DRN-3181068
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Information supplied by Morses has been presented to us as a loan table commencing with 
Loan 7. 
Morses has explained that it acquired some Shopacheck financial services accounts. It said 
that it only acquired open accounts at the point of acquisition in March 2014. In Mr Ms 
circumstances, Morses appears to be saying that loans 1 to 6 are loans about which it does 
not hold information and were most likely closed, settled or sold before March 2014. So, 
loans 1 to 6 likely are accounts which remain the responsibility of Welcome Finance now in 
administration with KPMG. 
Morses does take responsibility for Loan 7, and its confirmed that Loans 8 to 14 were sold to 
Mr M by Morses. 
Loan 
No:Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Weekly 
Repayment
7 20/01/2015 04/12/2015 100 £794.00 £11.12
8 09/12/2015 14/06/2016 33 £500.00 £25.00
9 14/06/2016 22/12/2016 33 £500.00 £25.00
10 22/12/2016 10/08/2017 33 £500.00 £25.00
11 10/08/2017 26/04/2018 33 £500.00 £25.00
12 26/04/2018 19/12/2018 33 £700.00 £35.00
13 19/12/2018 20/08/2019 33 £705.00 £35.25
14 20/08/2019 01/06/2020 33 £800.00 £40.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should put things 
right for Mr M from loan 10. Morses agreed that it ought not to have lent to Mr M in relation to 
loans 12 to 14, but it disputes loans 10 and 11.
This resolution outcome  loans 12 to 14  was sent to Mr Ms representative. It has 
acknowledged receiving it but has not come back to give us Mr Ms view on it. Morses has 
requested that this be reviewed by an ombudsman and so the complaint remained 
unresolved and was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator thought that this applied 
to Mr Ms circumstances from loan 10 and Ill come back to this later in the decision.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and have explained why below.
Neither Morses nor Mr M have been able to supply us with any information about the loans 
approved for Mr M before loan 7. And so, Im not able to make any finding on those but the 
fact that there were several loans in the lead up to approving loan 7 (£794 loan over 100 
weeks  almost two years) is relevant when considering Mr Ms complaint. In my view 
Morses would have been aware of these earlier credit commitments.  
Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 7 to 9. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Morses. 
So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 10 to 14 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. And Morses has agreed with our adjudicators 
resolution outcome for loans 12 to 14 and therefore they are not in dispute. That means that 
my decision need only be about loans 10 and 11 as they appear to be the ones about which 
Morses disagree. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 10. I say 
this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for over two years and likely much 
longer than that as loans 1 to 6, although we dont have details, likely were approved 
in the year (or years) before the loan 7 approval in January 2015. The consecutive 
pattern had led Mr M to be constantly in debt for almost two years without any 
significant gaps in borrowing which should have been a concern to Morses; and
Mr Ms first loan that we know of was for almost £800 and loan 14 was for £800. And 
there had been an incremental increase in the intervening loan amounts as the years 
went by. Mr M had been indebted to Morses for a significant time.  
At this point  loan 10 - Morses ought to have known that Mr M was likely borrowing 
to meet an ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have 
been worsening. So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr Ms indebtedness was unsustainable. 
From loan 10 onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan a very short time after he 
settled his previous loan. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 14 was 
taken out over four years (likely longer) after Mr Ms first that we know of. And it was 
for a similar amount. Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. I think 
that Mr M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 10 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 10 to 14 (of which Morses has 
agreed about loans 12 to 14) and Morses should put things right. For completeness Ive 
included all the loans about which Morses should put things right into the next section.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 10, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr M loans 10 to 14 and ought to do as follows:
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 10 to 14 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ms credit 
file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman