DRN-1555104
complaint
Miss P says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about tow loans MYJAR provided to Miss P between May 2017 and 
October 2017. A summary of Miss Ps lending history, as evidenced by MYJAR, is as 
follows:  
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
106/05/2017 23/06/2017 6 £350.00 £98.37
213/10/2017 outstanding 6 £350.00 £100.58
 
 
Our adjudicator thought about Miss Ps complaint and felt MYJAR had lent to 
her responsibly, and so didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. Miss P disagreed on the basis that 
her credit report at the time showed she was already heavily in debt and had defaulted on 
several other outstanding short-term loans, so MYJAR shouldve obtained her credit report 
and decided not to lend to her. 
As Miss P disputed the initial assessment the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
why I think MYJARs checks were proportionate for Miss Ps loan
Miss Ps first loan was for £350.00 and as per the loan agreement her maximum monthly 
repayment during the term was £98.37. Ive seen a record of the information Miss P provided 
when she completed his loan application. Miss P said she had a monthly income of 
£1400.00 and monthly expenses of £595.00. So, after deducting her regular monthly 
outgoings this means she was left with a disposable income of £805.00. So, it looked like 
she had enough disposal income to make her payments under this loan agreement.
Miss Ps repaid her loan early and after around a three-month gap, she came back to 
MYJAR for a second loan. Miss Ps second loan was also for £350.00, but at this point she 
had declared that her income had increased to £1600.00. For this loan her maximum 
monthly repayment was £100.58. So, it still looked like this loan was affordable for her. 
Miss P has provided evidence that she had defaulted on repayments on short-term loans 
she had with other providers. Miss P also provided some bank statements to evidence her financial difficulties at the time. Therefore, Miss P says that MYJAR shouldn'tt have lent to 
her. Had MYJAR completed a full review of Miss Ps financial circumstances, I think this is 
something it ought to have uncovered. But, at this point in the lending relationship I think it 
was reasonable for MYJAR to have relied on what Miss P told it about her income and 
expenditure, and I think it was reasonable of MYJAR not to investigate Miss Ps 
circumstances any further at this point. 
It is of course possible that had Miss P taken further lending then MYJAR, as a reasonable 
lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering 
Miss P hadnt taken out any prior loans with MYJAR, I dont think it had yet reached the 
stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this information or 
enquiring into her wider financial circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence or other information that MYJAR collected at the time of her 
loan applications that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Miss P 
mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Miss Ps 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment MYJAR carried out 
for Miss Ps loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Miss P in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman