DRN-3644366
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) failed to protect him from 
falling victim to an investment scam.   
What happened
The particulars of this case are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key events and reasoning behind my decision. This is not a 
discourtesy to Mr S or Virgin Money; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
In summary, Mr S was persuaded into investing approximately £328,000 with what he 
believed at the time to be a legitimate cryptocurrency trading platform. As part of the 
scheme, he built up a working relationship with an agent of this outfit. For the purposes of 
this decision, Ill refer to the supposed platform as B and the agent as MD. 
Between May and June 2021, Mr S made a series of online payments from his Virgin Money 
account with the purpose of funding his wallet with B. The funds paid from Virgin Money first 
went to the cryptocurrency exchange business Binance. Mr S held an account with Binance 
which received the payments and then subsequently converted the fiat currency to crypto. 
Mr S then permitted the transfer of the crypto from Binance to what he thought was a trading 
account held with B. 
However, B and MD turned out to be fraudulent. So, what had in fact happened was the 
money was sent to fraudsters who never actually traded Mr Ss holdings at all. The end 
result was that Mr S irretrievably lost all that he had paid out of his Virgin Money account.
Virgin Money refused to reimburse Mr S, explaining that it had provided warnings and asked 
questions of some of the initial payments to Binance  but Mr S had provided assurances 
that everything was OK. It also claimed that Mr Ss loss actually occurred with Binance and 
not the bank. Virgin Money maintained this position when Mr S raised a complaint. 
Upon bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators concluded that Virgin 
Money should not be held responsible for what happened. Mr S disagrees, submitting that 
Virgin Money ought to have taken further steps to protect his account  he doesnt think the 
bank went far enough to warn him against the risk of fraud. 
Because Mr S is not in agreement, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to Binance using 
his Virgin Money account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from that platform). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Virgin Money.
The starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by consumers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. However, Ive considered whether 
Virgin Money should have done more to prevent Mr S from falling victim to this scam, as 
there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer or series of payments. For example, on 
account of them being particularly out of character or suspicious.
In keeping with this, Virgin Money did carry out precautionary measures with the first two 
payments Mr S made, which totalled around £7,500. The first of which took place on            
5 May 2021, which Virgin Money blocked pending further enquiry. The bank requested to 
speak to Mr S where it then asked a host of questions about the intended purpose of the 
payment, which it could see was instructed to go to Binance. Ive reviewed a recording of 
this conversation, whereby its clear Virgin Money warned Mr S that there is a high risk of 
fraud and scams connected with cryptocurrency investments. Bank staff expressly asked if 
anybody had asked him to make the payment  to which Mr S assuredly said that they 
hadnt and that he was paying the account he held with Binance. 
Virgin Money also asked if Mr S had checked the FCA website to see if the business he was 
investing with was genuine, to which he said that he knew Binance was legitimate and one 
of the largest exchange platforms in the world. Mr S went on to confirm that everything was 
genuine and, despite there being a natural gateway to, did not mention B or MD. 
Yet, we know Mr Ss answers were not strictly true. MD not only introduced the investment 
opportunity, but also provided step by step guidance on how to complete the transactions. 
Mr S has said throughout that he trusted MD and had built up a working relationship with 
him. This was to the extent that at one point this individual was permitted remote access of 
Mr Ss computer, where he could control trades involving huge sums. 
I acknowledge that Mr S may not have appreciated the questions he was being asked in 
respect of a third-party presence. He says  and I accept  that he may not have paid due 
regard to the importance of this enquiry by the bank. Still, I cannot reasonably say that this is 
the fault of Virgin Money. It was by no means an overly complicated line of questioning, and 
Mr S was undoubtedly aware at that point that MD was frequently promoting the investment. 
Indeed, within his submission to this service, Mr S concedes that asking him to make the 
payment is precisely what MD was doing.  
Had Mr S made bank staff aware that the investment was being made as a result of the 
coaching of a supposed broker or mentor, Im satisfied Virgin Money would have likely 
recognised the hallmarks of a scam, and asked further questions which could have 
unraveled it, thereby preventing the loss from the very first payment. 
There were subsequent calls Virgin Money shared with Mr S about the second disputed 
transaction in May 2021. Once more, Mr S was notified that the bank wanted to know more 
about the intended payment to Binance. He spoke to the fraud team and was told that the 
transaction had been flagged as high risk. 
Virgin Money asked what the reason for the payment was for, alongside repeating the query 
about the presence of a third party. Again, Mr S did not disclose MD or B. He spoke only of 
Binance, the fact that he was satisfied his account there was safe and that he had no 
concerns about the payment. In light of this, Im satisfied Mr S was given ample opportunity 
to inform Virgin Money that he was being coached into making these first two payments. Or, 
at the very least, notify the bank that he was not just intending to send funds to Binance 
alone  which might have sparked further questioning in itself. I do consider that with the second payment, Virgin Money could have gone further with its 
probing into the purpose of paying Binance again. It seems to me that this was a relatively 
short call with the fraud department and there was scope to find out more about Mr Ss 
intentions. But, without a doubt, Mr S not being forthcoming with information (even when 
questioned) meant the bank were stripped of crucial insight into what was really happening. 
To that end, even if bank staff had questioned matters further, I cannot safely say that Mr S 
would have revealed that he was trading with B or the encouragement from MD. 
Virgin Money took the decision not to flag any of the further payments given the prior 
assurances Mr S had given about Binance and his plans to deposit money there. Whether 
this is fair or not, I am not persuaded that interventions with any of the later transactions 
would have unearthed the scam. By his own admission, Mr S has said that he didnt take the 
calls from Virgin Money seriously and that he trusted MD to act in his best interests. He 
referred to him as a mentor and the evidence reinforces Mr Ss concession that he placed a 
great degree of confidence in what he was being told to do. For example, Mr S has 
explained that he invested further, despite being told by MD and B that he had suffered 
significant losses that far outweighed what he had already paid in. MD was able to convince 
him that he could recover if he deposited more; Mr S was being manipulated into thinking he 
could recoup the heavy losses incurred, seemingly creating a sense of heedlessness. 
On these grounds, its my judgment that Mr S would have proceeded with the payments 
even if Virgin Money had questioned him on other occasions, or taken more steps to try and 
protect him. Mr S has said he had no reason to be suspicious about what he was doing and 
has demonstrated that, when asked, he gave the strong impression that these payments 
were being made only through his own volition.    
Consequently, despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself in having lost 
a lot of money, Im not persuaded Virgin Money taking different action would have prevented 
the payments being made or the loss that ensued. It follows that I do not require Virgin 
Money to do anything beyond what it has already for this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman