DRN-3087608
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have refused to
indemnify her following a car accident. She is also unhappy with the service provided to her.  
What happened
Miss B insured her car with Admiral. The policy covered Miss B with no named drivers. In
July 2016 Admiral were notified by a third party that Miss Bs car was involved in an accident
resulting in damage and personal injury. The third party provided video footage of Miss Bs
car leaving the scene and an audio recording of a conversation between the driver and the
third party. Miss Bs car was fitted with telematics (a black box) which recorded her car being
in the location at the time of the accident.
Admiral contacted Miss B who said she was not involved in the accident and had never been
to the location. Miss B did not make a claim on the policy herself. She then told Admiral that
her nephew may have driven her car but refused to provide his details.
Admiral inspected Miss Bs car and found no relevant damage but noted that the damage to
the third partys car was light. In November 2016 Miss B contacted Admiral to advise that her
car had been scrapped and her policy was therefore cancelled.
Miss B met with Admirals investigator in March 2017. She accepted that she may have been
to the area but denied being involved in the accident. She confirmed that her nephew had
used her car once, but not on the day of the accident so did not wish to provide his details.
Admiral accepted liability in August 2016. They then wrote to Miss B on three occasions
saying that they were refusing to indemnify her because she had breached a condition of her
policy. Miss B was asked to sign a form allowing Admiral to deal with the claim on her behalf
and agreeing to indemnify them against costs. Miss B did not sign, but Admiral continued to
deal with the claim.
Miss B then received notification in May 2020 that Admiral dealt with the claim under the
Road Traffic Act and that they were looking to recover £11,575.63 from her.
Miss B complained to Admiral saying that she had not been kept informed of the progress of
her case and that she was being asked to cover the cost of the claim. Admiral agreed that
there were times when Miss B had received poor communication and offered her £50
compensation. They said that Miss B had breached General Condition 2 of her policy which
related to failing to provide information. They did not provide details of how Miss B had
breached this condition. They said that Miss B had been properly informed that they would
be seeking recovery from her.
Miss B did not accept Admirals response to her complaint and brought the matter to us. She
said that she co-operated with Admiral and provided all the information requested. She said
Admiral had no right to refuse indemnity. She said she had not been kept updated during the
claim and communication had been poor. She did not think she had been treated fairly.
Our investigator looked into the matter and initially upheld the complaint as Admiral did not
provide the information requested. Admiral then sent us additional information and said that
Miss B had breached her policy conditions by failing to co-operate with their investigator and
engineer, and by continuing to deny being at the scene, despite the evidence. They said she
also failed to provide details of her nephew. Our investigator looked at the matter again and
said he thought that Miss B had co-operated with the investigator and engineer but failed to
provide all the information that Admiral required, namely her nephews details. Miss B was
not happy with this as she said that she had co-operated and that her nephew was not
driving the car and so there was no need to provide his details. She requested the matter be
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2021. I said:
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, or withdraws indemnity, my role is to see if I think its
acted fairly. When doing so Ill look at the circumstances, policy terms and industry
guidelines such as ICOBS (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook) when coming to my
decision.
Admiral say that they refused indemnity because Miss B breached General Condition 2 of
her policy which says If you or your car are involved in any type of claim, accident or loss
regardless of fault, you must tell us about it within 48 hours. It goes on to say that you must
give us all the information about the claim that we need and that Failure to comply with the
above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy being cancelled. Cover will
only be provided if the policyholder keeps to the conditions of the policy.
It is clear under the policy that Admiral are entitled to refuse indemnity if they can show that
Miss B was in breach of General Condition 2. So, I need to consider whether Miss B
breached her policy and, if so, whether it was fair for Admiral to refuse to indemnify her.
I have seen copies of letters sent to Miss B dated 29 June 2017 and 5 July 2017. There was
also an earlier letter dated 21 December 2016 suggesting a breach of General Condition 9,
but Admiral do not now seem to be relying on this, so I have not considered it further. The
letters in June and July 2017 refer to a breach of General Condition 2, but do not say in what
way Miss B breached the condition. Admiral have since told this service that the breach
relates to Miss Bs refusal to co-operate. Admiral say that Miss B would not allow them to
send out their engineer or investigator. However, Miss B made her car available to be
inspected in September 2016, and I have seen the engineers report confirming this. There is
some suggestion in Admirals case notes that Miss B was difficult to contact but she met with
the investigator in March 2017 and provided a statement. Again, I have seen a copy of this. I
am therefore satisfied that Miss B did co-operate with Admiral in this respect.
Admiral also say that Miss B failed to co-operate by continuing to dispute being at the scene
of the accident despite the evidence against her. Admiral say the black box placed the car at
the location. I havent seen this evidence, but I have viewed three short video clips taken at
the scene. They clearly show the number plate of Miss Bs car. There is also a sound
recording of a female voice denying that her car caused any damage. It is not my role to
determine liability for the accident, but to consider whether Admiral have acted fairly. I dont
think it was unreasonable for them to conclude that Miss Bs car was involved in the
accident. However, it does not follow that she is required to accept that she was there. The
policy allows Admiral to take over and deal with a claim as they see fit. This is what they did,
and I think it was reasonable for them to do so in the circumstances.
Finally, Admiral say that Miss B failed to provide them with all the information they needed to
deal with the claim, namely details of her nephew. Miss B says that she only told the
investigator that he had driven the car because she felt under pressure. She said that hewas not the driver on the day of the accident and there was therefore no need to provide his
details. However, Admirals call notes in December 2016 suggest that Miss B had said prior
to her interview with the investigator that her nephew had driven the car, so the interview
was not the first time this had been mentioned. I also note that Miss B did not raise any
complaint with Admiral about the investigators behaviour at the time.
Miss Bs nephews details were important because Miss B said that he may have driven her
car, and she continued to deny being involved herself. She also said that the car was not
stolen and that she had the only keys. If Miss B wasnt involved, someone else must have
been driving the car. Ive looked at Miss Bs policy and it only covers her to drive the car.
This would not prevent someone else driving the car under their own insurance policy, but it
would mean that Admiral might not be responsible for dealing with the claim. I think it was
therefore reasonable for Admiral to expect Miss B to provide her nephews details when she
told them in December 2016 that he may have been driving. I think that by refusing to
provide them, Miss B was in breach of her policy.
However, even if an insurer can show that a customer has breached a term of their policy,
they will also need to show that theyve been prejudiced by the breach for us to say that
refusal of indemnity is fair.
From looking at Admirals case notes and the letters sent to Miss B, it seems likely that
Admiral took the decision to refuse indemnity under General Condition 2 sometime around
June 2017. This was after they accepted liability in August 2016. It was also after Miss B had
told Admirals investigator that her nephew was not driving the car on the day of the
accident. I also note that one of the videos taken by the third party at the time of the accident
includes a female voice. From what is said, they appear to be the owner/driver of the other
car. I cannot say whose voice this is, but I think it unlikely to be that of Miss Bs nephew. I
havent seen the third partys account of the accident, but Admiral will no doubt be aware of
whether the third party alleges the driver to be male or female. In the circumstances, I dont
think that Admiral were prejudiced by Miss B failing to provide her nephews details as there
was no evidence to suggest he was driving the car on the day of the accident.
I also think that communication with Miss B about indemnity could have been much clearer.
Admirals first letter dated 21 December 2016 says that they are refusing indemnity for a
breach of General Condition 9. There is no explanation given to say in what way the
condition had been breached. I also havent seen any correspondence to say that this
alleged breach was withdrawn although Miss B did telephone Admiral on the day she
received the letter. Admirals case notes of the call dont mention indemnity so I can only
assume this was not discussed.
I note that the letter sent to Miss B dated 29 June 2017 says that as she has not responded
to previous requests they are now withdrawing indemnity. It is not clear to me what these
previous requests were. However, the letter also says that it contains the outline of their
decision and the evidence relied upon. No such information was contained within the letter.
The letters of 29 June and 5 July 2017 also request that Miss B sign a consent and
indemnity form. The letter says that if she does not sign they will take no part in the
settlement of the claim although they will ultimately be obliged under the Road Traffic Act
1988 to pay the third partys claim. They would then seek recovery from Miss B. Miss B did
not sign but Admiral continued to deal with the claim and negotiate with the third party
without informing Miss B of this. I think it would have been reasonable to expect Admiral to
have kept Miss B informed.
Ive also listened to telephone calls with Miss B on 26 June 2017 and on three occasions in
April 2018. No mention of indemnity was made in any of the calls. On 26 June 2017 Miss B
was advised that Admiral had accepted liability on a without prejudice basis and the claimwas being settled. She was told by the call handler So theres nothing that you have to pay
with regards to this one. We pick up the total cost of this claim on this one, so theres nothing
for you to physically pay, but we will deal with them, settle their claim, as quickly and as
cheaply as possible. This was three days before she was sent a letter withdrawing
indemnity. I think it would have been fair for Admiral to have discussed matters with her then
with a view to trying to resolve the outstanding issues, particularly as its communications
about Miss Bs indemnity were very confused.
The three calls made in April 2018 relate to Miss B complaining she was not kept informed of
the progress of the claim. During the call on the 11 April 2018 the call handler explained that
matters were still being dealt with and said It would only be once the claim had actually
been properly closed and all elements settled, then would a letter come out to you to confirm
that the claim was now closed. In the call on 12 April 2018 the call handler made similar
comments saying We are just in negotiations with the other party and as soon as thats
finalised then well update you to advise that the claim is closed. There was mention that
offers had been made to the third party and Miss B said that she had paid her insurance for
the whole year and she expected Admiral to get this sorted. The call handler replied Yes
and we are. At the end of the day thats what you pay your insurance for and thats why we
are dealing with the claim. However, Admiral made no mention of indemnity during these
calls and Miss B clearly thought she was just waiting for Admiral to settle the claim and close
the case. I think it would have been reasonable to expect Admiral to have made it clear that
they would be looking to her to recover their costs once the case had settled.
In all the circumstances, I dont think it fair for Admiral to have withdrawn indemnity.
Miss B also complains that she was not kept up to date with the progress of her claim. She
says that she asked Admiral not to communicate by email as she had limited access, but
that they continued to do so. I cant see a record of this request or what communication was
sent by email, but Miss B did not hear from Admiral between July 2017 and April 2018 when
she telephoned to ask about progress. I appreciate that claims can take time to settle, but
this claim was open for over three years. I accept that there may seem little point making
contact when there was nothing to report, but I think it fair that customers are kept up to date
with the progress of their claim. However, I also take into account the fact that Miss B was
not always forthcoming with information, and I can see from Admirals case notes that she
was at times difficult to contact and communicate with.
Admiral accept that there have been some problems with communication and offered Miss B
£50 compensation. After her complaint they also established a system of regular reporting to 
her. In all the circumstances, I think the £50 compensation already offered by Admiral is fair
and I dont intend to make an additional award.
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Admiral nor Miss B responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. My final decision and reasoning are therefore the same as in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decisionI uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide Miss B 
with indemnity for the accident. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2021. 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman