DRN-2063556
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Financial Services Limited delayed a refund to his account,
and failed to reply when he asked for an explanation of what had gone wrong.
What happened
Mr D was due a refund from a purchase he made on his card. The merchant sent the money
to Creation on 26 April 2019. Mr D didnt get it, and he repeatedly chased this up with
Creation. Creation told Mr D on 15 May that his refund had been processed and it would
appear on his account within three to five working days. But Mr D didnt get the refund until
31 May, which he said was 35 days after he said he shouldve received it.
Mr D complained to Creation about this. Creation didnt respond to Mr Ds complaint until
March 2020, after he brought his complaint to us. It said then that the merchant had put the
money onto his old, cancelled card in April. The refund remained on his old card until 29 May
2019, when Creation moved it onto the new card. It said it was sorry about that. Creation
worked out the statutory interest on the refund of £110, which it said was £2.14. It said it
would pay him £5.
Mr D wasnt happy. He said he should be paid more compensation, because hed had to pay
a much higher credit card bill on 28 May 2019, because of Creations delays. He said hed
spent a lot of time chasing Creation, writing emails and making calls about this complaint,
and he thought Creation should compensate him for that.
Creation thought it had done the right thing. It said that if a customer has funds which are
withheld from them, it will pay 8% statutory interest on those funds. It had done that, and
rounded this up to £5.00 for Mr D. And it said that if he was now complaining about chasing
the refund, and emails not being acknowledged, then that would be a new complaint as it
hadnt had the chance to investigate this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Creation had put the
money onto Mr Cs old account on 26 April 2019. Creation shouldve realised that it had put
this money onto a cancelled card. But Mr D hadnt been able to show us that paying a higher
credit card bill while he was waiting for the refund had caused him financial difficulties. And
Creation had paid 8% interest on the money for the time it was missing. Our investigator
thought Creation had resolved the complaint fairly.
Mr D didnt agree. He said it had taken Creation ten months to respond to his complaint. It
was supposed to do that within 8 weeks. He said it was unreasonable to expect him to be
able to prove that he was in financial hardship at the time, because it was now so long ago.
He said hed had to do a lot of work to get Creations mistake put right. And hed even
pointed out on 23 April, before the payment was made, that there was a risk of the money
being paid onto his cancelled card. He thought our service would usually make an award for
this. He summarised his complaint again, and expressed great surprise at it not being
upheld. He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator was right that our service cant look at a standalone complaint about 
how a business has handled a complaint. Creation said that if Mr D was making that 
standalone complaint now, it should have time to consider this separately, as a new 
complaint.
But I dont think Mr D is making a new complaint now about the length of time this 
has taken to resolve. I think he made one complaint, in May 2019, about the length of 
time that it had taken Creation to get his money to him, and why Creation was taking 
so long to respond on that. He persisted with this complaint, raising it repeatedly with 
Creation, and then bringing it to our service in July 2019. Its taken Creation until 
March 2020 to provide a response telling Mr D what went wrong, and complying with 
what it says is its obligation to pay statutory interest. I dont think Im obliged by the 
rules of our service to disregard the delay in resolving this issue when Im 
considering Mr Ds complaint.
The refund was processed by the merchant on 26 April. Creation eventually put Mr 
Ds refund in the right account on 31 May. It seems likely that Mr D had two 
statements in the intervening time, and one of those statements included the money 
hed paid for his purchase, which he was expecting to have refunded. He says he 
paid this to Creation, because the refund hadnt arrived. He also told us that he didnt 
have evidence now of the hardship this caused.
I havent seen anything to demonstrate that Mr D suffered financial hardship, as our 
service understands that. An example of financial hardship would be if someone cant 
meet priority bills, like rent and utilities, or cant pay for food. But I dont think its 
necessary for Mr D to show financial hardship in order for me to make an award in 
this case.
I do think Mr D was inconvenienced by needing to pay for a purchase hed already 
returned, and should already have been refunded for. I also think that Mr D has, as 
he said, put in some effort, first in trying to warn Creation that his money might be 
refunded onto a cancelled card, then trying to get his refund, then trying to find out 
what had actually gone wrong. That has also inconvenienced him. The length of time 
this has taken provides a further inconvenience.
I dont think Creations offer of £5 makes up for this. I think that Creation should pay 
Mr D a total of £100 in compensation. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. Creation can include its offer of £5 in that total, if it has 
already paid it.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr D replied to accept my provisional decision. Creation replied to disagree. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation replied to say that it didnt agree that Mr D had put in some effort, first in trying to 
warn Creation that his money might be refunded onto a cancelled card, then trying to get his 
refund, then trying to find out what had actually gone wrong. Creation said it only had 
enquiries from Mr D starting from 26 April 2019. Mr D had then notified it that the payment 
had been made onto the old card on 15 May, and Creation thought that this matter had been 
resolved on 31 May, when it moved the money onto his new card. It said it wanted us to 
make sure we werent taking into account communications about another, separate 
complaint that Mr D made, when looking at this issue. 
With Mr Ds permission, we sent Creation the emails between it and Mr D, that hed shared 
with us. Those are all about this complaint. 
Creation now accepts it failed to action Mr Ds complaint about the delayed refund on 3 
June. It could see a response to a different complaint had been issued, and assumed that 
response dealt with the issue Mr D had raised. I think Mr D was clear on 3 June what he was 
complaining about, and this was a mistake by Creation. 
But Creation said it still thought that all the correspondence fell within the timescale it had 
previously highlighted, except this complaint on 3 June. I dont think thats quite right either. 
Mr D started emailing Creation on 23 April, when he said a refund had been made on 5 April, 
and suggested the payment might have gone back onto a previous card. Creation replied on 
26 April, to say it hadnt received the refund. Mr D asked about his refund again on 7 May. 
Creation said on 15 May it would move this to the new card. But it didnt. Mr D didnt get his 
refund onto his existing card until 31 May. And Creation now accepts it didnt respond to his 
complaint about this until the case was taken up by our service. 
So I still think that Mr D put in some effort, first in trying to warn Creation that his money 
might be refunded onto a cancelled card, then trying to get his refund, then trying to find out 
what had actually gone wrong. And I still think the award I proposed in my provisional 
decision is appropriate. Ill now make that award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited must pay Mr D £100. It can 
include the £5 it offered in that total, if it has already paid it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman