DRN-3062869
The complaint
Mr B complains about the poor service and delays caused by Aviva Insurance Limited when
he needed to make a claim under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr B had an existing home emergency policy with Aviva which covered an annual boiler
service, and any potential breakdown issues.
In July 2020, Aviva were due to complete the annual boiler service, but when the engineer
looked at the boiler, he told Mr B the heat exchange in the boiler was leaking so he couldnt
complete the service. He also said the boiler needed replacing urgently. Mr B asked the
engineer if this would be covered under his policy and was told it only covered repair not
replacement.
Mr B arranged for quotes from several engineers who explained that the fault was
dangerous, and in their opinion needed replacing quickly. So Mr B went ahead with an
engineer who Ill call W. W replaced the boiler and said they felt Mr Bs existing boiler hadnt
been serviced properly in the last few years which may have caused the fault and could
have had serious consequences had it not been replaced. So Mr B called Aviva to make a
complaint.
Aviva upheld Mr Bs complaint. They said they couldnt confirm what the engineer had told
Mr B at the time, however, they said he would have been covered for a replacement boiler
under his policy and they should have contacted him when they received the engineers
report. So they offered him £200 in compensation.
Mr B didnt think this was fair given how much he paid for his annual premium. So Aviva
increased their offer to £300 compensation and agreed to cover the cost of the replacement
boiler  but not installation as this wasnt covered under the policy. Mr B sent Aviva the
invoice hed received from the engineer, but Aviva werent happy with this as they said it
didnt contain the breakdown they wanted.
Mr B tried to get the information from W that Aviva wanted but wasnt able to do so. He
asked Aviva to try and contact W themselves so they could settle his claim, and he also
offered to accept a lower figure than hed paid to resolve the issue. Aviva still wouldnt
accept this so Mr B asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She felt the £300
compensation offered by Aviva was fair, but she felt the invoice Mr B had given them
showed a sufficient breakdown of the costs for materials and installation. So she felt Aviva
should refund the materials costs.
Aviva didnt agree. They said the material cost could include items which werent covered by
the policy so in May 2021 they said theyd contact W directly for a breakdown of the
materials on the invoice. In early June, Aviva said they hadnt been able to contact W for the
breakdown but still didnt agree with the investigators recommendation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision on 21 September 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it but for different reasons to our investigator. Ill
explain why.
Theres no dispute here that Aviva made a mistake and should have told Mr B that he had
cover under his policy for a replacement boiler should his not be repairable. So what I need
to decide is whether or not Aviva have acted fairly in resolving their mistake and putting Mr B
in the position he would have been had this not happened.
Aviva have told us they were prepared to cover the cost of a replacement boiler, but the
invoice Mr B has provided doesnt show give a breakdown in the materials section and they
arent prepared to pay for additional items which arent covered under the policy. Mr B has
said he has tried to get the breakdown Aviva wanted but he wasnt able to get this. Ive also
seen he told Aviva that he was prepared to settle the claim for £2,250 to resolve the matter
quickly  which Aviva also declined.
Looking at the invoice from W Ive seen it provides a breakdown of Materials £2,750 and
Labour £1,000 but doesnt give any more information. Ive also looked at Mr Bs policy
which says If your boiler is beyond economic repair, well replace it. Youll just need to pay
us for installation if its over 7 years old. Aviva has said under this definition the policy would
only cover a replacement boiler as it came in the box and all other replacement parts such
as the timer would be included as part of the installation.
But I dont think this is fair. I say this because Ive looked at the terms and conditions of
Mr Bs policy and Ive seen under the Policy Coverage  Gas Central Heating Breakdown
section it says under the cover definitions that the boiler includes the isolation valve, all
manufacturers fitted components within the boiler together with the pump, motorised valves,
thermostat, timer, temperature and pressure controls, chimney structure/flue and expansion
cistern.
Ive also looked at the section for Beyond Economical Repair and Ive seen it says Aviva
will source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation
costs. However, I havent seen any evidence that the parts listed in the definition as being
included as part of the boiler would then become part of the installation so Im persuaded
these other items should have been included as part of the replacement boiler.
I also havent seen the term Installation defined in the policy wording and the generally
accepted definition of the term Installation is the act of putting something in place so that it
is ready for use. And within the policy this seems to imply the labour involved to fit the boiler
 not that parts may or may not be included as part of the installation - which in this case
Mr B understood and didnt ask for as part of his claim costs.
I recognise Aviva are unhappy with the total cost for materials as they want a more detailed
breakdown. However Ive looked online at replacement costs and Ive seen that the
replacement for parts such as the boiler, timer and valves for example would be around the
figure W has invoiced as materials. The information available online also says that
installation costs for this boiler would be around £1,000  which is what W charged - so I
havent seen any evidence that leads me to believe Mr B was charged more than theindustry expectation for this type of boiler.
I acknowledge that Aviva may have been able to source this more cheaply. However, Mr B
wouldnt have had find his own engineer had Avivas engineer not given him incorrect
information or if Aviva had contacted Mr B directly once theyd received the engineers report
as they should have done inline with their own process.
As Mr B was told by all the engineers that looked at the boiler  including Avivas own
engineer - that it was unsafe and should be replaced as soon as possible he tried to mitigate
and further damage as soon as possible he went with the engineer that could provide the
quickest service. And in this case, if he hadnt called Aviva to make a complaint, its likely he
still wouldnt have been aware he had cover for this under his policy.
Throughout the claim process Ive seen that Mr B has tried to provide Aviva with the
information they required but was unable to do so. Aviva themselves have also been unable
to obtain the breakdown for materials when they tried several months later. So I dont think
its reasonable for Aviva to continue to withhold reimbursement costs.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied the costs are broadly inline with what Id expect for a
replacement boiler of this make and model and the other linked parts to the boiler which
would have put Mr B in the position he would have been  such as the timer. So I think Aviva
should reimburse Mr B the £2750 hes already paid for the replacement boiler.
Ive seen that Aviva have offered Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused, but under the circumstances I dont think this is enough. I say this
because Mr B felt he had no option to source his own replacement boiler, so his family had
heating and hot water. Had he been given the correct information by Aviva or their engineer,
Mr B wouldnt have had to spend time arranging for quotes and tradesmen to attend his
property as Aviva should have done this themselves.
Then when Mr B did arrange for a replacement boiler, it was only at the point Mr B made a
complaint about the poor servicing of his boiler that he was made aware he shouldnt have
had to do this. Mr B also spent several months providing Aviva with the information they
wanted and trying to request a breakdown for material costs which Aviva themselves could
have attempted as they tried to nearly a year after Mr B had made his complaint.
Looking at the evidence from both parties, Ive seen that Mr B repeatedly tried to engage
with Aviva by phone and email, becoming increasingly frustrated with their responses. He
also explained he was happy to settle at a lower amount because of the substantial financial
outlay hed made. However, throughout the time Mr B has been trying to resolve his claim, I
havent seen any evidence that Aviva attempted to assist him or come to any interim
resolution.
Aviva repeatedly said they wanted a breakdown of the costs  which wasnt an
unreasonable request initially  however, they would have been able to source costs for a
replacement boiler and could have offered Mr B at least a partial settlement for his claim
rather than refuse to engage with any reimbursement for the last year despite Mr Bs outlay
being caused by them. So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Aviva treated Mr B fairly or
reasonably and I think they should have done more to try and resolve the claim rather than
leave it for Mr B to resolve it.
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think Aviva have dealt with Mr Bs claim fairly
and reasonably. To put things right I am intending to say Aviva should reimburse Mr B the£2,750 he has paid out for the replacement boiler plus 8% simple interest from the date he
paid the invoice to the date of settlement. This is because Mr B should have had his claim
settled when hed reasonably attempted to obtain the information Aviva wanted but wasnt
able to do so and his claim should have been settled at this time.
Its also clear Avivas handling of Mr Bs claim has caused him distress and inconvenience
so I think Aviva should increase their offer of compensation from £300 to £450 to address
this.
I invited Mr B and Aviva to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my provisional decision. Aviva responded to say they had nothing 
further to add. Mr B also responded to say he was happy with the decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both Mr B and Aviva responded to say they accepted my decision 
and had nothing further to add, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, Aviva Insurance 
Limited must do the following: 
Reimburse Mr B the £2,750 costs hes incurred plus 8% simple interest from the date 
he paid this to the date of settlement;
Pay Mr B £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman