DRN-3025241
The complaint
Mrs W says TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
 Mrs W took out a guarantor loan from TFS in August 2018. It was for £15,000 over 60 
months. The monthly repayment was £453.38 and the total repayable was £27,202.50
Mrs W says the lender failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment and had it 
done so it would not have lent to her.
.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, the 
loan shouldnt have been given as it increased and prolonged Mrs Ws overall indebtedness 
and it was unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
TFS disagreed saying with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mrs W. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mrs W could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs W. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mrs W, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ws loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan
in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mrs W before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income and her monthly living costs. It verified her income using payslips and other 
documentation. It added a buffer to her declared expenses. It checked her credit file to 
understand her credit history and her existing credit commitments. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS 
concluded Mrs W would have monthly disposable income of £95 after clearing the debts she 
was consolidating  or £401 if the cost buffer was taken into account - and so the loan was 
affordable.
I am not wholly persuaded that these checks were proportionate. Mrs W was applying to
borrow a significant amount of money from TFS. She was entering into a long-term
commitment to repay a significant sum (£27,202.50) and would need to be able to make her 
monthly repayments sustainably for five years. So I would expect that TFS would want to 
gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her  rather than relying solely on Mrs Ws 
disclosures for certain items, as it did for her living expenses.
But I wont comment further on this because, like our investigator, I dont think TFS made a
fair lending decision based on the independent information it did gather. Ill explain why.
The results from TFSs credit check showed Mrs W was most likely having problems
managing her money. Her total unsecured debt totalled £24,562 and she had a number of 
credit cards close to their limit. She also had three current accounts where she was using 
the overdraft facilities, again at close to the limits.
Mrs W was taking out the loan to repay two loans and £2000 from one her credit card 
balances. But this still left her with a significant number of credit commitments  and after 
deducting the monthly repayments of the debt she was clearing and adding in the cost of this 
loan she would have monthly credit commitments of approximately £1025. This was a 
significant proportion of her monthly income and I think should have led TFS to be 
concerned that this loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable. It argues that its loan was reducing Mrs Ws monthly repayments, but its not fair or 
reasonable to only consider the monthly position and ignore the longer-term impact of its 
lending  nor is it in line with regulatory guidelines. The loan was prolonging Mrs Ws 
indebtedness. Plus, TFS could see from Mrs Ws credit file that shed had back-to-back 
loans that she repaid before term from October 2014 to the time of her application. So I think 
it should have been concerned that she had previously borrowed solely to repay debt and 
yet had not managed, in nearly four years, to get out from under her debt. 
I think from this information in the round TFS ought to have realised there was a high risk
Mrs W would be unable to sustainably repay her loan  so without borrowing to repay or
suffering another adverse consequence. And this was what it needed to check to meet its
obligations, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
In response to the investigators view TFS said there is no evidence Mrs W was struggling to 
maintain her living expenses but in addition to the indicators of financial duress Ive set out 
above, she discussed on one of the application calls that shed needed all the credit cards to 
help make ends meets. It also asked if there is evidence that Mrs W had to borrow to repay 
this loan, but this isnt something needed to reach a fair decision. I say this as I am 
assessing whether TFS met its obligations as a responsible lender at the time it made its 
lending decision  how Mrs W went on to manage the loan could vary for a number of 
reasons unrelated to what the lender did at the point of application. 
It follows I think TFS was wrong to lend to Mrs W. 
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way
towards Mrs W.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mrs W to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mrs W made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ws loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Ws loan account results in an outstanding capital balance TFS 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs W.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mrs W a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ws complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman