DRN-2348421
The complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her and the late Mr B 
two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI in 1999 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in one 
of the banks branches. In 2005 they took out a second PPI policy at around the same time 
as they applied for a further advance. Both policies gave them accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the cover.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I've made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided neither PPI policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
the 1999 sale
Mrs B says they would only purchase PPI if they were told that it was essential. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting but Halifax has provided Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
application form. On this they both signed a separate section confirming they wanted to 
take out PPI. They then both signed a separate PPI application form, answering a number 
of eligibility questions. I havent found anything on either form that I think could reasonably 
have led Mr and Mrs B to think the PPI was mandatory. I have thought carefully about 
Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how 
that might affect what she recalls.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs B agreed to take 
it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. I know Mrs B feels strongly that they didnt need it. But based on what shes told us 
about their circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mrs B says she was 
entitled to 12 months' full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, as was Mr B. But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 months. It also gave 
up to 24 months redundancy cover so would have allowed them to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment(s), giving increased financial stability at a difficult time whilst not 
working.
Mrs B said Mr B had a number of private pensions payable at the age of 50; she was a 
member of her employers pension scheme; they had endowment policies; and life 
insurance. But these products all cover different events, or provide in different 
circumstances so are not suitable alternative protection. They wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
Mrs B says they had savings held in an ISA, shares and premium bonds but the PPI would 
have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs. 
They were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the effects 
of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the 
PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s).
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B the clear and complete information they 
needed before deciding to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form 
and the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. I 
dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs B dont appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
the 2005 sale
In 2005 Mr and Mrs B bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan at around the time they took 
out a further advance on their mortgage. This offered life, critical illness and PPI. Whilst they 
also selected life and critical illness cover, this complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Again, I cant know what was said at the time of the sale and Halifax no longer has all the 
paperwork. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
Based on what we know about the banks sales process of this product at the time, I think 
its most likely Mr and Mrs B completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements 
of the cover they wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided 
samples of the documents it used when selling TMPP at this time. I cant find enough 
evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. 
And the bank has been able to provide a copy of the letter it sent Mr and Mrs B after the 
meeting. This starts Thank you for choosing our Total Mortgage Protection Plan which 
suggests to me it was presented to them as optional. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs B had a choice about PPI 
- and they opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to make sure it was suitable. For 
all the reasons set out above (Mrs B has confirmed they had the same employment 
benefits and other means) I think it was. I would add here that this policy paid out for a 
maximum of 12 months, not 24 like the previous policy. For this reason we asked for 
confirmation of their sick pay as from what Mrs B says they both had uncommonly 
generous employee benefits. I dont doubt that is her honest recollection but we are asking 
her to remember something from a long time ago. Mrs B is unable to provide any 
supporting documentation, which is understandable give how long ago the sale was. But I note she worked for a local authority  and from what we know they generally paid six 
months full pay and six months half pay for sickness. So without some supporting 
evidence I dont think I can fairly conclude that their sick pay meant they didnt have a need 
for the PPI. Plus it would always have paid out in addition to any work benefits.
Mr and Mrs B still had significant borrowings secured on their home. So the effects of not 
keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I again think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s). 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B the clear and complete information they 
needed before deciding to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was first made clear. But 
the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. And I 
dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs B dont appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B lost out because of any problems 
with either sale.
 
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman