DRN-3855691
The complaint
Ms T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC won't refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 24 November 2022, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both parties a chance to provide any further evidence and arguments before I issued my 
final decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below
In January 2021, Ms T was introduced by a colleague to a cryptocurrency investment 
scheme. She transferred two payments from her Lloyds account to this colleague. The first 
payment was of £4,020 and the second, ten days later, was of £8,000. Her colleague then 
purchased cryptocurrency and transferred it to the investment scheme in exchange for 
'packages', which were supposed to provide regular bonus payments. Later Ms T opened 
her own cryptocurrency account in order to receive withdrawals from the investment 
scheme.
Before investing, Ms T said that she checked online and could only see good reviews about 
the scheme. She also says that other members of the scheme successfully received money 
back and that she could see a daily bonus accruing in her account.
Lloyds spoke to Ms T about the payments in April 2021 (before she'd realised she'd been the 
victim of a scam) because she'd reported a different scam, involving a payment to the same 
payee. At that point she said that she'd purchased cryptocurrency, had possession of it and 
didn't have any concerns about the payments.
But, despite promises of regular returns, Ms T was only ever able to obtain one withdrawal 
from the investment scheme. When she subsequently asked to withdraw money she was 
met with excuses. Eventually the scheme disappeared entirely.
Ms T reported the matter to Lloyds but it said that it wouldn't refund the payments as they 
weren't covered by the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model "CRM 
Code" (which otherwise might require it to refund transactions made as a result of a scam) 
and it had provided her with a verbal scam warning before she made the first payment.
Ms T referred the matter to our service, but one of our investigators didn't uphold her 
complaint. They thought that even if the CRM Code did apply to the transactions, Lloyds 
were correct to decline the claim as Ms T should have realised that the rate of return on the 
investment was too good to be true. They also thought that the warning that Lloyds gave 
during the first call was sufficient and it couldn't have been expected to do anything further.
Ms T disagreed. She said that Lloyds failed to pick up on the transactions that debited her 
account as unusual and if it had asked her about the circumstances surrounding the 
payments the scam would have come to light and been prevented.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What I've provisionally decided - and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to hear that Ms T has lost money here, particularly considering the difficult 
circumstances her family finds themselves in. But I don't think Lloyds has made a mistake by 
declining to refund her money. I'll explain why.
There's no question that Ms T authorised the payments in dispute here. That means that 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I'm also satisfied that the payments in dispute do not fall under the provisions of the CRM 
Code. The CRM Code only covers payments between UK based, pound sterling accounts. 
The first transfer from Ms T to her colleague does meet this definition. But, after this her 
colleague used her money to purchase cryptocurrency before sending it to the fraudster. So, 
the fraudster received cryptocurrency, not pound sterling. That means that neither payment 
is covered under the CRM Code.
However, taking into account the law, regulators' rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, contrary to Ms T's submissions, Lloyds did recognise the first payment as being 
potentially high risk. It asked Ms T to call it to discuss the payment. I've listened to that call 
and I don't think Lloyds did enough to establish the circumstances surrounding the payment. 
The only factual circumstances it confirmed was that the payment was going to Ms T's 
colleague. It did not ask what the payment was for, which I think was an obvious question. 
Instead, it provided some general scam warnings about a range of different scams. The 
adviser asked Ms T to confirm how the account details had been obtained and whether 
she'd been asked to lie to the bank. She hadn't.
So, I think the bank should have questioned Ms T more. However, if it had done, I'm not 
persuaded further questioning would have dissuaded Ms T from going ahead or revealed 
that she was falling victim to a scam.
As already mentioned, when later questioned about the payments Ms T said that she had purchased cryptocurrency, had possession of it and had no concerns about the investment. 
It seems likely she would have given similar answers if questioned further during the call 
(though I accept she wouldn't have actually had possession of the cryptocurrency at that 
point).
In addition, Ms T says that her colleague had recommended the scheme and she'd read 
reviews online. I can see that, on a popular online review website, there were a number of 
positive reviews and only one negative review at the time Ms T made the payments.
Ms T also says that other people, including her colleague, had invested in the scheme and 
had received returns. Searches online suggest that this is likely to be true. The scheme 
which Ms T invested in was a relatively sophisticated one that was likely paying returns to 
investors for some time. The individual behind it appears to have had a reasonably 
significant online presence, there was also a UK company which appears to have been a 
subsidiary of an American business. The UK company was eventually wound up by the High 
Court after an investigation by The Insolvency Service - but not until after Ms T made her 
payments. In fact, at the time those payments were made it's not clear that it would have 
been apparent to anyone that the scheme was a scam at all.
So, while Lloyds might have probed a bit further into events and it might have noticed one or 
two concerning features of the investment - such as the fact it was unregulated and offered 
very high returns, I don't think Lloyds would have been in a position to give a very strong 
warning and, based on the checks Ms T says she'd already carried out and the fact the 
scheme had been personally recommended by a colleague, I don't think she would have 
been dissuaded from going ahead.
Finally, in relation to recovery, I can see that Lloyds did try and recover Ms T's money and a 
small amount was returned to her. It is worth noting, however, that Ms T sent a subsequent 
payment to that account as part of a different scam a month later. So, it's unclear which, if 
any, payment the amount returned relates to. I'm also afraid that, given Ms T doesn't seem 
to dispute that her money was converted into cryptocurrency and sent to the fraudulent 
investment scheme, the chances of recovering a significant amount was always going to be 
very low.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I've explained, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lloyds nor Ms T had anything further to add, so my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional decision set out above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman