DRN-3587403
The complaint
Miss K says NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that not only should 
the interest and late payment charges she paid on the accounts be refunded but she also 
thinks the debt should be written off. 
What happened
This complaint is about two accounts provided by NewDay Ltd to Miss K. 
Account A was opened in November 2018 with Miss K being given an initial credit limit of 
£500. The credit limit was increased in August 2019 to £1,500 and in January 2020 to 
£3,000
Account B was opened in November 2018 with Miss K being given an initial credit limit of 
£500. The credit limit was increased in June 2020 to £800.  
In 2021, Miss K complained to NewDay Ltd to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for her because they werent affordable. NewDay Ltd thought that it shouldnt 
have increased the credit limit on Account A in January 2020. Miss K brought her 
complaint to this service.   
Our adjudicator thought that neither account should have received any increases to the 
credit limits. NewDay Ltd has agreed with that finding and has offered to make the payment 
of our standard redress as specified by our adjudicator, which I will detail later. So, in the 
absence of any argument about the merits of the complaint, I propose to say nothing more 
about them in this decision. 
Miss K is not happy with the suggested redress and feels that her existing debts on the 
account should be written off, at least to the level of the original credit limits.  
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
In the assessment the adjudicator explained how NewDay Ltd should put things right. In 
the extract from the adjudicators assessment below, Ive changed the account names to 
Account A and B as in the rest of this decision. And similarly, Ive referred to the 
complainant as Miss K. The adjudicator said,
How to put things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right, its fair and reasonable for 
NewDay Ltd to refund any interest and charges incurred by Miss K as a result of the credit 
unfairly granted to them.
I dont think the limit should have been increased from 21 August 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, NewDay Ltd should remove any interest and charges incurred after 
this date as a result of any increases.
That is, NewDay Ltd can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the 
credit limit of £1000  Account A account £500 and Account B account £500, 
being the credit limit before 21 August 2019.
NewDay Ltd should work out how much Miss K would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Miss K made since August 2019 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss 
K along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to the 
date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Miss K no longer owes any money, then 
all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit 
file from August 2019.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, NewDay Ltd should look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Miss K for the outstanding amount. If the debt was 
sold to a third party, NewDay Ltd are to either repurchase the debt or liaise with the 
third-party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Miss K has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information should be removed from the credit file.
I understand that Miss K currently has an outstanding balance and I would like to 
remind NewDay Ltd of its obligations to treat Miss K fairly if she is having difficulties 
meeting the repayments. If Miss K feels she has been treated unfairly, she is to 
discuss this with the NewDay Ltd first, and we can consider this as a separate 
complaint if she is unhappy with their response.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
I think that this is the correct redress for this case. So, I think that NewDay Ltd should put 
things right as detailed above, if it hasnt already done so. 
Miss K thinks that the capital balance of both accounts should be written off, at least to the 
level of the initial credit limits on each card. Miss K said that she is in financial difficulty 
because of irresponsible lending. Miss K also thinks that NewDay Ltd made a mistake in 
giving her credit and shouldnt profit from their error. But I think that Miss K has had the benefit of the goods she purchased. It wouldnt generally 
be reasonable to say that Miss K shouldnt pay the cash price for them. However, the 
redress directed above sets out that Id expect NewDay Ltd to set up an affordable 
repayment plan for any capital that is outstanding. If Miss K demonstrates to NewDay Ltd 
that she isnt in a financial position to pay anything towards the capital balance for the 
foreseeable future I would expect them to treat her with forbearance, which may include 
considering whether writing off some or all of the capital would be appropriate. 
Any redress I award should ensure that Miss K hasnt lost out financially as a result of 
NewDay Ltds actions. Our service isnt the financial services regulator, so it isnt our role to 
punish businesses. Im satisfied that the redress Ive set out ensures that Miss K is 
appropriately compensated for NewDay Ltd making unfair lending decisions.
 
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd should put things right as detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. NewDay Ltd should put things 
right in the way set out above, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman