DRN-4301760
The complaint
Mr S complains he has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to peer 
(P2P) lending platform. He says he hasnt been paid the full outstanding value of his loans 
as promised when notification of the closure of the platform was given. 
What happened
Mr S held a P2P lending account for a number of years on Zopas platform and invested 
funds in return for interest. He had a portfolio of loans that included some loans that were up 
to date, some in arrears and some that were formally in default.   
In December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer investments 
and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to buy investors 
entire loan portfolios at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers have already 
paid up to the date of sale). But for loans that were in default it wouldnt make any payments 
when acquiring the loans.  It said the loan purchases would happen by the 31 January 2022. 
The completion of the purchase of Mr Ss loan portfolio completed on 14 January 2022. 
Mr S noticed his defaulted balance  which would be acquired without payment to him  had 
increased between December 2021 and January 2022. Mr S complained as he felt this 
meant he had been treated him unfairly. He was unhappy £25.30 (the increased default 
balance) had been kept by Zopa that was due to him. He was also unhappy that Zopa is 
keeping any amounts recovered from loans that had been written off before the transfer. 
Zopa responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it as it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong through the platform closure. It said:
- Due to changes within the P2P sector, it made the decision to close its P2P business 
 and referred to tighter regulation making it challenging to grow its P2P business 
while remaining commercially viable. 
- In respect of loan purchases it said, whilst any loans that have been defaulted were 
acquired without payment, it paid Mr S for of any loan eligible for sale  including all 
loans that were in a status of arrears at the point in which the sales were completed. 
So, this meant it purchased loans that would not be available for Mr S to sell on the 
secondary market.
- The loans were purchased at face value, and up until the loan sales were completed 
(on 14 January 2022) Mr Ss loans were serviced as normal - meaning if loans fell 
into default, they then were purchased at a face value of £0.00 like the rest of the 
defaults.
As Mr S was unhappy with Zopas response he referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. 
In summary, she found that Zopa had treated Mr S fairly in the way it acquired and 
compensated him for his loan portfolio. She didnt think Zopa needed to do anything further. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. He remained of the opinion, Zopa hadnt 
correctly compensated him for the sale of his loans. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint was passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. It 
says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr S has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
Mr Ss original complaint to Zopa was that he hasnt received what he should have from the 
loan purchase process that it introduced in December 2021. Ive looked at exactly what was 
explained in the notice that was sent to investors. This confirmed:
Zopas purchase of your portfolio will happen in stages, starting in December with your 
newest loans and completing no later than 31 January 2022 with the oldest loans.
Well purchase your loans at face value, so youll receive the balance you have invested in 
loans back in full plus of course any interest that borrowers have already paid up to the date 
of sale.
Zopa also says it provided information in the FAQs section on its website that explained any 
defaulted loans in investor portfolios at the time of the sale were acquired in the purchase at 
zero value.
From this and my understanding of the process Zopa followed, Mr S could expect to receive 
face value for his active loans, as well as those in arrears, but anything that had been 
defaulted he would not receive payment for. The information Ive seen about Mr Ss portfolio 
indicates that the vast majority of his loans were active, he had around 70 that were in 
arrears and around 30 that were in default. So, he did receive his capital returned for the 
vast majority of his loans. 
But he has raised a point that after Zopa gave notice of the closure of the platform and 
details of how it would compensate, his defaulted loan balance increased, and his arrears 
balanced decreased. He says this means that a loan defaulted and as a result he has 
received less than what was due to him as part of the loan acquisition. 
Zopa says up until the loan sales were completed (on 14 January 2022 for Mr S) his
loans were serviced as normal loans. This meant if loans fell into default in the period 
between the notice being given and completion of the sale then they would be acquired at 
zero value, like other defaulted loans in the portfolio, as per the process. 
I do understand the point Mr S makes about going from thinking he would be receiving face 
value for the all of his loans in arrears to having this reduced by £25 because of defaults that 
happened late in the process. But I dont think overall this is sufficient to say Zopa has done 
anything wrong here. If a default event happens before the loan acquisition process is 
complete, I find it reasonable to take that into account when calculating what Mr S is due. 
The timing of any defaults after the notice of the platform disclosure was given is 
unfortunate, but I havent seen anything to suggest Zopa acted inappropriately in this 
respect. Mr S has raised a more general concern about not being paid anything for his defaulted 
loans. I understand the point he makes about the principle of the potential for recovery 
payments to be made  so his defaulted loans still hold some value. But I also need to look 
at the circumstances of the platform closure and what he received for the other loans he had 
in his portfolio before deciding whether, overall, he has been treated fairly. 
As mentioned above Mr S was paid face value for around 70 loans that were arrears. These 
loans while not formally defaulted had run into payment problems. So, there was an 
enhanced risk that any (or all) of the loans Mr S held in this situation could default, and 
potentially lose some or all of his capital invested. Zopas decision to pay the full capital 
value of these loans effectively took away this risk. I consider this to be reasonable 
approach, and in some ways a generous offer considering the enhanced risk I mention 
above. When I weigh up this offer with the decision to acquire Mr Ss defaulted loans without 
value, I dont find he has been treated unfairly in the circumstances.
Mr S and the investigator disagreed on whether Zopa has followed its published 
contingency plan. Ive reviewed the information Zopa provided about its wind-down plan 
should it need to close the platform. This does refer to the several options. But I note the 
plan provides potential strategies that Zopa may follow as oppose to something it will 
categorically follow. So, I dont immediately think Zopa has failed to do something it said it 
would. Zopas approach gave a quick guaranteed return of capital on eligible loans. On 
balance, Im satisfied the decision to repay Mr S the capital on his loans (included those with 
late payments) means Mr S hasnt been treated unfairly  despite the argument it didnt 
follow the published wind down process in its entirety. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I havent found that Zopa need 
to pay him any further compensation from the loan sale. For the reasons above, Ive reached 
a finding that he hasnt been treated unfairly by Zopa when it acquired his loans when 
closing the platform. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman