DRN-2105552
The complaint
Ms C complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc removed a promotional 0% interest rate 
from her credit card after she missed a monthly payment.
 
What happened
In July 2018 Ms C opened a credit card account with Tesco. The credit card she was given 
had a promotional 0% interest rate for 12 months. This was important to Ms C because she 
wanted to use her credit card to repay her student overdraft.
On 21 March 2019 Ms C transferred a balance of £1000 onto her credit card, which was her 
first account transaction. She incurred a balance transfer fee of almost £40, in line with the 
terms and conditions of her account.
On 25 March 2019 Ms Cs statement was produced. It wasnt posted to her as shed set her 
preferences to online. Tesco said it informed Ms C by email that her statement was available 
online for her to view.
Ms Cs March 2019 statement confirmed shed need to make a minimum payment of £25 by 
19 April 2019. But Ms C didnt make that payment by the stipulated due date. So, a late fee 
was applied to her account and the interest free rate was withdrawn. 
On 25 April 2019 Tesco said it wrote to Ms C by post in order to inform her that shed 
incurred a late fee and lost her promotional 0% interest rate.
When Ms C became aware her account balance was incurring interest charges she 
complained to Tesco. While she accepted she hadnt made her payment on time she felt it 
was unfair for Tesco to remove the promotional 0% interest rate. She stated she hadnt been 
informed this had happened and thought Tescos decision to correspond with her about her 
account by post was wrong due to her preferences being set up for online communication. 
After Tesco investigated what had happened it told her it had correctly charged interest on 
her account balance. It said the promotional 0% interest rate offer was only available in 
circumstances where minimum payments were received on time. And it said the terms and 
conditions of Ms Cs credit card agreement were clear about that. Tesco also explained that 
the post it had sent Ms C about her interest free rate being withdrawn hadnt been returned 
undelivered. So, it had no reason to doubt this correspondence had been received by her. 
But, while it didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint, it agreed to apply an interest waiver for two 
months as a goodwill gesture.
Being dissatisfied with Tescos response to her complaint Ms C referred it to our service. Our 
investigator empathised with her but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, 
they didnt think Tesco had made an error. They thought Tesco had applied interest to Ms 
Cs account balance fairly. And they were satisfied this was clearly explained in the terms 
and conditions. But Ms C disagreed with our investigators view of her complaint and asked 
an ombudsman to decide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Ms C and Tesco have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments on what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take 
it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Tesco made a mistake, or treated Ms C unfairly, in 
removing the promotional 0% interest rate such that it needs to now put things right. And, 
having thought carefully about everything she and Tesco have said, Im afraid to say that I 
dont think it did. I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can 
understand the reasons behind my decision.
As set out in the background to this complaint, Marchs statement wasnt posted to Ms C 
because shed set her preferences to online. In those circumstances, Tesco emails 
customers to inform them that their statement is available online to review.
In this case Ms C doesnt dispute that Tesco informed her by email that her March 2019 
statement had been produced or that it made that statement available to view online. And 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this didnt happen. 
Ms C told our investigator the reasons why she didnt check her March statement. But, while 
she may have felt she didnt need to check her statements, its her responsibility to do so 
and to arrange payment by the due date. 
Had Ms C checked her March statement shed have been aware that her payment was due 
by 19 April 2019. The payment due date is clearly endorsed on the statement. I believe that 
if shed seen her statement, shed have made the required payment on time  thus retaining 
the interest free promotional rate.  
Prior to opening her credit card Ms C would have been made aware of the terms and 
conditions that applied to her account. I say this because shed have been required to agree 
to them as part of the account opening process. The onus is on Ms C to be aware of the 
terms and conditions that apply to her account. 
Those terms outline in clear, intelligible language that customers who dont pay their 
minimum monthly payment by the due date wont benefit from promotional introductory 
rates. Im persuaded that information provided to a customer in the terms and conditions 
about the promotional interest rate is unambiguous. 
As Ms C didnt make her minimum payment as required, Im satisfied Tescos decision to 
remove the promotional 0% interest rate is fair and in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
The terms of Ms Cs account also state:
We will always write to you to let you know the introductory rates have been withdrawn and 
from what date the standard rates will apply.Ms C disputes that Tesco notified her that it had withdrawn her promotional interest rate. But 
Ive seen correspondence from Tesco, dated 25 April 2019, which clearly explains that its 
standard interest rates will apply and what those rates are.
Ive carefully checked the address on the correspondence Tesco sent Ms C and can see it 
matches the address our service has recorded for her too. Im therefore satisfied its more 
likely than not that the letters were properly posted to Ms C. 
Tesco told our service there arent any account alerts that show the correspondence it 
posted to Ms C was returned undelivered. I dont doubt what she says about not receiving 
the letters she was sent. But this is perhaps due to issues with the post where she lives. 
While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to hold Tesco responsible for that. Its not something over which it has any control.
Ms C believes Tescos decision to correspond with her by post was wrong because her 
communication preferences were set to email. But I cant fairly conclude that Tesco made a 
mistake in communicating with Ms C by post. I say this because the terms and conditions 
state Tesco will write to a customer in his scenario, which infers it will send postal 
correspondence. Its also a matter for Tesco to decide how it wishes to communicate with its 
customers about breaches of their account terms.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Tesco made Ms C aware that her 
promotional interest free rate had been withdrawn in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of her account. 
Im also persuaded Tesco has done all it can to resolve Ms Cs complaint. I say this because 
even though it didnt believe it had made an error, or uphold this complaint, it agreed to 
waive two months interest. I think this demonstrates Tesco dealt with Ms Cs concerns 
sympathetically and reasonably. Its not something Id have told it to do as part of my 
decision.
For the reasons given, Im not persuaded Tesco did anything wrong here. So, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Ms Cs dispute 
with Tesco informally, can do for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman