DRN-4237345
The complaint
Mr C complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with his account.
What happened
Mr C says he received a letter from RBS telling him it was closing his account due to him 
using the account for business transactions. He says the transactions in question were not 
business transaction but work he carried out as a sole trader. Mr C says he was told to open 
a business account after being told the payments that led to the review were related to a 
business I will call S. He says he was then told the issue was with dividend payments. Mr C 
says he spent some time sorting matters out and in opening new accounts. He would like 
compensation in line with his daily income rate of £600 and says he has been misled. Mr C 
disputes using the account for business use.
RBS says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close an account if its 
being used for business transactions. It says it correctly told Mr C to open a business 
account and what the issue was when he first called. RBS accepts it later gave Mr C 
misleading information and has paid £100 compensation.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation was 
appropriate. The investigator thought Mr C had been told the issue was with the S payments 
but accepts RBS could have been clearer in the later call. The investigator thought there 
were a number of transactions involving S.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says most of the S transactions ended before 
the issue was raised and was told it was the dividend payment that was the concern. He 
says he wasnt given the chance to sort matters out and maintains he should receive 
compensation in line with his lost income. Mr C says he was told there was no need to cease 
business transactions immediately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has acted appropriately by paying 
a fair and reasonable compensation amount and by apologising for the misleading 
information.
I have looked carefully at Mr Cs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
RBS can close an account if it considers it is being used for business purposes. So, I dont 
think RBS made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr C that it intended to close the 
account when it concluded there were hundreds of potential business transactions involving 
S. 
I have listened to the call between the parties, and Im satisfied RBS told Mr C that the issue 
was with S and that he told it he used S for sole trader work. I make clear that Im satisfied 
sole trader work is still business activity and Im not sure why Mr C suggests they are not 
business transactions. During the call Im satisfied Mr C agreed to open a business account.
There is no dispute here that Mr C spoke to RBS again. Im satisfied that again S was 
highlighted as the possible reason for the issue, but Mr C was then told that the dividend 
payments were the issue. I think Mr C said he did use S but suggested it was low level 
amounts. He also went on to say that he has previously been told it may have been S that 
caused the problem but said it was low value (under £5). I accept Mr C was given conflicting 
and misleading information but can see that RBS has apologised for that and paid what I 
think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I also think that it was Mr C that 
suggested in that call that S was used for low value transactions having previously been told 
it was S that caused the initial review. But clearly RBS ought to have checked and clarified 
the position.
I appreciate Mr C would like compensation in line with his daily charging rate. That is not 
how we assess compensation. I have not seen any direct evidence of financial loss and Mr 
C was not acting in a professional capacity when, for example, he was speaking to RBS. I 
have made clear that I accept Mr C was given misleading information about the dividend 
payment being the issue but have also made clear he was given correct advice when he first 
called RBS. In any event I find it was Mr Cs responsibility to manage his account and 
ensure it was not being used for business transactions.
I also accept Mr C was told not to worry about any S transactions during the second call. But 
I also think he had been told the S transactions were an issue previously.
Overall, Im satisfied that RBS should have given Mr C correct information during a second 
call to it but am satisfied the compensation as well as apology is appropriate. I cant fairly 
direct RBS increase the compensation level and dont consider the misleading information 
justifies it. I accept Mr C decided to open a new account and accept that would have caused 
inconvenience but am satisfied the problem was initially caused by the business use of the 
account. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman