DRN-2906489
The complaint
Mrs M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to transfer the balance of her 
dormant savings account within a reasonable period of time.
What happened
Mrs M says she held a savings account with Barclays, which she became aware in August 
2020 had been made dormant. Mrs M says she contacted Barclays and immediately began 
the process of having the balance returned to her. Despite visiting the branch with 
identification, sending letters of authority and chasing Barclays, it was only after the 
intervention of a journalist she had contacted, that Barclays, almost five months later, finally 
returned the monies to her. Mrs M says Barclays have been untruthful in their dealings with 
her and says the time it has taken them to deal with the matter was unreasonable. Mrs M 
says the £200 offered by way of compensation by Barclays, doesnt go far enough for the 
inconvenience and upset this has caused her.
Barclays have acknowledged they made mistakes here and says the original timescale to 
deal with the dormant account given to Mrs B was incorrect. Barclays accept they have 
taken longer to deal with this than they should, but in part this was caused by issues created 
by the Covid pandemic. Barclays feel the offer of £200 by way of apology is a fair sum to 
reflect the inconvenience caused, given Mrs M hasnt suffered any other financial loss. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with Barclays original response or their subsequent offer of 
compensation and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
He felt Barclays while having made mistakes, had put matters right and had offered a 
suitable level of compensation.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand the time it took Barclays to return Mrs Ms dormant account balance would 
have been both frustrating and time consuming for her. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if Barclays, having now returned the dormant bank account balance to Mrs M, have 
fairly compensated her for the inconvenience and trouble she has experienced here. 
The first thing to say here is when making a full and impartial decision, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic, which affected businesses and 
customers alike. 
Mrs M has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point she has made as I dont 
feel its necessary to come an impartial decision. Thats not to say I havent considered what 
she has said  I have. 
Mrs M says she provided Barclays with a letter in September 2020 giving them the authority 
and account details where to send the balance of the dormant account. She says this 
followed a branch visit in August 2020 where she was incorrectly told the matter would take 
10-15 days to complete and a cheque would be sent to her. Mrs M has also informed this 
service that despite chasing Barclays on more than one occasion it was only when she 
asked for a journalist to become involved in January 2021, the monies were finally sent to 
her nominated bank account. 
Its fair to say Barclays have accepted that despite their standard timescales for dealing with 
dormant accounts, usually within 12 weeks, this matter took longer to resolve than they 
would expect. Barclays have told this service they never received the original authority letter 
back in September 2020 from Mrs M and it was only able to action the transfer when Mrs M 
resent it. Barclays have made the point this happened during the time of the Covid 
pandemic, which created unique problems for the business. Barclays go on to say, while 
taking longer than they would wish, it actually took one month longer than their standard 
timescales for dealing with dormant bank account settlements, and the level of 
compensation offered to Mrs M reflects the added time it took them here. 
I have considered what both parties have said and its reasonable to say that Mrs M went to 
some lengths here, to have her dormant account balance returned to her nominated bank 
account. Its not possible for me to know whether or not the original authority letter in 
September 2020 was ever received by Barclays, but I am satisfied on balance, in all 
likelihood it was sent by Mrs M. Similarly, while Mrs M feels the only reason the monies were 
returned was due to the intervention of a journalist, there is no way of knowing this for 
certain as Barclays were in the course of dealing with the matter at that time, accepting the 
timing of its eventual payment was shortly after his involvement. So, its fair to say that Mrs 
M has been inconvenienced here and Barclays even when they said they were releasing the 
funds in early December 2020, didnt manage to carry this out until over a month later. 
Having said this, I do have to consider the fact this was at a time of the backdrop of the 
pandemic meaning businesses, like Barclays, faced problems that resulted in inconvenience 
to its customers, so its important its taken into account when trying to establish why it was, 
they took so long to deal with the matter. 
Although I dont see the sole reason for the delays are exclusively as a result of the 
pandemic, it would, in all likelihood, have contributed to it here. Its fair that Mrs M is 
compensated for the trouble she has gone through but that said, its not my role to penalise 
banks like Barclays when problems arise, but to make sure these are corrected, apologised 
for and some recompense is made as a result  I am satisfied on balance this is what 
happened here. I say this because the monies have been returned to Mrs M with interest, 
along with an offer of compensation of £200, albeit £50 less than Mrs M asked for. I am 
satisfied Barclays offer is reasonable given there is no evidence of any other financial loss to 
Mrs M. 
While Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman