DRN-3537689
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the information Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham 
Midshires, has recorded on their credit files in respect of their buy-to-let mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a buy-to-let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires (BM). Their financial 
situation was badly affected as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, so they decided to sell the 
mortgaged property.
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate, and Mr and Mrs K were unhappy about being 
required to pay an early repayment charge. That has been the subject of a separate 
complaint with BM. 
Mr and Mrs K expected the sale of the property to complete on 20 November 2020. The 
monthly mortgage payment was due the day before, on 19 November. On 17 November, Mr 
K spoke to BM on the phone. He says he understood from that conversation that he should 
cancel the direct debit for the mortgage and the November payment would be covered when 
BM received the proceeds of the sale.
Mr K cancelled the direct debit. But the sale didnt complete until several months later. No 
payments were made to the mortgage in November and December 2020, and BM recorded 
missed payments on Mr and Mrs Ks credit files. It also sent letters and made phone calls 
about the mortgage arrears. Mr K set up a new direct debit in January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs K complained. BM accepted it should have stopped debt recovery action, since it 
knew the sale of the property was imminent. But it said it had reported the right information 
about the operation of the mortgage to credit reference agencies, and it wouldnt remove the 
missed payment markers.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He listened to a 
recording of Mr Ks call with BM on 17 November 2020, and thought BM had given Mr K the 
right information about cancelling his direct debit and the need to make payments by other 
means. Mr and Mrs K hadnt then made alternative arrangements to make the mortgage 
payments when the sale of their property was delayed, so the investigator concluded that 
BM was right to have recorded those missed payments on their credit files. 
Mr K didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. He said his was a very 
unusual situation which couldnt have been foreseen, and the Investigator had failed to take 
account of other relevant evidence and circumstances, and had focused too heavily on the 
17 November call. 
The Investigator went on to review further calls, but he didnt change his mind. He remained 
of the view that Mr and Mrs K should reasonably have known they needed to continue 
making monthly payments to their mortgage until it was repaid in full. Mr K disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive considered includes Mr Ks correspondence with Investigators and a 
Manager at the Financial Ombudsman Service, as well as all the recordings that have been 
provided of Mr Ks calls with BM.
First of all, I recognise that Mr and Mrs K were going through a very stressful time when the 
events giving rise to this complaint took place. They had had to re-assess their financial 
situation as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, and the sale of the mortgaged property 
was delayed repeatedly as a result of problems with the buyer. However, until the mortgage 
was repaid in full, the monthly mortgage payments were still due under Mr and Mrs Ks 
contract with BM.
Ive listened carefully to all the available call recordings. Having done so, I think the call of 17 
November 2020 is important. Mr K told BM that the sale of the property was expected to 
complete on the coming Friday, 20 November. He asked about the mortgage payment that 
was due to come out of his bank account on Thursday 19 November. He said he didnt really 
have the money, and he would prefer not to make that payment if he didnt have to. BM said 
this payment hadnt been factored into its redemption statement as a credit, so Mr K could 
cancel his direct debit and not make the 19 November payment, subject to completion of the 
sale on 20 November. The payment would then be covered by the proceeds of the sale.
Mr K asked what would happen if the sale didnt complete on 20 November. BM said: If you 
dont make the payment of £485.98 on Thursday and you complete on Friday then thats 
fine. If for any reason you dont complete on Friday then you would need to make a manual 
payment to avoid falling into arrears. BM asked Mr K if he would like its bank details in case 
he needed to make a manual payment, Mr K said yes, BM provided them and Mr K read 
them back.
The call then ended, with Mr K asking for a call the following week with an update about his 
complaint in respect of BMs refusal to waive the early repayment charge.
Im satisfied that BM was clear on the 17 November 2020 call about its requirement for Mr 
and Mrs K to make a payment to their mortgage if completion was delayed. It didnt mislead 
Mr K or give him wrong information.
Ive gone on to consider what happened later, and I dont find that what BM told Mr K in the 
November call was superseded by subsequent calls and correspondence. In December 
2020, one of BMs complaints handlers discussed the automated arrears letters and calls Mr 
K had been receiving with him and said they were being stopped because BM was content 
for the mortgage to be cleared on receipt of the proceeds of the sale, given that it 
understood the sale was imminent. 
I can see there may have been scope for some misunderstanding here, but I think the 
context of the call is relevant  it was about the automated collections activity BM was 
undertaking and about which Mr K was unhappy. It also followed the clear instruction BM 
had given Mr K on 17 November about the need to make monthly payments if the sale was delayed. Importantly, I havent found anything in the various calls and correspondence to 
indicate that BM told Mr or Mrs K they could stop paying the mortgage if the property sale 
completed later than 20 November 2020.   
 
On 14 December 2020, BM sent Mr and Mrs K a final response letter about their complaint 
about contact from its collections team. Mr K says he didnt get that letter until January 2021, 
because it was sent to the wrong address, and, had he received it sooner, he would have 
made the December 2020 mortgage payment and avoided a missed payment for that month 
on his credit file. 
The 14 December letter is about BMs collections action and said the mortgage had been 
taken out of BMs automated system. It said nothing about the requirement to make monthly 
payments or not, so I dont think it follows that Mr K would necessarily have made a payment 
if he had got the letter earlier. I dont find that this letter helps Mr Ks case in respect of what 
BM has put on his credit file.  
Ultimately, the contractual requirement for Mr and Mrs K to make monthly payments to their 
mortgage didnt change, and BM didnt tell them that it had. BM was entitled to report the 
operation of the mortgage to credit reference agencies, and thats what it has done. 
Mr K says the information on his credit file has changed over time, and that may be so  
particularly if he has raised a dispute with one or more credit reference agencies. However, 
theres no dispute that he and Mrs K didnt make the November and December 2020 
mortgage payments, so I cant fairly find that BM has done anything wrong in reporting either 
or both of those payments to Mr and Mrs Ks credit files as having been missed. I note that it 
has also explained to Mr and Mrs K that they can ask the credit reference agencies to add a 
notice of correction to their files explaining their situation if they wish. 
I know this isnt the decision Mr and Mrs K were hoping for, but in all the circumstances I find 
I cant fairly uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman