DRN-4149837
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc, who Ill call Sainsburys, didnt process a 
chargeback for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I dont think Sainsburys have done anything wrong here. 
Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as was the 
case here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Sainsburys, its administered by Mastercard, 
and they set the rules. Sainsburys didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it 
good practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Sainsburys have explained that the Mastercard chargeback rules say that claims must be 
submitted within 120 days of the transaction date. As Mr H paid for the tuition on 5 
September 2021 a claim would therefore need to be submitted to Mastercard, by 
Sainsburys, before 3 January 2022.
While Mr H raised his claim to Sainsburys in October 2021 he didnt provide all of the 
information Sainsburys would need to raise a complaint until April 2022 and that was 
outside of the 120 day time limit. 
I note that Sainsburys wrote to Mr H on 13 January 2022 asking again for more information 
to support his claim. That was outside of 120 days, so it would appear that the request was 
pointless because a successful claim couldnt have been raised within the time limit 
Sainsburys say they were constrained by.
Ive thought about whether Mr H was disadvantaged by that, but I dont think he was. 
Sainsburys first asked for the information they needed to assess the merits of the claim in 
October 2021, they asked again the following month and provided deadlines on both 
occasions. So, I think it was clear that if Mr H was able to provide the information when it 
was asked for, it would have been possible for Sainsburys to make a timely decision about 
whether a claim could proceed.
Ultimately, I dont think Sainsburys did have sufficient information in time to raise a 
chargeback claim and I dont, therefore, think they did anything wrong.
When a payment is made using a credit card it may also be possible to raise a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). That says that in certain 
circumstances the same claim can be made against the provider of credit as against the 
supplier. One of those circumstances, however, is that the value of the goods must be more 
than £100 and here, as the service was £80, a section 75 claim couldnt be raised.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman