DRN-1485942
 
The complaint
 This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs D. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. Mrs 
D was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs D has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Mrs D has said the PPI wasnt explained properly, and she thought she had to have it. The 
form, which Mrs D signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and she had to sign separately 
to confirm she wanted it. Mrs D has signed the form in the relevant place, so it does seem 
she was making a choice to buy the PPI.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ds 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs D to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs D clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Mrs D. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. 
But given Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because it seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living costs 
and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also, it doesnt look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Susan Peters
Ombudsman