DRN-3332471
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Bought by Many Ltd (BBM) has mis-sold her pet insurance
by advising her that her pet kitten would be covered for a kidney abnormality but then 
declining a claim on the ground that it was a pre-existing condition.
What happened
When Miss A was due to acquire a 5-month-old kitten, she researched pet insurance. Ill
refer to the kitten as P. She emailed BBM on 23 January 2020 and explained that P had
been born with one regular kidney and one smaller kidney. She said that this had not had an
effect on Ps health, she showed no signs of illness, and she was a healthy kitten.
BBM replied by email the next day. It told Miss A that it defined a pre-existing condition as
anything her pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. It told her 
that it did offer a Pre-Existing policy that could help to cover pre-existing conditions, but the 
condition must have been treatment, medication and advice-free for three months before the 
policy is taken out. If Miss A chose not to buy the Pre-Existing policy, any pre-existing 
conditions couldnt be covered, which meant that anything her pet had had treatment, 
medication or advice for during the last two years would be excluded under the policy if it re-
occurred.
BBM said that as P showed no signs of illness and was healthy she could get a quote for a
lifetime policy.
Miss A sought further clarification by asking if that meant that if P had no health issues due 
to her kidneys, she could take out a regular lifetime policy and be fully covered. BBM replied 
to say that was absolutely correct.
Miss A asked for further clarification again on 10 February 2020. She said that P had had 
tests done to determine kidney function, but she had not had any diagnosis of any illness as 
a result of the tests. She asked whether, if P had not been officially diagnosed by a vet with 
any illnesses regarding her kidneys, would she be fully covered for any issue with a lifetime 
policy. Again, BBM confirmed this as correct.
Miss A took out a lifetime policy with BBM on 13 February 2020 to cover P. She submitted a
claim for veterinary treatment in November 2020 which included kidney function tests, but
BBM declined the claim in the ground that the kidney abnormality was a pre-existing
condition and therefore excluded.
In its final response to Miss A, BBM accepted that its call handler shouldnt have told her
that P would be covered under a lifetime policy. It explained that Ps condition had been
referred to its veterinary advisors. Their view was that Ps kidney abnormality had been
identified when she was spayed on 21 January 2020, which was advice. Blood and urine
tests were taken on 5 February 2020, and that this was considered to be treatment. Ps
condition was therefore a pre-existing one as there had been treatment and advice regarding
Ps kidney abnormality in the 24 months before Miss As policy started.
Because Miss A had been given misleading advice, BBM agreed to meet the claim for the
veterinary consultations on 17-19 November 2020 (£117.92) which it says it wasnt required
to do under the policy as the treatment was recommended by Ps breeder and not advised
by the vet. However it said it wouldnt be able to pay any further claims relating to Ps
condition, but if she didnt receive any further treatment, medication or advice relating to her
kidney abnormality for 2 full years, the condition could be treated as a new one thereafter.
Miss A said she wanted to switch to a pre-existing policy as from the beginning of her cover 
or to receive a refund of premiums. BBM has said that switching to a pre-existing policy is an
option but the condition would need to be treatment-free for at least three months before the
new policy would cover it.
As Miss A wasnt satisfied with BBMs response to her complaint, she brought it to this
service.
Our investigators view was that although Miss A had been given misleading information by
BBM, it was also reasonable to know that as a vet had observed and recorded Ps kidney
abnormality, that it would likely be classed as a pre-existing condition. She didnt think BBM
should cover the costs of any kidney related claims until the condition had been treatment 
free for 2 years. She considered that BBMs agreement to pay the vet costs incurred in
November 2020, which it wasnt required to do, was a fair outcome.
Miss A didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that her complaint be
referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Miss As complaint and received further comments 
from both BBM and Miss A which Ill refer to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss As complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the exchange of emails between Miss A and BBM before Miss A took out her
lifetime policy. I think its clear that she wanted to clarify whether or not a lifetime policy,
rather than the more expensive Pre-Existing policy, would cover P for any health issues
arising from the fact that she had one normal sized kidney and one abnormally smaller one.
She was told quite clearly that it would, and she took out a lifetime policy on the strength of
that.
I dont disagree with what BBM has said in its final response letter about the identification of
the abnormality being advice, and the tests taken being treatment and therefore the
condition should be treated as pre-existing, as her policy defines this as anything your pet
has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. But I can understand that
Miss A may have not been clear that this was likely to be BBMs interpretation of the policy
wording, which was why she sought clarification.
So in my opinion, Miss A was misled by BBM, in particular as to whether the identification of
one kidney being smaller than another constituted advice, and tests being treatment, and
took out a lifetime policy on the strength of this.
I think that Ps kidney abnormality is something that most insurers would be likely to regard
as a pre-existing condition which may lead to health complications in the future. So its likelythat if Miss A had disclosed this to any other insurer they wouldve imposed a restriction on
the cover available.
I consider that BBM has acted fairly in agreeing to pay for the cost of the veterinary
consultations that P had in November 2020, but I think it needs to go further than that to be
fair to Miss A.
In my provisional decision, I said that I considered that the fair outcome would be for BBM to 
allow Miss A to switch to its Pre-Existing policy if she chose to do so, and that BBM should 
pay Miss A £100 compensation.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss A said that she no longer wished to switch to 
BBMs pre-existing policy and would stay with the cheaper and more comprehensive lifetime 
policy. P remained healthy and it would soon be 2 years since her kidney abnormality had 
been identified and she hadnt so far shown any ill effects of this. Miss A was waiting for 
confirmation from BBM as to the exact date when the 2-year exclusion period would expire 
following which P would be fully covered.
BBM, in response to my provisional decision, said that it accepted it on the basis that the 
£100 I provisionally required it to pay was a one-off compensatory amount now that Miss A 
fully understood its approach to pre-existing conditions. It went on to outline how she could 
transfer to the Pre-existing policy if she chose to.
As I remain of the view that Miss A was initially misadvised by BBM, and took out a lifetime 
policy with it on the strength of the advice she received, I think it would be fair for BBM to 
compensate her for the inconvenience and worry she has suffered. If BBM had given her 
clearer advice, Miss A mightve shopped around for alternative cover for P. I consider that 
£100 compensation would be reasonable in these circumstances, and BBM has agreed to 
pay this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss As complaint and I require Brought by 
Many Ltd to pay Miss A compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman