DRN-3543600
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC t/a Tesco Bank wont refund her a payment 
she made using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs H says in December 2019, she used her Tesco Bank credit card to book flights (inbound 
and outbound) to go abroad in September 2020, for her and her husband. The cost of the 
flights were £237.96.
In March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised UK 
nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And by September 2020, when Mrs H and 
her husband were due to fly, this advice was still in place. Mrs H then contacted the airline 
she was due to fly with to ask for a refund as she was following the advice in place by the 
FCDO. However, the airline said the flights were still available and due to go ahead so they 
didnt provide a refund. Mrs H felt this wasnt fair, so she contacted Tesco Bank for their 
help.
Tesco Bank looked into Mrs Hs concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They said 
the flights were still available, so Tesco Bank didnt feel they had grounds to raise a 
chargeback claim as it wouldnt have been successful. Tesco Bank also didnt feel there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  so they didnt think a Section 75 claim of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) would be successful.
Mrs H says she felt she was misled by Tesco Bank as she was told she would get a refund, 
but then she didnt. Tesco Bank looked at the service Mrs H was provided with and 
recognised she was given the incorrect information during a call on 4 November 2020. As a 
result, Tesco Bank credited Mrs Hs account with £50 compensation. 
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator looked into her concerns. Ultimately, she didnt think Tesco Bank had acted 
unfairly by declining Mrs Hs request for a refund. Our Investigator explained the flights were 
still available for Mrs H and her husband to use, so there wouldnt have been a valid 
chargeback reason code under which Mrs Hs claim would be successful. Additionally, as 
the flights went ahead as planned, our Investigator didnt think there had been a breach of 
contract. So, she didnt think Tesco Bank had dealt with the Section 75 claim unfairly. 
However, our Investigator felt Tesco Bank could have done more to explain that the refund 
theyd given to Mrs H was temporary. But overall, she felt the £50 Tesco Bank paid Mrs H 
was fair compensation for the frustration caused.  
Mrs H disagreed. She said she didnt feel the £50 compensation Tesco Bank paid her was 
enough as she reiterated she was given the wrong information by them and that this caused 
her a lot of stress. Mrs H also said her and her husband were following the advice in place 
by the FCDO at the time and she feels they have been penalised for doing the right thing. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thought it may be helpful for me to set out at this point that this decision is solely about the 
actions of Tesco Bank. Its not about the airline who isnt party to this decision and who 
arent within our services remit for complaints in relation to chargeback and Section 75. I 
hope this distinction is clear.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mrs H does 
here, Tesco Bank (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback.
 
Tesco Bank are required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success 
when they are considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If they do 
go through the process, then they must do so properly. And they can fairly decide to not 
proceed at any stage if they dont think there is a reasonable prospect of success. Under this 
process, there are rules which must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the 
card networks, such as Visa and Mastercard.
Mrs H contacted Tesco Bank to raise her claim on 4 November 2020. Tesco Bank said that 
in order for Mrs Hs chargeback claim to be accepted, they must ensure the rules set out by 
the card scheme have been met. Tesco Bank also said they referred this situation directly to 
the card scheme who advised that the service was still made available to Mrs H so she 
wouldnt be able to claim the refund back through a chargeback claim.
Having looked at the rules and having considered what Tesco Bank have said, I think the 
code most relevant in Mrs Hs case is services not received. This rule explains that for a 
chargeback to be raised, the cardholder or an authorised person must not have received the 
services paid for because the merchant was unwilling or unable to provide them.
In Mrs Hs case, I havent seen any evidence to suggest the flights  both inbound and 
outbound  werent available for Mrs H and her husband to use. So, I dont think Mrs Hs 
claim would have been successful under services not received as the airline would have 
likely defended the claim on the basis that they were willing and able to fulfil the booking. 
Ive then looked at the chargeback guidance set out by the card scheme which specifically 
relates to disputes and circumstances impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance 
provides that the issuer (in this case Tesco Bank) does not have chargeback rights if a 
cardholder (Mrs H) cannot use or access services made available by a merchant (the 
airline), as the merchant has fulfilled its obligations linked to the transaction.
So, with all things considered, even if Tesco Bank had pursued a chargeback for Mrs H, I 
dont think it likely would have been successful. I say this because I think the airline could 
have presented a valid defence for the reasons set out above. As such, I dont think Tesco 
Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not raising the chargeback.
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Mrs H paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her Tesco Bank credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, 
Tesco Bank can be held responsible. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. This means the creditor (Tesco Bank) must provide credit that finances a
transaction between the debtor (Mrs H) and the supplier (the airline). 
Having looked at the available evidence, including Mrs Hs bank statement showing the 
payment being made to the supplier, Im satisfied the relevant DCS arrangement exists in 
this case.
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the airline must have a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. In this case, I 
can see that Mrs H paid £237.96 for the flights. So, Im satisfied that the flight cost per 
person would have been over £100 each. This means I think Mrs H could have a valid claim 
under Section 75.
Now Ive established the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 about 
the service the airline provided, and that the cash price of that service is sufficient for Section 
75 to apply, I need to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or  
misrepresentation on the part of the airline.
As Ive explained, I havent seen any evidence that the airline were unable to fulfil the flight 
booking Mrs H had made. In fact, Tesco Bank have provided us with evidence to show the 
flights Mrs H had booked went ahead. So, I dont think theres been a breach of contract 
caused by the airline in this case. I appreciate Mrs Hs point that she was following FCDO 
advice at the time. But I can only require Tesco Bank to refund her the amount she paid for 
the flights if there was either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline. 
However, Ive not found this was the case. Overall, then, I dont think Tesco Bank dealt with 
the Section 75 claim unfairly. 
Customer service
Mrs H says when she contacted Tesco Bank to ask them for help in getting her the refund, 
she was told that theyd refund her the amount she paid for the flights as Tesco Bank would 
then be able to recoup the funds from the airline. Tesco Bank recognised this was incorrect 
information and that Mrs Hs expectations ought to have been managed on this phone call. I 
can understand this must have been frustrating for Mrs H especially as she believed she 
was getting a refund for the flights.
Its clear Tesco Bank have acknowledged something went wrong here and I can appreciate 
the inconvenience and frustration caused when Mrs H found out she wasnt, in fact, getting a 
refund. With that in mind, I think the £50 Tesco Bank have compensated Mrs H with is fair 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. So, I wont be asking Tesco Bank to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoyOmbudsman