DRN-1881062
The complaint
Mr L complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) asked for additional 
information when dealing with his application for a loan. He also complains about the 
handling of his complaint.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr L applied for finance for a replacement car. He already had a finance 
agreement with TFS. TFS asked him for three months of bank statements. Mr L provided 
these and TFS offered him the finance he was seeking. Mr L was concerned about why TFS 
needed the additional information and he complained and queried why. TFS took some time 
to respond and it rejected his complaint. 
It said: When assessing an application many factors are taken into account, this includes 
payment history, (not only with Toyota Financial Services but other lenders), credit 
commitments, employment status, earnings and outgoings. Most of this information is 
provided by the Credit Reference Agencies.
Mr L was dissatisfied with this response and brought his complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think that TFS had done anything wrong in asking for the bank statements. He also 
explained that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so is outside our remit.
Mr L didnt agree and set where he thought our investigator had erred. He also sent in a 
copy of his credit reference report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. 
I recognise the strength of feeling Mr L has shown in pursuing his complaint, but I dont 
consider I can uphold it.
Part of his complaint relates to the handling of his complaint by TFS. As our investigator has 
explained complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so is not within our jurisdiction. 
That means I will not be commenting on that element of Mr Ls complaint.
On the matter of the request for additional information I consider TFS was entitled to make 
that request. In short, Mr L said I would like to borrow some money. TFS said we will need to 
consider your request and looked at the information it had available including data from 
credit reference agencies. Having done so it decided it wanted to see his bank statements. 
That was a commercial decision for it to take and not one with which I would interfere.
It has told this service on a confidential basis what prompted it to ask for the bank 
statements. That has not led me to conclude it was wrong to make that request. 
Furthermore, I have looked at the credit report Mr L has submitted and that doesnt mean 
that I can say TFS was wrong. 
Mr L has said he has lost out financially as the terms he was offered and accepted were 
worse than his previous agreement taken out in May 2017. I disagree. The two agreements 
are not comparable. If TFS had made an offer in 2019 which it later amended after seeing 
his bank statement I could see there might be an argument that he had lost out. But that is 
not the case and comparing a loan with one made two years earlier is not relevant. I would 
add that Mr L wasnt obliged to supply the bank statement and could have sought alternative 
finance if he didnt wish to submit the bank statements.
Finally, I should point out that the dealer is a separate entity to TFS and any explanation 
offered by its staff as to why the bank statements were required cannot be held to be the 
responsibility of TFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman