DRN-3174414
The complaint
Ms H complains that Hanley Economic Building Society (Hanley) unfairly declined her 
transfer of equity application. She would like them to transfer the mortgage into her sole 
name.
What happened
Ms H has a mortgage with Hanley which is joint with her ex-partner, Mr H. As part of their 
divorce agreement, it was decided that Ms H must allow Mr H to be released from their 
mortgage agreement  and Mr H had to be released by May 2021. Ms H has said that Mr H 
has no further interest in the property and that she has been paying the mortgage on her 
own for the last ten years or so.
Hanley told Ms H that she would need to reapply for a mortgage in her own name and when 
she did, Hanley declined the application. They said they couldnt accept some of Ms Hs 
income as it wasnt in line with the lending policies. They also thought that Ms H hadnt 
included some of her outgoings when they carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment. 
Ms H said she offered someone to be a guarantor for the mortgage and for payments to be 
made two years in advance with the help of a family member. She said in two years time, 
she would get her private pension which she said was around £140,000. But Hanley 
declined both options. 
Ms H is now divorced from Mr H and she feels she is being made to sell her home, even 
though she has paid the mortgage on time for at least four years. She said she has been a 
single parent since 2009 and has home educated her children, one of whom is 14 who has a 
disability. She said she also home schools her friends child. 
Ms H said there is enough equity in her property as she has now had to put her house on the 
market at £575,000, and the mortgage is around £145,000, so Ms H doesnt understand the 
risk involved. Ms H said she is extremely stressed and overwhelmed at the feeling of being 
forced to sell her home. She said the upheaval for her children, especially the stress it would 
cause her disabled child, is just too much and its not the right time for them to be moving. 
Ms H argues that she has enough income from the maintenance she receives from Mr H and 
tax credits to cover the mortgage which is what she has been doing over the last few years. 
She says she also has an income from private work that she does.
Hanley responded to Ms Hs complaint and they said her income was not sufficient to 
remove Mr H. They said they would only accept 25% of child benefit payments as it was 
outside their lending criteria to accept them all. Hanley said some of the income Ms H has 
stated they cannot accept as they would need two years worth of accounts before they 
could include it. Hanley also said they cannot take Ms Hs pension into account as she 
hasnt drawn it down yet. 
Ms H was unhappy with what Hanley had said so she brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that Hanley had 
acted unfairly. He said that Hanley didnt consider MCOB (mortgage conduct of business) 
rules section 11.7.1 and thought it was in Ms Hs best interests to remain in her property. So 
he thought that Hanley should approve the transfer of equity application and remove Mr H 
from the mortgage. 
Hanley disagreed and responded in detail. They said:
The court order for the divorce was from 2016  Ms H didnt put the property on the 
market until May 2021. Ms H had the last five years to comply with the court order, 
but she chose not to do so, and she has not been working for the last five years
Ms H knew that some of the child maintenance would stop (£300 per month) from 
May 2021 at the same time that she wanted Mr H to be released from the mortgage
They helped Ms H and Mr H during covid-19 by reducing the repayment element of 
their mortgage and switching £25,000 to interest only, which brought the total of the 
interest only element to £126,000. This change meant the contractual monthly 
payment was around £400.  Hanley said the repayment for the interest only element 
was Mr and Ms Hs pensions
They said prior to the covid forbearance (trying to help Ms H and Mr H) the account 
had experienced payment issues. In July 2014, Ms H requested help as Mr H was 
made redundant, so the £300 agreed maintenance was not being paid. At the time, 
Ms H said she wasnt trading and had no income other than income support. As a 
result, the DWP (department of work and pensions) made payment on behalf of Mr H 
with the other 50% being paid by Ms H. The shortfall was capitalised as neither of 
them could afford to bring the account back on track
In March 2018 they needed assistance again. Ms H stated she was still not trading, 
and her income was based on the maintenance she received from Mr H and income 
support. Payments were reduced to interest only for a period of time with a further 
change to part interest only and part capital repayment. They said during the contract 
variations this year, Ms H has stated she cannot afford to pay more than £400 per 
month knowing she is losing support from Mr H
The mortgage is a joint mortgage, so the removal of Mr H is a material change. As 
such, MCOB 11.7 doesnt apply and MCOB 11.6.3 relates to variations that are not 
material changes. In summary, they said this contract variation (to remove Mr H from 
the property) is judged to be material therefore in the customers best interest an 
affordability assessment is required so they cannot rely on MCOB 11.7
They said they need to ensure that Ms Hs equity is not compromised by inability to 
make her monthly payments. They also need to make sure the repayment strategy is 
adequate
As prescribed by MCOB rules they have in place a lending policy outlining how they 
deal with contract variation and product switches including evidence of income for 
assessment affordability. In summary, Hanley said it would be unreasonable and 
irresponsible of them to take into account un-evidenced income as a basis of their 
assessment and credit granting decisions. They are aware from the court order that 
the remaining maintenance will be stopping in four years time which is before the 
mortgage term expires.  This will leave Ms H with no income at all that can be 
evidenced. Their lending policy stipulates that they will not consider funding sources 
that are not reliable so they will only accept 25%
Ms Hs own pension would not be sufficient to repay the interest only balance of 
£126,000
Their policy only allows parents or spouses as guarantors Ms H is not paying the mortgage on her own because she is receiving maintenance 
payments from Mr H. Some of the maintenance stopped in May 2021 and the rest 
will stop in May 2025  four years before the mortgage term ends in 2029
Ms H will need to sell her home as over the years there is no evidence of stable 
income from the work that she does. Hanley said prolonging potential financial 
difficulty by continuing with this mortgage is not the best outcome for her
As Hanley disagreed with our investigator, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is a very difficult and stressful time for Ms H and understand that both her 
and Mr H would just like to move forward get things resolved. I have also noted that Hanley 
also understand this and are thinking about what is best for Ms H in the long run.
I have thought very carefully about what both Ms H and Hanley have told us. Hanley have 
given a lot of detail as to why they disagree with what our investigator has said. I want to 
assure Hanley and Ms H that I have taken into account everything they have both said, but if 
there is something that I havent mentioned, its not because it hasnt been considered  it 
has. Ive thought carefully about the arguments that both Hanley and Ms H have made. But 
our service is an informal one, which means I may just focus on what I consider to be key to 
the complaint.
The issue here is that Ms H wants to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage, but Hanley 
have declined the application. Hanley have some serious concerns about Ms H being able to 
afford the mortgage on her own as they dont agree that she has been paying the mortgage 
solely on her own for the last few years  because she has relied on maintenance payments 
from Mr H. 
Ms H has had to put her property on the market for £575,000 because she feels she has no 
other way to ensure that Mr H is taken off the mortgage. She feels that she has had no 
choice but to do this and has explained that she and her children are very stressed and 
upset by this, especially the upheaval for her younger child who has a disability. Ive had to 
think very carefully, taking the relevant rules and regulations into account, to decide what I 
think is fair and reasonable in order to resolve this complaint.
There are rules in place that have followed on from the FCAs (Financial Conduct 
Authoritys) Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, 
effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules have 
brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers 
and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that 
existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgages might have difficulties 
with this if they passed the tests under the old rules, but not under the new rules. So the 
FCA introduced certain rules to address this.
MCOB 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing, 
(other than for product fees) and no changes to the terms of the mortgage that affect 
affordability.
In response to our investigators opinion, Hanley have talked about this rule at length and 
said that removing a borrower was a change to the terms of the mortgage which are material 
to affordability. So they felt they were correct to carry out an affordability assessment. I dont 
think that this in itself was unreasonable. Our investigator thought that Hanley should waive the affordability assessment under the 
transitional arrangements introduced by the FCA as part of the MMR.
The transitional arrangements, at MCOB 11.7.1, say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if:
- The borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;
- The application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing  except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add fees to the balance;
- Theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; 
and 
- The proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests.
So under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would be in the customers best interests. But the 
lender can take the assessment into account as part of their consideration of best interests.
Ms H and her ex-partner took the mortgage out in around 2004  before 26 April 2014. They 
are not requesting any further borrowing and Ive seen nothing to suggest they had borrowed 
more since 26 April 2014. With this in mind, if moving the mortgage to Ms Hs sole name 
was in her best interest, then I agree with the investigator that Hanley could choose not to 
carry out an affordability assessment and proceed.
I do understand and I do think its reasonable for Hanley to think carefully about whether 
removing Mr H was in Ms Hs best interests. Hanley doesnt agree that the change is in their 
best interests because it would leave Ms H solely responsible for paying the mortgage. 
Hanley has said because of her circumstances, the risk to Ms H is much greater because 
she wouldnt always have assistance from Mr H, and because she has income that they 
cannot verify. So their concerns about whether to change the mortgage into Ms Hs sole 
name still lies with affordability.
While the affordability of the ongoing mortgage is an important factor, its not the only one. 
Ms H has said she has been separated since 2009 and has been living on her own with her 
children. This mortgage continues to bind their financial affairs and they have a court order 
from their divorce that states Ms H should release Mr H from the mortgage. I accept the 
point that Hanley have made in that the court order was from 2016 and Ms H has waited 
until 2021 to do this, but this was her decision to make  she had the time to do it and she 
enquired when she thought she still had time to sort things out. 
I have said that Hanley didnt have to carry out an affordability assessment, but Ive looked 
at what Ms H has as an income, to ensure that Ms H can afford the monthly mortgage 
payments. The reason for this is because it wouldnt be in her best interests to have the 
mortgage in her sole name if she cant actually afford it.
Ms H has told us what she receives by way of income. She said she receives £856 in 
maintenance from Mr H and I acknowledge this amount is different to what was mentioned 
on the court order. Some of the child maintenance for £300 stopped in May this year, so its 
clear that Ms H does not receive this. The court order for the divorce settlement confirms 
that Mr H is to pay 16% of his salary until their youngest child is 18  this will be in four 
years time (2025). 
Ms H gets £142 tax credits per week and £80 in child benefits and Hanley will only accept 
25% of these benefits. Ms H has also told us that she receives other income for private work 
she does that she cannot evidence in the way that Hanley would like her to. I dont think its 
reasonable that Hanley only accept a portion of the benefits income that Ms H has stated because of their lending policies. Its only fair to include all income that Ms H is getting.  
Irrespective of the fact that she has paid the mortgage from money that is paid to her in 
maintenance, she has still paid the mortgage. And even though a portion of this stopped in 
May 2021, she is still getting maintenance payments for another four years.  And I note that 
Hanley have said Ms H and Mr H required assistance previously, but Ms H has managed to 
maintain the monthly payments since. I believe that Ms H has demonstrated that she is able 
to afford the payments of £401 per month and I think her income supports this. Her income 
from her benefits alone is over £600 per month and this does not include the maintenance 
payments she receives from Mr H or the additional income she gets from her private work. 
So based on what I have seen, I think Ms H is able to afford the monthly payments. 
Hanley believe that Ms H is unable to afford this mortgage on her own and they have 
concerns that the rest of the maintenance will be stopping in 2025, and the mortgage term 
isnt ending until 2029. There are a number of things that can happen during that time and 
Ms H said there is a possibility she could also go back to work once her children are older. 
Hanley are understandably concerned that this puts Ms H at risk and they want to ensure 
there is enough equity in the property should things go wrong. I dont think the removal of Mr 
H is unfair to Hanley as the loan is still secured against the property and, whilst I hope it 
doesnt come to that, Hanley can still enforce possession of the security should they need to. 
The property is on the market for £575,000 and even if it was valued below that amount in 
the future, the mortgage balance is around £145,000 with £126,000 of that being on interest 
only  so there is more than enough equity in the property. As Ms H has now put her 
property on the market, this demonstrates to me that she would do it again if she had to. But 
I dont think selling her property right now and having the additional stress and pressure and 
upheaval of her children is in her best interests. She has explained one of her children has a 
disability and if she needed to move in years to come, her children would be older and in a 
better place to be able to deal with the move. 
Taking everything into account and the circumstances of both Ms H and Mr H, I dont think 
Hanley have treated them fairly by declining to transfer the mortgage into the sole name of 
Ms H. I think allowing this change would be in both of their best interests. I think the 
transitional arrangements allowed Hanley to proceed with the change, without being 
constrained by the new affordability rules and I think it would have been fair of them to do so. 
So in order to put things right, I think Hanley should remove Mr H from the mortgage and 
approve the application.
However, the position at term end will be no different to what it is now as the majority of the 
mortgage is on interest only. So, Ms H will need to think about what she does at this time 
because the mortgage will need to be repaid.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Hanley Economic Building 
Society to remove Mr H from the mortgage account as he and Ms H have both requested.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman