DRN-3752367
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with his claim for damage 
following an escape of water at his home. 
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Below is a summary of what happened and doesnt therefore include a full timeline or list of 
every point thats been made. 
Mr D has a home insurance policy with Aviva. 
In March 2022 Mr D says he came home to find the hallway floor covered in water. He 
checked where the water was coming from and saw it was from behind the dishwasher 
where one of the pipes had come away and broken off. 
Mr D repaired the leak himself and then contacted Aviva to claim for the damage caused by 
the water on 10 March 2022. 
Mr D says Aviva arranged for a site visit in May 2022. And this was followed by a call from a 
loss adjustor appointed by Aviva. 
Mr D says when he spoke to Aviva and the loss adjustors appointed by Aviva he was 
accused of making a fraudulent claim. And so Mr D withdrew the claim and told Aviva he 
was going to get the repairs done himself. Mr D complained to Aviva. 
Aviva said its loss adjustors carried out a site visit and reported back on the damage. Aviva 
required more information regarding the cause of the damage and so it arranged for one of 
its loss adjustors to speak with Mr D to discuss the incident further. Aviva said it needed to 
be satisfied the damage was caused by an insurable event and so needed to investigate the 
claim. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response and so referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him and said he thought Aviva had acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He did feel there was 
some delay in dealing with the claim and so said Aviva should pay Mr D £100 to reflect those 
delays. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with the investigators view. He said the damage to his property 
remained and he wanted it to be repaired.  Aviva also disputed there had been any delays. 
And so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation he finds himself in. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. 
My role isnt to decide the claim and cause of damage. My role is to look at whether Aviva 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
There is a lot of information about the claim Mr D made, and Ive looked through what Ive 
been provided. The detail is well-known to both parties so I havent described the claim in 
any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain my 
decision. It is also not my intention to minimise the effect the claim has had on Mr D and his 
physical and mental health. I recognise the impact the matter has had I empathise with the 
difficulties he has clearly faced. 
Accusations of a fraudulent claim 
Mr D has alleged Aviva and the firm of loss adjustors accused him of making a fraudulent 
claim. I have listened to the calls between Mr D and Aviva, and also between Mr D and the 
loss adjustors. 
Based on what Ive seen here I cant see any evidence to corroborate what Mr D has alleged 
about the accusations of fraud. I havent heard anything in the telephone calls referring to 
fraud or heard anyone at Aviva or the loss adjustors saying Mr D had made a fraudulent 
claim. And so Im not able to uphold this part of the complaint.  
Delays and actions of the loss adjustor 
The leak in Mr Ds home was reported in early March 2022 but the loss adjustors didnt 
attend the property or provide their report until May 2022. So I can see there was some 
delay here, albeit minimal. 
Aviva appointed loss adjustors to validate the claim. I think this is reasonable given the 
extent of the damage to Mr Ds property. Aviva explained the claim was being investigated 
between the time it was reported to when the loss adjustors attended the property. So I 
agree there has been some slight delay here. 
Mr D wants the damage at his home repaired. But he has withdrawn his claim with Aviva. Mr 
D has said he thought our service would deal with the repair issue however this isnt within 
our remit. Our role is to look at the service Mr D has received from Aviva and look at whether 
it has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr D but overall I think Aviva has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. Putting things right
To compensate Mr D for the delays in dealing with the claim Aviva should pay £100 in 
compensation. I say this because its not clear what happened after the initial call in March to 
when the claim was picked up again in April. And its clear to me the impact on him of that 
has caused particular stress and upset to Mr D. Im therefore satisfied £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £100 in 
resolution of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman