DRN-2834843
The complaint
Mr J complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) caused delays to the transfer 
of his pension plan, causing him financial loss.
All dates in this decision are in 2020 unless otherwise stated.
What happened
Mr J was formerly a member of a defined benefit scheme arranged through his employer. 
In 2015 this was transferred to a bulk annuity contract which was administered by PIC. In 
early March 2020 PIC received a request for a transfer pack from Mr Js Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA). The IFA had enclosed a letter of authority signed by Mr J saying he 
(the IFA) could act on Mr Js behalf. The transfer pack was issued to the IFA on 9 March.
The transfer pack included a quotation document providing a Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value (CETV) for Mr Js pension, which was £38,558 as of 9 March. This said the CETV 
wasnt guaranteed and the final payment would be recalculated based on market conditions 
at the time the transfer is paid. A covering letter explained because the CETV was over 
£30,000 the IFA had to confirm the following before the transfer could proceed:
the advice is specific to the type of transfer Mr J was proposing.
the adviser has permission under Part 4 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000to carry on the regulated activity.
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number of the company the adviser 
works for.
Mr Js name and policy number.
the adviser has no links to the transferring scheme/ provider.
Section A of the quotation document required Mr J to confirm: [he] received independent 
financial advice about transferring my pension and I have enclosed confirmation from my 
independent financial adviser (on their headed paper) that I have received appropriate 
advice. This includes all of the requirements listed in your [PICs] covering letter. The 
completed quotation document was signed and dated by Mr J on 14 April and he ticked the 
box in section A to confirm hed obtained advice. 
On 15 April Mr J called PIC. Amongst other things, the agent explained to Mr J that if he 
didnt have the original paperwork, he could submit a lost policy declaration instead. It was 
also agreed an electronic identity check could be done to avoid the need for Mr J to send in 
original identification documents. 
Mr J posted the signed paperwork on the same day (15 April). However, the receiving 
scheme sent the signed transfer paperwork on 21 April and this was stamped received by 
PIC on Friday, 24 April. The receiving scheme confirmed it was willing to accept the transfer 
and it enclosed the quotation documents that had been signed by Mr J. Two working days 
later on 28 April, PIC wrote to Mr J to explain it couldnt proceed until it received the original 
policy document or a completed lost policy form. PIC also said it needed a letter from his IFA 
confirming Mr J had received advice.
On 1 May Mr J called PIC to check on the progress of the transfer at which point he raised a 
complaint about the delays. He also said hed been given incorrect guidance when he 
discussed the process on 15 April.
On 4 May PIC recorded receiving all the documents it needed to proceed. When it did a 
recalculation the CETV had decreased, so one of its agents called Mr J to see whether he 
still wanted to go ahead with the transfer. During the call it was explained to Mr J that the 
CETV was now £32,261. Mr J confirmed he still wanted to proceed with the transfer, and the 
funds were transferred on 5 May.
PIC rejected Mr Js complaint saying it had clearly explained to him the process and it 
couldnt be held responsible for any delays. It said that the decrease in the CETV had been 
due to a number of factors including the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the markets in 
early 2020. Mr J remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he 
made the following points:
It wasnt clearly explained that he would need to submit the original documents or the 
lost policy form. He was led to believe all he needed to do was have the identification 
checks completed which could be done electronically without the original documents. 
His IFA had already shown he was acting for Mr J and he (Mr J) had confirmed he 
had received independent advice. PIC caused delays by asking for this again. 
He posted the transfer documents on 15 April, yet PIC only recorded receiving the 
documents on 24 April. He questioned PICs account of what happened and said it 
deliberately caused delays in reviewing his transfer pack.
He wanted written details from PIC of where his pension funds were invested and 
how Covid-19 has directly caused those assets to decrease in value.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He was satisfied PIC wasnt 
responsible for the delays and had provided Mr J with clear, fair, and not misleading 
information throughout the whole process. Our investigator explained to Mr J that our service 
doesnt provide an actuarial service. And that from what he could see, PIC had provided him 
(Mr J) with adequate information about why the CETV fell as it did. 
Mr J disagreed. He added further points to the ones above as follows:
The value should not have decreased as the annual pension payable by PIC was 
stated to be at no investment risk.
PIC guaranteed the transfer values for three months but he cant find the paperwork 
to support this. However, he has shown a quotation from PIC from June 2015 which 
clearly shows a three month guarantee period for an earlier quotation.
The Chief Executive of PIC has said it ended the financial year of 2020/ 21 in a 
strong position, so Mr J didnt believe the CETV should have reduced as it did. 
PIC should have accepted the IFAs letter of authority as evidence of him (Mr J) 
receiving advice.
Our investigator didnt think anything Mr J had said or provided had changed his view. So, 
Mr J asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I'm very aware that I've summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I've 
done so using my own words. I'm not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved - no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead I've focused on what I think are 
the key issues here. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what 
happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
As our investigator has explained, because Mr Js pension with PIC contained certain 
guarantees, and the CETV was over £30,000, he (Mr J) needed to obtain independent 
advice from a suitably qualified adviser. Mr J was told this in the initial PIC transfer pack in 
the covering letter and the declaration he ticked said that he had met the requirements as 
set out in the covering letter. 
Mr J says PIC shouldve accepted he had already received advice because he, himself, had 
confirmed it. Further, his IFA had requested a transfer value quote and provided a letter of 
authority. But in my view, PIC made it reasonably clear in its covering letter what was 
required. Given this was to comply with its legal duties under Section 48 of the Pension 
Schemes Act 2015, I think PIC was acting reasonably when it said it couldnt transfer without 
specific confirmation from Mr Js IFA confirming independent advice had been provided.
In terms of what Mr J says about complying with the instructions given by PIC during a call 
on 15 April, I think the agent clearly explained to him (Mr J) what needed to be provided in 
terms of the lost policy form or the original policy documents. I dont think the agent provided 
any confusing or misleading information about this requirement. I also consider the agent 
made it clear that the electronic part he was referring to, was about the identity checks. 
Once everything was received, the transfer happened within one day. I also note that PIC 
checked the forms it was sent, without any delay. It responded to Mr J enclosing a new copy 
of the lost policy form within two working days of receipt of the transfer documents. So, I 
dont think PIC caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr J questions the integrity of PIC because it says it didnt receive the transfer documents 
until 24 April. He says he sent the signed quotation document to PIC on 15 April. However, 
from what I can see, the transfer documents including parts completed by Mr J, were 
submitted by the receiving scheme with its covering letter dated 21 April. I can hear that Mr J 
knew this would be the case from the call he had with the PIC agent on 15 April. During this 
call, there was a discussion about the part of the quotation/ transfer document titled 
Application to proceed  receiving arrangement. The agent explained to Mr J that the 
receiving scheme and not Mr J, needed to complete and return this to PIC. 
All in all, I think its likely the signed transfer forms were returned to PIC by the receiving 
scheme once it completed its section and that this was sent on 21 April. As Ive said, PIC 
responded to Mr J within two working days of receipt. So, under all the circumstances, I dont 
think PIC deliberately delayed matters as Mr J has suggested.
I also dont think theres any basis for me to ask PIC to recalculate the CETV. It was made 
clear to Mr J in the transfer documents that this wasnt guaranteed. PIC also notified him that 
the CETV would be recalculated before it was paid. And it could be higher or lower than the 
initial quote. I think PIC acted fairly by contacting Mr J letting him know of the fall in value so 
that he could make an informed choice as to whether he still wanted to proceed.
I dont think any guarantee was given about the CETV remaining in force for three months as 
it had done in an earlier quote from 2015. If Mr J had believed this guarantee period applied 
to the 2020 quote, I would question why he didnt raise this with PIC sooner given the figure quoted (in 2020) said it wasnt guaranteed. On balance, I dont think its likely PIC 
guaranteed the CETV for three months or gave Mr J the impression that it would be.
I know Mr J says his pension should not have been subject to investment risk. But this only 
applied if he remained in the plan he had with PIC. This didnt apply to the CETV. The 
calculations upon which the CETV was based, was subject to a number of factors including 
market conditions. This was all clearly explained to Mr J in the transfer documents and in 
subsequent correspondence, particularly PICs letter dated 1 July 2020.
Mr J wants our service to carry out an independent assessment of PICs calculations. But as 
our investigator said, our service doesnt provide an actuarial service. PIC has provided Mr J 
with detailed information about why the transfer value decreased. This was all provided in 
the letter dated 1 July which, amongst other things, sets out details of how the transfer value 
was calculated, together with a table showing how the transfer value fluctuated over time.
From what I can see PIC has provided clear, fair, and not misleading information about why 
the transfer value had decreased. Its explanations are reasonable given the context of what 
was happening to the markets in or around March/ April 2020. It also told Mr J about the 
decrease in the CETV before he decided to transfer. I appreciate Mr J thinks PICs Chief 
Executives statement contradicts its own analysis of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic 
on the performance of its funds. But I dont think anything in this statement meant a 
decrease to the CETV wasnt warranted at a particular point in time. 
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman