DRN-2648627
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs H booked a UK-based holiday. They were due to travel on 23 
April 2020. They took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover their holiday on 10 
March 2020.
However, on 23 March 2020, the UK government placed the country into a national 
lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that people could only leave 
their homes for one of a list of specified essential reasons. Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip 
on 19 March 2020. Their accommodation provider refunded half of their booking costs. So 
Mr and Mrs H made a claim for the remaining balance of £1108.20. Their claim form stated 
their trip had been cancelled because non-essential travel was no longer permitted.
Ageas turned down the claim. It said that the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover 
Mr and Mrs Hs situation. And it also said the policy specifically excluded claims where a 
government had imposed prohibitive restrictions.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
cancellation section of the policy covered cancellation because a policyholder was in 
quarantine. Ageas hadnt included a definition of quarantine in the policy wording. She felt a 
reasonable person would interpret following the governments lockdown rules and 
quarantine to be the same thing. And so she considered that Mr and Mrs Hs claim was 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy. She recommended that Ageas should 
reassess Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ageas disagreed. It said that there was no suggestion that Mr and Mrs H had had Covid-19 
and their circumstances didnt fall within the Cambridge dictionary definition of quarantine. 
And it maintained that Mr and Mrs H hadnt travelled because of government-imposed travel 
restrictions which arent a listed insured event under the cancellation section of the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ageas has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim when considering 
whether Ageas handled their claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, as this forms the 
basis of their contract with Ageas. The Cancellation and Curtailment section states:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the
unused portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid
or contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a
full refund if you cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and
return home early during the period of insurance because of the following:
1.the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip. 
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation invoice that their accommodation provider only 
paid them a refund for half the amount theyd paid. So theyre claiming for a partial refund of 
their unused pre-paid accommodation costs.
Ageas maintains that Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances dont fall within the scope of cover for 
quarantine. It says that Mr and Mrs Hs claim form explained that theyd cancelled their trip 
because non-essential travel was no longer permitted. It also referred to the following 
dictionary definition of quarantine:
A specific period of time in which a person or animal that has a disease, or may have one, 
must stay or be kept away from others in order to prevent the spread of the disease.
Ageas says that as Mr and Mrs H didnt have symptoms of Covid-19, their claim doesnt fall 
within this definition.
Ive thought carefully about what Ageas has said and about the situation at the time. In a 
statement on 16 March 2020, the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop 
non-essential contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. On 23 March 2020, the 
UK government introduced a nationwide lockdown. This lockdown was extended for a further 
three weeks on 16 April 2020  meaning Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been able to take their 
trip.  
Ageas hasnt set out what it means by quarantine in the definitions section of its policy. Its 
referred to the definition Ive set out above. On the other hand, another dictionary defines 
quarantine as a period of isolation or detention, especially of persons arriving from abroad, 
to prevent the spread of disease, usually consisting of the maximum known incubation of the 
suspected disease. While I accept there may be differences between the dictionary 
definitions of quarantine, they both refer to people being kept away from others to prevent 
the spread of disease. 
Ive also taken into account what I think is the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word as 
well as the context in which quarantine is used within the policy wording. Im satisfied that, 
following the government announcements which Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs H were in 
imposed isolation to prevent the spread of disease, regardless of whether or not they had 
symptoms. This isolation also prevented Mr and Mrs H themselves being exposed to Covid-
19. I think a reasonable person would therefore consider Mr and Mrs H as being in quarantine 
and that this was the reason they were unable to travel. So I think the key issue here is that 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs claim are covered under their policy with Ageas. This 
means Ive concluded it was unfair for it to turn down their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to reassess Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy and taking into account any applicable excess.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman