DRN-3583165
The complaint
Mr H complains that A J Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) havent been able to claim the 
HMRC bonus due on contributions he made to his lifetime ISA (LISA).
What happened
Mr H has had a LISA with a provider that Ill call X since April 2017. In late 2018 he asked 
AJ Bell to transfer the LISA to them. But although AJ Bell received the LISA funds from X, 
the old LISA didnt get closed down. Instead, AJ Bell created a new, second LISA.
That meant Mr H had two active LISAs at the start of the 2019/ 2020 tax year. While people 
are allowed to have two LISAs, they only receive a HMRC bonus from contributions to one of 
them in any given tax year.
With that said, it appears Mr H successfully received bonuses for the contributions hed 
made to both his LISA with X and his LISA with AJ Bell in the 2018/ 2019 tax year. It 
appears that X and AJ Bell regard that as a mistake on HMRCs part. The contributions to 
the AJ Bell LISA shouldnt have been eligible for a bonus at that point, because they were 
being made to a new LISA, rather than one that had been properly transferred from X.
After setting up the LISA with AJ Bell, Mr H made a further contribution to the LISA with X, in 
the summer of 2019.
Ive asked Mr H why he did that. Hes said he thought he was paying into a new LISA with X, 
not the one hed already transferred to AJ Bell. He says he intended to make the contribution 
to X at that point, even though he also had the LISA with AJ Bell.
Mr H received the HMRC bonus for his contribution to the LISA with X. That then locked his 
LISA with AJ Bell, such that any contribution made to it in the same tax year wouldnt receive 
the HMRC bonus.
Thats possibly compounded the earlier mistake and made it difficult to reverse what 
happened in late 2018/ early 2019. Unpicking mistakes in the late 2018 transfer may need 
the payments made in the 2019/ 2020 tax year to be reworked.
In late 2019, Mr H again asked AJ Bell to transfer his LISA over from X. They did that, but 
there was a further error  X told HMRC their LISA was closed, rather than leaving it for 
AJ Bell to report as transferred. That meant that HMRC later rejected AJ Bells attempts to 
register the transfer of the LISA to them. It seems that as far as HMRC were concerned, the 
LISA with X had been closed before the late 2019 transfer took place.
Mr H then contributed to the AJ Bell LISA on 30 January 2020. But because the transfer 
hadnt been registered with HMRC the LISA still had the locked status. So Mr H didnt 
receive the HMRC bonus.
On 4 February 2020, AJ Bell told Mr H the transfer was complete, and hed shortly receive 
his HMRC bonuses. That wasnt the case.
When the bonuses didnt arrive, Mr H complained. That led to discussions between X and 
AJ Bell. X said they applied to HMRC and successfully had their LISA reinstated in 
April 2020, to undo their error saying it had been closed. But AJ Bell say they havent been 
able to resolve the problem, and need either HMRC or X to do something else to fix things. 
They appear to be trying to fix more than just the late 2019 transfer. Their comments speak 
about the first transfer in late 2018, which  as Ive noted  had some issues too.
AJ Bell say they made a £50 ex gratia payment to Mr H, but with no bonus in sight he 
decided to come to us. Ive made two provisional decisions for this case. My most recent one 
explained that the issue with the bonus seemed to be caused by Mr H making a payment to 
his AJ Bell LISA while it still had the locked status. And I explained how that could have 
been avoided if AJ Bell had been clearer about what was happening with his transfer. 
That led me to say AJ Bell should compensate Mr H for the lost HMRC bonus, and for the 
confusion and inconvenience caused by this issue. Mr H accepted that decision, but AJ Bell 
didnt. They said they felt mistakes made by other people or organisations were more to 
blame than them. They also explained that their email in February 2020 was just to confirm 
funds had been received, not that the LISA transfer had been successfully reported to 
HMRC. And they said they had no record of contact with Mr H about his plan to contribute to 
his LISA in January 2020. 
With these comments  and the information previously received by our investigation  Im 
now able to make my final decision for this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. My reasoning remains as set out in 
my last provisional decision. Ill confirm the key points here, but add some explanations to 
show why AJ Bells latest comments dont lead me to a different conclusion. 
If someone has an active LISA and transfers it into a locked one, that will lead to the LISA 
that remains having a status of active. That means the remaining LISA would be able to 
receive a bonus for any contributions made after the transfer was completed.
Mr Hs problem here is that he made his LISA contribution in January 2020, before the 
transfer process was completed by AJ Bell. AJ Bell couldnt have completed the transfer by 
that point because X had wrongly reported their LISA as closed. As far as HMRC was 
concerned, that meant the LISA with X couldnt be transferred.
Sorting out the mistake made by X wasnt entirely AJ Bells responsibility. The first step was 
for X to have their closed LISA reinstated. The documents Ive seen tell me that wasnt done 
until April 2020. From that point on though, AJ Bell needed to start trying to have HMRC 
register the transfer properly. 
Im not convinced theyve done that. The correspondence from the time talked about trying 
to claim Mr Hs missing bonus  impossible without first registering the transfer. Or it talked 
about correcting the mistakes that arose from the first transfer in late 2018/ early 2019  
possibly much more complicated than registering the late 2019 transfer. 
Ive thought about whether AJ Bell should ignore the problems with the late 2018 transfer, 
and just get on with concluding the late 2019 one. But AJ Bell do have a duty as an ISA manager to make sure Mr Hs account has been managed correctly. Here, they can see that 
Mr H received two bonuses for two separate LISAs in the 2018/ 2019 tax year. That isnt as 
it should be. AJ Bell do need to take steps to correct that with HMRC.
But getting back to the problem with the absent bonus, as things stand Mr Hs contributions 
in January 2020 arent eligible for a bonus from HMRC. Thats because they were made too 
soon  before the LISA transfer had been completed. 
Mr H says he made the contributions on 30 January 2020 because AJ Bell had led him to 
believe the transfer was complete. But this is now a disputed point  in response to my 
provisional decision, AJ Bell say they have no record of contact with Mr H prior to his 
January 2020 LISA contribution. So I need to decide which position is  more likely than not 
 the correct one. 
I can see that on 4 February 2020  three working days after Mr H made his contribution  
AJ Bell emailed him to say his LISA transfer was complete. AJ Bell have said this reflected 
the receipt of the LISA funds from X. But I think those funds were actually received much 
earlier. In their timeline of events  seen in an email to AJ Bell on 6 August 2020  X said the 
funds were sent over on 31 December 2019. 
So it seems likely to me that if Mr H had contacted AJ Bell for an update around the end of 
January, hed have been given a similar message to what the February email said  the 
funds had been received, so the transfer was complete. Thats consistent with what Mr H 
says he was told, so adds weight to his position, in my view. 
I also note that an email AJ Bell sent on 1 November 2019  confirming the instruction to 
have Mr Hs LISA with X transferred to them  said Mr H could track the progress of the 
transfer online. Again, given the funds were sent to AJ Bell on 31 December 2019, and that 
the receipt of those funds prompted AJ Bell to call the transfer complete, it seems likely to 
me that the online service would have said the transfer was complete on 30 January 2020. 
I also note a lack of updates or correspondence showing AJ Bell informing Mr H there was a 
problem with this transfer. More generally, it seems unwise to me to have called this transfer 
complete before it was registered with HMRC. I can see how that would lead someone to 
think they could make a LISA contribution and receive a bonus, when in fact the LISA still 
had the locked status. 
On balance, I find it more likely than not that the information Mr H had from AJ Bell by 
30 January 2020 did lead him to believe his transfer  requested nearly three months earlier 
 had been completed. He certainly had nothing from AJ Bell that told him a contribution at 
that point wouldnt qualify for the bonus he was expecting. 
Thats where AJ Bells service has been unreasonable in this case. As part of the work to 
transfer Mr Hs LISA over from X, they should have been keeping Mr H accurately informed 
about what was happening. They shouldnt have said the transfer was complete just 
because the LISA funds had been received and added to Mr Hs LISA with AJ Bell. Theres 
another step to the process  registering the transfer with HMRC so that the remaining LISA 
has the right status. 
That last step had a problem. And I agree, AJ Bell didnt directly cause that problem. But 
they should have noticed it. And they should have told Mr H about it. And they should  
certainly by now  have figured out how to fix it. Thinking about the impact those failings had 
on Mr H leads me to say AJ Bell should act now to put things right. Putting things right
My starting point has been to think about how things would be different if AJ Bell had 
provided Mr H with a more reasonable level of service in this case. 
If AJ Bell had been clearer with Mr H that contributing to his LISA in January 2020 wouldnt 
lead to a HMRC bonus being paid, I can see he could have acted differently and so gained 
the bonus. He could have tried to reverse the transfer, make the contribution to the LISA with 
X, and then redo the transfer. Or he could have waited until the following tax year, when the 
AJ Bell LISA would again have become active, and eligible to receive a bonus.
In either case, his £3,000 contribution would have qualified for a £750 bonus. He could then 
have invested that bonus in his LISA, and received whatever gains on it his overall LISA 
achieved. So thats how much of a loss hes suffered as a result of the unreasonable service 
from AJ Bell in this case.
To put that right, AJ Bell should ensure Mr Hs LISA has the benefit of that £750, plus the 
growth that amount would have achieved within the LISA since early 2020. 
The exact date Mr H would have been able to gain the bonus isnt clear, as I cant say 
exactly how hed have got it. But Im inclined to pick 6 April 2020  the start of the financial 
year  as even if the transfer couldnt have been sorted out by then, Mr Hs LISA would have 
automatically reset to active status at that point.
AJ Bell may be able to make use of the HMRC bonus to achieve this result. For example a 
payment of £600 into Mr Hs LISA will gain a bonus of £150, so giving Mr H £750 overall. I 
find thats fair to him and to AJ Bell, so Id be happy with that approach being taken.
It could also be the case that AJ Bell are eventually able to fix all the problems that began 
with the transfer in late 2018. That may lead to Mr Hs LISA naturally benefiting from the 
bonus hes currently missing. But I feel AJ Bell have had enough time to try and get that to 
work, so that possibility shouldnt delay their paying Mr H the remedy Im directing. But that 
remedy should go ahead with the understanding that if Mr H later receives the money hes 
being compensated for here, he should undertake to reimburse AJ Bell what has been paid 
as remedy for the loss of that amount.
On top of all that is the confusion and inconvenience caused for Mr H by this issue. I noted 
last time that AJ Bells explanations and handling of the matter to date hadnt particularly 
helped to either resolve or clarify the problem. In recognition of the ongoing trouble and 
upset thats caused, I find AJ Bell should pay some further compensation to Mr H personally.
 
Last time I suggested £250 was a suitable amount for this. Im still of the view thats right. It 
recognises the impact described above, and the time its taken to sort everything out. Given 
AJ Bell have already made a £50 payment to Mr H along these lines, theres £200 to pay to 
meet this part of the remedy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about A J Bell Management Limited. To resolve this 
complaint, they should add to Mr Hs LISA so that its value is higher by £750, plus the 
amount of gain that £750 would have achieved in Mr Hs LISA since 6 April 2020. A J Bell 
Management Limited should also separately pay Mr H a total of £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused for him by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman