DRN-2872620
The complaint
Mr S says Interactive Investor Services Limited is responsible for the delays he experienced 
when trying to withdraw funds from his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and for 
generally poor handling in its dealings with him. He said this had caused him trouble and 
stress.
What happened
Mr S previously held a pension with Alliance Trust Savings (ATS). Following the acquisition 
of ATS by Interactive Investor in 2019, his plan was transferred over to the new platform.
On 6 April 2020, Mr S used the platforms secure messaging service to request an ad-hoc
withdrawal of £2,500 from his SIPP. He also informed the business that his plan was already 
in drawdown, having been crystallised while he was at ATS.
Interactive Investor didnt have evidence of Mr Ss drawdown history and required this before 
his request could be processed. He was asked to complete forms to help it action his 
withdrawal. Along the way, questions were also raised about whether his pension had been 
crystallised in full or not.  
On 27 April 2020, Mr S again confirmed his SIPP was already in drawdown. But it wasnt 
until 5 May 2020, Interactive Investor received confirmation of his SIPP history from ATS. It 
then sent his withdrawal request to Barnett Waddingham (BW), its administrator, to action. 
On 29 May 2020, the sum of £2,500 was credited to Mr Ss account. During this time he 
raised a complaint about the service hed received. 
Unfortunately, Mr S needed to contact Interactive Investor again on 30 June 2020 to inform it 
that a further £2,500 had been debited from his SIPP. It confirmed this withdrawal was made 
in error, following a duplication of his original instruction. The funds were returned to his 
account on 15 July 2020.
Interactive Investor responded to Mr Ss complaint on 6 August 2020. It accepted errors had 
been made. In summary, it said:
- Due to an issue which occurred when migrating Mr Ss SIPP from ATS, information 
about his drawdown history hadnt been received.
- The information provide by Mr S by secure message on 6 April 2020, wasnt 
identified until 27 April 2020. It accepted it couldve requested the necessary 
information from ATS sooner had it acted on what Mr S told it on 6 April 2020.
- Due to its administrative error, Mr Ss withdrawal request was duplicated.
- There were multiple errors in processing Mr Ss pension benefit request, which 
meant he had to spend a lot of time on the phone, and responding to secure 
messages, as well as returning documentation.
- There had been an emotional and financial impact on Mr S as a result of the service 
hed received.
Interactive Investor apologised to Mr S and in upholding his complaint paid him £350 as 
compensation for what had happened.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He acknowledged that the apology and 
compensation Interactive Investor had offered him had gone a long way to settling matters. 
But he thought that it should also perform two calculations to give Mr S further assurance 
that he hadnt lost out as a result of its service failures. 
Specifically, the Investigator thought Interactive Investor should award Mr S some interest 
for the loss of use of his drawdown funds between when he might reasonably expect to have 
received them and when he did. He also wanted to make sure he hadnt lost out when it took 
funds from his SIPP in error and hadnt returned them to his account for a just over two 
weeks.
Interactive Investor disagreed. In its response to the Investigators view it said:
I recommend that this complaint is not upheld as IISL have compensated [Mr S] £350
to cover delays, the duplicate payment and any inconvenience caused to [Mr S]. IISL
has also admitted fault and has upheld the original complaint as stated in our Final Decision
LetterI feel that £350 is more than enough to compensate for the time [Mr S] spent 
sending us documents and chasing up his drawdown request. Especially considering
that both errors had no financial detriment to the client it would only be inconvenienced
caused to [Mr S] that would require compensating for.
So, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions and for broadly the same reasons. It 
follows that Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I note that neither party disputes that things went 
wrong, nor broadly what those problems were. So, theres little to be gained from rehearsing 
matters again here. The difference between Interactive Investor and Mr S is what needs to 
happen to put things right. So, thats the focus of my decision.
I start by observing that Interactive Investors offer of £350 redress certainly wasnt far off a 
fair resolution. I think it made a genuine apology and tried to put matters right in good faith. 
Had it provided a little more granularity in terms of its explanation of what its offer covered 
and how, it may have been enough to satisfy Mr S. For example, it couldve done a better 
job of explaining its position on any financial detriment.  
The Investigator thought Interactive Investors offer was broadly in line with what he wouldve 
awarded for the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered as a result of the things it got wrong. But he also concluded there had been a small financial detriment to Mr S because he 
hadnt had the use of his funds when he shouldve. He also thought Interactive Investor 
needed to explain why Mr S hadnt lost out when a further £2,500 had been taken from his 
SIPP to pay the erroneous second drawdown in June 2020 (the funds were returned to his 
SIPP on 15 July 2020).
Given what Interactive Investor has told us about its usual service level standards, I think the 
Investigators conclusion that Mr S should reasonably have expected to receive his 
drawdown payment 22 working days earlier than he did is reasonable. So, he was deprived 
of using his funds for this period. Its not unreasonable for the Investigator to have made an 
award for interest in this situation.
Considering the issue of the duplicate withdrawal; this was debited from Mr Ss account
around 30 June 2020 and returned on 15 July 2020. I note around 15% of his SIPP was in 
cash and presumably this was the source for any drawdown payments. 
The question the Investigator posed for Interactive Investor then - was there any financial 
loss to Mr S as a result? For example, if the funds did come from his cash fund, did this 
enjoy interest? If it did then the Investigator wanted it to work out any investment loss 
incurred on the £2,500 for the period in question. If no interest was paid on his cash account, 
then it needed to confirm this. Again, I dont find it unreasonable for the Investigator to have 
required this calculation.
I should note that any sums involved here are tiny. It wouldnt be in either parties interest to 
draw these matters out any longer.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. To put matters right I require Interactive Investor Services 
Limited to:
- Pay 8% simple interest on the pension withdrawal of £2,500 between the date it 
shouldve reasonably been paid and the date it was actually received, to compensate 
Mr S for the loss of use of his funds.
- Confirm for Mr S the source funds from which the duplicate payment was taken from 
his SIPP around 30 June 2020. And to calculate what, if any, lost interest/investment 
return was incurred on the £2,500 until it was returned to his account on 15 July. It 
should compensate him for any loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If you consider that youre required by HM
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, you should tell Mr S 
how much youve taken off. You should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
I understand that Interactive Investor has already paid Mr S the £350 redress it awarded 
him. If this is not the case, it should now do so as payment for the trouble and upset it 
caused him through its failings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require Interactive 
Investor Services Limited to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Kevin WilliamsonOmbudsman