DRN-2151386
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc charged interest and fees on his credit cards 
despite being on a debt management plan.
What happened
Mr C had several credit cards and payday loans. He was struggling to meet his repayments 
and asked for help from a free to use debt management company (DMC). The DMC 
communicated directly with the credit companies on Mr Cs behalf to agree payment plans to 
clear his debt. He paid the DMC an agreed monthly sum, all of which it used to pay a fair 
proportion to each of the credit companies. 
Mr C had two Capital One credit cards with credit limits of £200 and £750. I wont refer to the 
cards individually because Mr C and Capital One handled each account in a broadly similar 
way.
Mr C was over his credit limit on both cards. The DMC contacted Capital One to agree a 
payment plan and it stopped interest, fees and charges on the cards. Once the cards were 
back within the credit limits, Capital One started charging interest and fees again. 
Over 15 months, the DMC made five requests to Capital One to agree a payment plan. On 
two occasions it agreed a plan and then cancelled it when the card was back within the 
credit limit. On three occasions it rejected the request for a plan because the proposed 
monthly payment was more than Mr Cs contractual minimum payment. 
All correspondence was between the DMC and Capital One, although Capital One also 
wrote to Mr C when it stopped the plans. He didnt access his online statements.
After 15 months, Mr C realised his debt hadnt come down as much as he thought it 
shouldve done so he contacted Capital One. Capital One explained that it stopped the plans 
and started charging interest again because he had paid the arrears on his accounts. Mr C 
believed the plans were in place until he cleared the balance. He asked Capital One to 
refund the interest, fees and charges on the account, but it refused because the charges 
were valid.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
The facts of the case as detailed above arent disputed. What remains for me to decide is 
whether Capital One treated Mr C fairly and whether it shouldve done more to help.
The regulations say that Capital One should take action if it identifies that an account holder 
is struggling with debt. An example of this is when a cardholder is paying more in charges 
than paying off borrowing. Ive looked at the statements for each of Mr Cs accounts and its 
clear that there were months when this happened. Its also clear that he hardly ever moved 
significantly below the credit limit and he was often over the limit. But I think the most 
important factor here is that Mr C told Capital One he was struggling to pay.
Im satisfied that Capital One acted reasonably in the first instance by agreeing to the 
payment plan the DMC offered and stopping interest and charges on Mr Cs account. But I 
dont think it was reasonable for it to stop the arrangement as soon as the cards were back 
within the credit limit. 
I understand that the role of the DMC in this case was to help Mr C clear all his debt and I 
expect Capital One wouldve known that. I accept that there isnt any evidence of an 
agreement between Mr C and Capital One that the plan would remain in place until he 
cleared the balances. But at the point that Capital One started applying interest and charges 
again, it knew that:
he had multiple credit cards and payday loans;
he continued to go over his credit limits after Capital One stopped the payment plan, 
in part because of fees applied, and
the DMC made four more requests for a payment plan after Capital One stopped the 
first plan.
These are all clear indicators that Mr C was in financial difficulty, even after hed got his 
account in better order. So I dont think Capital Ones obligations to treat Mr Cs financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically ended just because his arrears had been cleared.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) expects Capital One to look at the individual 
circumstances and help where it can. On three occasions it rejected Mr Cs offer of a 
payment arrangement because the monthly payments were for more than his contractual 
minimum payment. 
Looked at one way, this could suggest that Mr C was able to meet his payments. But, in the 
individual circumstances here, I think these offers need to be viewed in the wider context of 
what Capital One knew about his situation. The DMC sent electronic requests and Capital 
One responded by adding its comments to the document and returning it to the DMC. So it 
was clear that Mr C was still using a DMC and was asking for a payment plan. I realise that 
in these circumstances, Capital Ones policy means that it may well reject a plan where its 
above the minimum expected payment. Its not for me to tell Capital One to change a policy 
like that, but in the individual circumstances here, I think thats had an unfair impact on Mr C.
Next, Ive thought about whether Mr C mightve been expecting too much from Capital One, 
but I dont think he was. I understand he didnt see his online statements, so he didnt realise 
that his monthly payment to the DMC, and in turn Capital One, wasnt having as much of an 
impact on his balances as he thought it was. I cant hold Capital One responsible for that 
because it made the statements available to him.  However, Ive looked at the statements 
which say the following:
If you are currently on a payment arrangement, please continue to make your 
agreed payments. We won't add any interest or default sums to your account 
whilst you keep to your payment arrangement. Please ignore any other requests 
for payment detailed on your statement until your arrangement has finished.
So, if Mr C had looked at his statements and the letters Capital One sent to him, I dont think 
he would necessarily have thought the interest and fees would be payable because he 
believed he was on a payment plan. That doesnt mean that the information Mr C would 
have seen was wrong but, in line with what Ive said elsewhere in this decision, it doesnt seem fair for Mr C to have been disadvantaged where any misunderstanding was genuine. 
Mr C has clearly tried to be proactive in paying what he owes Capital One.
For clarity, Capital One is not under any obligation to remove interest, fees and charges from 
an account if they have been correctly applied. Nor is it under any obligation to stop charging 
interest and fees even if a customer is struggling to pay. But I think its a reasonable 
expectation in these individual circumstances that Capital One couldve done more to help. 
So, for the reasons Ive given, I think Capital One should refund to Mr Cs two credit card 
accounts any interest, fees and charges applied from October 2018 when he first entered 
into a payment plan with it until January 2020 when Capital One spoke to Mr C and he 
became aware that charges had been applied. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Cs situation when he raised a complaint with Capital One. 
During a call, it appears that Capital One thinks the problems with the payment plans were 
due to Mr C updating his monthly budget with the DMC. I dont agree. I think it was right for 
Mr C to provide up to date information to the DMC and Capital One had a responsibility to 
consider it. It investigated his concerns and sent a final response letter saying it didnt think 
itd done anything wrong. When Capital One sent the letter, Mr C was in a payment plan to 
bring one card back within the limit and the other was just pennies below the credit limit. So, 
I think it shouldve been clear that Mr C was still struggling to pay, yet nothing more was 
done to help him.
In summary, Mr C approached Capital One for help with his financial difficulties. Although it 
took some positive steps, I dont think Capital One went far enough to bear with Mr C while 
he got back on track. I think that Capital One should pay Mr C £125 in recognition of the 
additional stress and inconvenience caused by its failure to fully recognise his financial 
difficulties and its failure to maintain an appropriate payment plan with him.
I said I was intending to:
uphold the complaint and I am minded to require Capital One (Europe) plc to:
refund to each of Mr Cs two Capital One credit card accounts any interest, fees and 
charges applied to them from October 2018 when he first entered into a payment 
plan with it until January 2020 when Capital One spoke to Mr C and he became 
aware that charges had been applied, and 
pay Mr C £125 in recognition of the additional stress and inconvenience caused by 
its failure to fully recognise his financial difficulties and its failure to maintain an 
appropriate payment plan with him or do more to help.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr C responded to say he accepted the provisional decision and hoped Capital One would 
pay 8% interest on the payment it is required to make to him. 
Capital One didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr C mentioned in his acceptance of the provisional decision. I 
understand he will have seen that banks are sometimes asked to pay simple interest on 
refunds to customer accounts. However, in Mr Cs case, Capital One correctly applied the fees, charges and interest to his credit card account. I thought that Capital One couldve 
done more to help which is why Ive asked it to refund the charges. Because it didnt make a 
mistake, I dont think it needs to include interest on top of the refund and Im satisfied that 
the additional payment of £125 to compensate Mr C for the stress and inconvenience 
caused by its failure to fully recognise his financial difficulties is enough.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc must:
refund to each of Mr Cs two Capital One credit card accounts any interest, fees and 
charges applied to them from October 2018 when he first entered into a payment 
plan with it until January 2020 when Capital One spoke to Mr C and he became 
aware that charges had been applied, and 
pay Mr C £125 in recognition of the additional stress and inconvenience caused by 
its failure to fully recognise his financial difficulties and its failure to maintain an 
appropriate payment plan with him or do more to help.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman