DRN-3024336
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of her storm 
damage claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L made a claim following a storm. RSA appointed experts B to inspect and validate the 
claim for damage to a stable. B visited the property and Ms L appointed her own expert loss 
assessor O to deal with the claim on her behalf. B issued a report to RSA saying the 
damage amounts involved were beyond the limits it can deal with. There were ongoing 
discussions between the parties and Ms L told RSA that B had offered a cash settlement of 
£10,000. As the claim hadnt moved on Ms L said she would like to take that amount in 
settlement of her storm damage claim.
RSA said that amount had never been offered. It said that Ms L had withdrawn her claim. It 
also pointed out that Ms L was now referring to other storm damage at her property that pre-
dated her insurance cover with RSA. It said it couldnt deal with claims that were made 
against other insurers. Unhappy with this Ms L brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said based on the claim records B hadnt 
offered to settle the claim for £10,000. RSA was dealing with the claim for damage to a 
stable roof and Ms L was now referring to a storm claim for her main house and garage. 
RSA said this claim was old, separate, and made to a previous insurer. Our investigator said 
RSA did a little investigation with the previous insurer to make sure there was no link 
between the previous storm damage and the current claim.
Ms L remained unhappy with this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that matters have got confusing for Ms L during her claim issues. I think our 
investigator has tried to be clear and cover all the points Ms L has raised. To me the central 
issue is that Ms L would like to accept the £10,000 she says B offered to her during the 
inspection after she made her storm claim.
From my review of the inspection report notes theres no evidence that suggests any 
settlement figures were discussed or offered. When RSA followed up on this point with B it 
said there wasnt a settlement discussion as it was clear any repair would exceed the limits 
B could approve. I think thats a fair point and persuasive evidence.
As Ms L didnt accept this and continued to make the same point our investigator contacted 
O (Ms Ls appointed assessor representative). I think this was very helpful to ensure this 
service got to the heart of the issue. The individual at O who was at the inspection (Ill refer 
to as J) said that no cash settlement offer was made. J said he asked B to confirm the 
financial limits it had to work within, B confirmed it could work on claims up to £10,000. J told 
B this wouldnt be enough to deal with this claim and B confirmed it would refer it back to 
RSA for further action. I can see why this might have caused some confusion for Ms L. But 
as this description of events from her representative agrees with the version passed by B to 
RSA, I think its a fair assessment of events as they occurred. I wont be asking RSA to pay 
this amount as I dont think any offer was made.
Ms L referred to a previous storm claim for damage to her main home and garage (2008) 
that she made against a previous insurer. She said RSA had agreed to deal with the 
previous insurer and the earlier claim. RSA was clear that it wouldnt be taking on any 
responsibility for the earlier claim as it wasnt the insurer at the time. It did check to make 
sure there was no connection between the claims with the previous insurer, but that is all. 
Our investigator confirmed to Ms L that any issues with the earlier storm claim she would 
need to take up directly with the previous insurer. I dont think RSA has to take any further 
action in relation to a claim while it wasnt the insurer of the property.
In October 2019 RSA received an email from O, on behalf of Ms L, confirming that Ms L 
wished to withdraw her stable damage claim. So, RSA didnt have taken further action on the 
claim from that point. As this was at Ms Ls request, I dont think RSA has done anything 
wrong. Ms L will need to discuss this further with RSA if she wants to reopen this claim.
Ms L also made a subject access request to RSA that has been dealt with.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman