DRN-3777208
The complaint
Miss J has complained, in summary, that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, (Shop
Direct), (Shop Direct), lent to her irresponsibly. She said the lending was unaffordable for 
her. 
What happened
Shop Direct opened a credit account for Miss J in December 2017 with a credit limit of £400. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account which Miss J used to pay for 
goods bought from Shop Directs catalogue. Shop Direct then increased Miss Js credit limit 
as follows:-
Date Credit limit
Account opening 9/12/2017 £400
First increase 9/2/2019 £900
Second increase 24/8/2019 £1,200
Third increase 4/4/2020 £1,700
Miss J says that Shop Direct would have seen from her credit record that she had recently 
missed or made late payments. Shop Direct didnt ask her about her expenses in enough 
detail to stop her from falling into further debt, which is causing her extreme depression and 
anxiety. When Shop Direct increased the credit limit, it didnt ask Miss J if her circumstances 
had changed and it ignored the fact that her income had decreased, and she was using a lot 
of credit but only making minimum payments. At the time of the credit limit increases, she 
had over £10,000 worth of debt which was increasing and her payments for essential bills 
such as electric, gas, and rent were all in arrears. She had to take numerous payment 
holidays and miss payments on this agreement as well as on other credit to pay Shop Direct 
back. She became very reliant on credit.
In its final response letter, Shop Direct said that it had conducted appropriate and 
proportionate checks that considered the information provided at application as well as 
external credit data. It was satisfied that the credit provided to Miss J at the time of 
application and during the lifetime of the account was appropriate. It conducted a 
creditworthiness assessment on application to establish Miss Js ability to repay. A search 
was carried out with a credit reference agency (CRA) to gain an overall view of her 
financial situation. Thereafter, every month, Shop Direct received updated credit information 
about Miss J from a CRA, which it used, together with its internal records, to manage       
Miss Js account. 
Shop Direct said that Miss J managed her account well. At the point of each periodic credit 
limit increase, she demonstrated an ability to make regular payments, sometimes in excess 
of the minimum payment and the external data it received also revealed she was maintaining 
payments to other lenders. 
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Miss J disagreed and provided more information about her outstanding credit at the time of 
her application and subsequent credit limit increases.
The adjudicator reviewed the information, but he didnt think it made a difference to Miss Js 
case. He appreciated that her credit file had a number of credit commitments including a 
high balance. But he didnt think it was enough to say that Shop Direct shouldn't have 
increased her credit limit. He thought the management of her account wouldnt have 
indicated she was struggling and from what her credit file showed, he didnt think Shop 
Direct should've acted any differently.
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss J
and to Shop Direct on 29 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
I said that Shop Direct would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we considered when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. So, I didnt consider it necessary to set all of this out in my decision 
and said that information about our approach to these complaints was set out on our 
website. 
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Miss Js lending history and her income and expenditure. 
Account opening
As Id not seen any information about Miss Js income and living costs at account opening in 
Shop Directs business file, Id asked the adjudicator to ask Shop Direct to supply all the 
information provided by Miss J relating to her income and employment. In relation to Miss Js 
disposable income, Id asked the adjudicator to ask Shop Direct whether it estimated her 
disposable income. And if so, what was the estimated disposable income and what steps did 
Shop Direct take to estimate expenditure.
Id noted that Shop Direct had told this Service in response that Miss J was living with her 
parents, she was employed full time and had no dependents. Her gross salary was £15,001 
and the household income was £33,001. It said Miss Js net monthly income was £1,183 and 
it estimated her housing costs as £118 and her living costs as £283. Shop Direct said that 
her credit commitments were £149, and she was left with £633 each month.
Shop Direct had provided us with information about its credit file checks when Miss J applied 
for her account. The credit checks carried out by Shop Direct appeared to provide it with no 
concerns.  
Miss J had provided us with excerpts from her credit report and I could see from this that she 
had one credit card at the time of her application to Shop Direct.Altogether I thought Shop Direct had carried out proportionate checks here. Having looked at 
the outcome of those checks and enquiries I thought Shop Direct had made a fair lending 
decision on account opening and that the credit limit of £400 was likely to be sustainable for 
Miss J. 
Credit limit increases
9 February 2019
Id considered Miss Js repayment history from the account data supplied by Shop Direct. I 
could see that she had made minimum or Take 3 repayments to her account for 11 of the 14 
months before the credit limit increase, and shed made just minimum or Take 3 repayments 
for the five months before the credit limit increase. Notwithstanding this, Shop Direct had 
increased the credit limit to more than double the original credit limit. I also couldnt see that 
Miss Js use of the account (the balance was under £300 for the five months before the 
increase) justified such a large jump in the credit limit.
I thought Shop Direct ought to have been concerned that Miss J was only able to make 
minimum or Take 3 repayments for 11 out of 14 months which might have suggested that 
her finances were under pressure. 
Id reviewed Shop Directs checks. I could see that Miss Js income and living arrangements 
hadnt changed. But I could see from Shop Directs credit checks that Miss Js total credit 
had significantly increased. She had five credit cards with a total balance of £1,270. She had 
nine live credit accounts and three accounts had been opened in the six months prior to the 
credit limit increase. The total loans balance was almost £20,000. The checks showed     
Miss Js monthly repayments as £395. I thought Shop Direct ought to have been concerned 
about Miss Js relatively recent need for credit especially bearing in mind her living 
arrangements.
So, I thought that by February 2019, Shop Direct ought to have carried out proportionate 
checks that included verifying Miss Js monthly income and living costs. 
However, concluding that Shop Direct ought to have done more before lending to Miss J 
didnt automatically mean her complaint should succeed. I also needed to be persuaded that 
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have suggested to Shop Direct that  
Miss J could meet her repayments without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payments she had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. So, Id 
asked the adjudicator to obtain Miss Js bank statements from around the time of the credit 
limit increase. Id looked at Miss Js bank statements to see what better checks would have 
shown the lender. I wasnt suggesting Shop Direct ought to have done this, but these gave 
me some understanding of Miss Js living costs and how she was managing her money.
Miss Js bank statements showed that her monthly net income was around £1,216. But her 
monthly credit commitments of around £650 were significantly higher than shown in Shop 
Directs credit checks. Id also noted that her identifiable living costs were around £280. I 
could see that Miss J had borrowed two short term loans totalling £140 in January 2019 to 
supplement her income and shed also appeared to be receiving money from family. It 
wasnt clear to me whether Miss J still lived with her family. So, Id asked the adjudicator to 
ask Miss J for more information about this. Miss J said that she was still living with her 
parents at the time of the February 2019 credit limit increase. She had no dependents.
Looking at everything in the round, I hadnt seen enough to find that Shop Direct shouldnt 
have increased Miss Js credit limit in February 2019.24 August 2019
The second credit limit increase was around six months after the first increase and was three 
times the original credit limit. Id noted that Miss J had only made the monthly minimum 
payment or the Take 3 payment since the first credit limit increase and her total balance was 
the highest it had been since account opening. And at no time had Miss J been successful in 
repaying all that she owed. I thought that all this should have been of increasing concern to 
Shop Direct. Her account balance was building up and overall, she wasnt making inroads 
into the increasing amount she owed Shop Direct. 
Id reviewed Shop Directs checks. I could see its records said that Miss J was employed full 
time and that Miss Js income and living arrangements hadnt changed and that she had no 
dependents. Shop Direct told us that consumers werent required to update this information 
for each credit limit increase unless they had asked for an increase. 
I could see from Shop Directs credit checks that she still had five credit cards with an 
increased total balance of £1,633. She had ten live credit accounts.
I again thought that Shop Direct ought to have carried out proportionate checks that included 
verifying Miss Js monthly income and living costs. 
Id again looked at Miss Js bank statements from around the time of the second credit limit 
increase to see what better checks would have shown the lender. I could see that Miss J 
was now receiving a reduced income of around £643 together with benefit income. Her total 
monthly income was around £1,020. I could also see from the statements that Miss Js 
income only appeared to exceed her identifiable regular expenditure and credit commitments 
by around £30. More worryingly, I could see that Miss J had borrowed high cost loans 
totalling £400 in July 2019 and totalling £1,800 in August 2019. She was also borrowing from 
family. Her current account had exceeded its overdraft limit at times, and she had payments 
returned. Id asked the adjudicator to ask Miss J why she was needing to borrow credit.  
Miss J had explained that whilst she was still living with her parents, she now had a 
dependent and she needed the credit for bills, food shopping and essentials for her 
dependent. Overall, I thought it was more likely than not that Shop Direct would have 
learned or reasonably ought to have suspected through proportionate checks that Miss J 
was having problems managing her money. It followed that I thought that Miss J had lost out 
because Shop Direct increased her credit limit from August 2019.
4 April 2020
By the time of the third credit limit increase, Miss J had missed a monthly payment in      
November 2019, and she was otherwise continuing to make only the monthly minimum 
payment or a Take 3 payment. Her account balance had substantially increased, and she 
wasnt making inroads into the increasing amount she owed Shop Direct. I thought the 
lender should have had concerns about this.
Shop Directs credit checks showed that Miss J now had six credit cards and her total 
balance had increased to £2,490.
I again thought that Shop Direct ought to have carried out proportionate checks that included 
verifying Miss Js monthly income and living costs. 
Id again looked at Miss Js bank statements from around the time of the third credit limit 
increase to see what better checks would have shown the lender. Miss J told this Service 
that she had moved into her own property in the autumn of 2019. I could see from the bank statements that Miss Js overall financial situation hadnt improved. And she was now paying 
property bills and still borrowing short term credit. It followed that I thought that Miss J had 
lost out because Shop Direct had increased her credit limit from April 2020.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss J or Shop Direct, I intended to say that if 
Shop Direct had made better checks, it was likely to have found that Miss Js circumstances 
at the times of the credit limit increases in August 2019 and April 2020 suggested that Miss J 
wasnt likely to be able to meet her repayments without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without failing to make any other payments she had a contractual or statutory 
duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her 
financial situation. So, I wasnt persuaded that Shop Direct had acted responsibly at these 
times and subject to any further representations by Miss J or Shop Direct, I intended to 
uphold this complaint in part and say that Shop Direct should put things right as follows:
Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do
I didnt think that Shop Direct had acted responsibly when it increased the credit limit on  
Miss Js account beyond £900 from 24 August 2019. In order to put Miss J back into the 
position she would have been in had this not happened means she shouldnt have to pay 
any interest or charges on amounts she borrowed above £900. So, Shop Direct should:
  - Rework Miss Js account to ensure that from 24 August 2019 onwards interest and 
charges are removed on amounts borrowed above £900 and interest is only charged on the 
first £900 outstanding on the account to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided; and
-  Apply Miss Js repayments after this date to this adjusted balance;
 - If the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding balance to 
pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Miss J should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to her along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement. In this case Shop Direct should remove any adverse 
information about the account from Miss Js credit file;
 - If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Shop Direct needs to ensure that Miss J is only liable for this adjusted balance. Shop 
Direct should look to arrange an affordable payment plan with Miss J for the outstanding 
amount. In this case, once Miss J has cleared the balance, any adverse information should 
be removed from the credit file;
 - If the debt has been sold Shop Direct should either repurchase it or liaise with the current 
debt owner to ensure the above steps are taken. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to take off tax from this interest. Shop Direct 
must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Miss J responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it.
Shop Direct responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with my 
recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.Given that Miss J and Shop Direct have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint in part and require Shop Direct to take the steps set out above under 
the heading Putting things right - what Shop Direct needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint I order Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to put things right as Ive set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman