DRN-3817473
The complaint
Mr H and Miss M complain that QIC Europe Limited unfairly rejected their claim under a 
buildings insurance policy.
Both Mr H and Miss M are named policyholders on their QIC policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr H, Ill refer only to Mr H from here onward.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Hs claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr H had home insurance with QIC. In July 2022, he found a leak under the bath which 
damaged the bathroom floor and the ceiling in the ground floor room beneath it. He 
contacted QIC to make a claim under his home insurance.
QIC appointed a surveyor to examine the leak and assess whether the damage was covered 
by Mr Hs insurance. The surveyor inspected the damage in July 2022. He concluded: 
During our survey we noted evidence of long standing damage to chipboard flooring 
in the bathroom that appears to be consistent with a failure of grout and sealant 
around the bath, water staining to the bathroom walls supports this, damage to the 
plasterboard ceiling in the ground floor wc directly below also appears long term and 
is not considered to be part of a one off escape of water.
Based on this report, QIC rejected Mr Hs claim. It said the report showed the damage was 
caused by failed sealant around the bath which had allowed gradual rot to occur over time. 
QIC said this meant the water damage wasnt covered by Mr Hs policy. Mr H was unhappy 
with this so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
surveyors report  supported by photos of the damaged area  was persuasive. He was 
satisfied that QIC could rely on the policy exclusion to reject Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether Mr Hs home insurance policy covers the water damage to his 
home. Ive reviewed his policy. Information about leaks is at Section 1 of the policy booklet 
(Buildings Cover). This sets out what is and isnt covered.
Section 1.4 covers Escape of water from any fixed domestic water installation. The same 
section of the policy booklet sets out exclusions to this cover. Under the heading We dont 
cover, the booklet lists loss or damage caused by sealant or grouting failing to work 
properly as well as loss or damage caused by a gradual water or oil leak.
Mr H doesnt agree with QICs surveyors report. He says, in summary:
Photos taken by the surveyor show the flooring after the floor had given way and the 
bath had moved.
QIC couldnt know the condition of the grouting before the bath moved so cant know 
what caused this. 
The damage was to flooring which had no grouting near it. The floor directly under 
the grouting wasnt damaged.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. However, I think the surveyors report is persuasive 
and his findings are supported by more than 30 photos of the damage, including some taken 
by Mr H. The damage evident in these photos  broken or failed sealant, lack of grouting on 
tiles, staining to walls  indicate long-term damage rather than a one-off event. Mr H hasnt 
provided any expert evidence that contradicts these findings and his comments havent 
persuaded me that the water damage should be covered by his policy.
On balance, Im persuaded by the evidence provided by QICs surveyor. I dont think its 
unreasonable that QIC relied on his report to conclude that the damage occurred gradually 
because of failed sealant  something excluded under Mr Hs policy. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but Im satisfied that QICs decision to decline his 
claim was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman