DRN-3521271
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc incorrectly recorded his mortgage account arrears 
balance.
What happened
Mr P is complaining about a residential mortgage with Santander held on interest only terms. 
He was unhappy with how Santander had administered his account for various reasons. But 
his main concern was that hed been given conflicting information regarding his arrears 
balance. 
Santander told him that at the time of his most recent annual statement in 2019 his arrears 
balance was £395.84. Mr P didnt agree with the amount and complained that hed been 
given different information previously over the phone.
He made several unsuccessful attempts to resolve things directly with Santander which led a 
formal complaint being raised. Santander didnt uphold the complaint and in its final 
response letter reconfirmed the 2019 end of year balance to be £395.84.
Mr P still didnt agree so he referred his complaint to our service. Following our involvement, 
Santander provided a full breakdown of the mortgage account, prepared by its mortgage 
centre. This showed the loan arrears balance to be £342.17 as of December 2019.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint as he agreed that Mr P was 
right all along about the arrears balance being incorrect and awarded £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenient caused.
Although satisfied that the new arrears balance was correct, Mr P didnt feel £100 fairly 
compensated him for the time and effort spent trying to sort matters with Santander and the 
inconsistent information given to him to date.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 and in summary I agreed £100 didnt fairly 
compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset caused. When considering everything and taking 
into account how Mr P had personally been impacted as a result of Santanders errors, in my 
opinion £250 was fair - given Mr Ps specific circumstances.
Mr P and Santander both accepted this outcome and agreed to settle the case informally on 
the basis that Santander would:
Credit the £250 compensation payment to Mr Ps mortgage account;
Send Mr P an up to date statement to show the revised balance following the £250 
credit and the readjustment of £53.67 (when using the correct 2019 end of year 
balance); and
Provide an accompanying letter of apology.
The case was subsequently closed. However, Mr P further contacted our service to say hed 
not received all the information from Santander as agreed. Despite ongoing efforts to resolve 
things directly with Santander since September 2021, Im disappointed Mr Ps complaint still 
hasnt been adequately settled as agreed. 
Both parties have been informed of my intention to issue a formal decision on this case 
including my proposal to increase the compensation award by £150 to reflect the ongoing 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr P. 
Santander acknowledged the final deadline provided but made no further comments. Mr P 
agreed with my proposal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agreed to the information resolution in September 2021. 
Since then Mr P has received an interim statement from Santander dated 21 October 2021. 
Mr P doesnt think that sufficiently shows the readjustment has been applied to his account. I 
agree.
As previously mentioned, as part its investigation into this complaint Santander has provided 
our service (subsequently shared with Mr P) a manually prepared, full breakdown of the 
mortgage account until 2019. This included the readjustment of his arrears balance to show 
the correct arrears balance of £342.17 as of December 2019.
The interim statement provided in October 2021 shows the opening balance in January 2021 
along with the payments made by Mr P from January to October 2021. I can see the £250 
compensation amount was credited to his account on 7 October 2021.
What Santander hasnt provided is a full breakdown of account for 2020. Mr P has requested 
this to show the correct (amended) end of year balance from 2019 has been correctly 
applied to his account and carried over into 2020 and subsequent years.
Given the previous inconsistencies experienced by Mr P, I dont think its unreasonable for 
him to want this information as reassurance that the correct balance from 2019 was carried 
over and what his most current balance is taking into account the transactions from 2019 
onwards. 
Despite Santander saying it would provide this information were yet to receive it. More 
recently on 30 May 2022 it said the account breakdown had been requested from the 
relevant department. Its disappointing that Mr P has had to wait almost nine months for his 
case to be resolved properly as agreed. As such I think its only right hes compensated for 
the ongoing distress and inconvenience caused as result of him still trying to get things 
sorted.
Putting things right
To put things right Santander must honour the resolution agreed in October 2021 as set out 
above. Most importantly it should provide Mr P will a full breakdown of account from 2019 to 
date to show the arrears balance readjustment has been applied and carried forward from 
2019 into the subsequent years.In addition, I also direct Santander to pay Mr P a further £150 compensation to acknowledge 
the ongoing distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of resolution for almost nine 
months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to resolve this 
complaint as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022. 
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman