DRN-2880181
The complaint
Ms W and Mr D complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited sent letters to Mr Ds old address 
after they had told the bank he no longer lived there, and complain about the tone of the 
banks staff on a phone call with Ms W.
What happened
Ms W and Mr D had a joint loan with Shawbrook, which they took out when they were 
married. When they divorced, they agreed between themselves that Ms W would be solely 
responsible for the loan repayments, although Mr D remained a party to the loan. Ms W 
represents Mr D in this complaint.
After Ms W had kept up the loan repayments for a few years, she fell into financial difficulty, 
and was unable to keep up the payments. In order to pay off the loan, she decided to sell her 
house (of which she was the sole owner). She told Shawbrook this was how she intended to 
repay the loan, and asked for some breathing space. Shawbrook agreed to a series of short 
(typically one-month) payment plans, at the end of which her finances were to be renewed. 
Ms W complained that these periods were not longer, since the regular contact felt like 
harassment. In particular, she complained about one phone call in late 2019, in which the 
call handlers tone had been aggressive.
Shawbrook upheld her complaints about both matters, and paid her £50 compensation 
(which it off-set against the loan balance in January 2020). But on the same day that the 
compensation was paid, there was another phone call, involving another call handler, which 
Ms W also found to be unacceptable, and so she complained about that too  first to 
Shawbrook and then to our Service. Our investigator upheld that complaint and 
recommended that Shawbrook pay Ms W another £50, but Shawbrook did not agree. It 
stood by that call.
Meanwhile, since Mr D was still a party to the loan and was still Shawbrooks customer, 
Shawbrook continued to send him correspondence in his name. Since Shawbrook did not 
know his new address, to which he had moved after the divorce, it continued to send letters 
to the former marital home. When Ms W told Shawbrook he no longer lived there, 
Shawbrook traced him to his parents address by searching his credit file, and sent letters 
there instead. These letters were opened by his parents, causing them some distress. This 
also upset Ms W, because she had not wanted her ex-husbands parents to find out about 
her financial problems. When Mr D told Shawbrook his new address by email, Shawbrook 
would not accept that information by email, and it continued to send letters to his parents 
address (although it only sent letters which it was required to send by regulations, and 
suppressed ordinary mail).
Mr D and Ms W complained about that too, but our investigator did not uphold that 
complaint. She said that Shawbrook was entitled to refuse to accept an email as an 
instruction to change an address, and that until a new address was provided in a letter or a 
phone call, Shawbrook had been entitled to send letters to his last known address (not 
counting the address provided in the email). Ms W did not accept that opinion. She said that 
she and Mr D had both told the bank that he no longer lived at his parents address, and so it 
was a breach of data protection law to continue to write to him there.
Ms W and Shawbrook both requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The change of address
Shawbrooks policy is that to accept a request to change the address to which it sends 
correspondence, the request must be made by the customer concerned  so by Mr D 
himself, not by Ms W on his behalf  and not by email. That is because it does not consider 
email to be a secure method of communication, as email accounts can be taken over by 
fraudsters, and emails can be intercepted and edited. I accept that there may also be ways 
in which a letter or a phone call might be compromised too, but I think each bank should be 
allowed a wide margin of discretion to decide for itself how best to protect its customers from 
fraud, and that I should only interfere if such a policy is manifestly unreasonable.
In this instance, while I appreciate that the letters were unwelcome, I think that Shawbrook 
acted reasonably in this regard. In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account the 
fact that sending letters to a customers last known address  where known excludes an 
address which has been provided in a manner which the bank will not accept  is standard 
industry practice. It is not my place to say whether a breach of data protection law has 
occurred, as that is properly a matter for a court or for the Information Commissioners 
Office, but I do not think that every time a bank writes to an address which it knows is no 
longer occupied by its customer will automatically be a breach in every instance. (By way of 
analogy, in litigation one party may serve a notice on another party at his last known address 
even when it is known that he no longer lives there.)
I therefore do not uphold this aspect of this complaint.
The phone calls
I do uphold Ms Ws complaint about the January 2020 phone call. Before I explain why, 
I should add for the sake of completeness that I agree that the £50 already paid by 
Shawbrook is fair compensation for the matters for which it was paid. But the January call 
came after that, and in my view it fell short of the standard of service I would have expected.
I have listened to the call recording, and my overall impression is that the call handler was 
out of her depth. There were times when she did not appear to have understood what Ms W 
had told her, and she often repeated herself as if she either had not taken in Ms Ws 
previous answers, or because she did not know what else to say. I would not always think 
that was worth awarding compensation for, but I think that further compensation is merited in 
this case, because of two additional factors.
Firstly, the call handler kept repeating that Shawbrook was going to bring legal action 
against Ms W, and while there are often cases in which that is a reasonable thing to tell a 
customer, I dont think this was yet one of them, as things stood in January 2020. Lenders 
have a duty to treat customers who are known to be experiencing financial difficulty 
sympathetically and positively, and I dont think that Shawbrook fulfilled that duty on this call. 
Ms W was already in the process of selling her house, and although that took longer than 
expected, the sale was still at an early stage at the time of the call. As she herself put it 
during the call, she already knew she needed to sell the house; she didnt need a judge to tell her that.
Secondly, the call handler suggested that Ms W should contact her mortgage lender (whose 
charge on the property was ahead of Shawbrooks in priority) and ask to reduce her monthly 
payments, so that she would have more money with which to pay Shawbrook. That was 
outrageous.
Shawbrook denies that its call handler actually said that. Its interpretation of the call 
recording is that its call handler merely asked Ms W if she had an arrangement to pay with 
her mortgage provider. Ms W replied that she did not, because the account was not in 
arrears, and then Ms W asked the call handler if she was suggesting that she should reduce 
her mortgage payments in order to increase her payments to Shawbrook. Shawbrook says 
that the call handler denied that she was suggesting anything of the sort. The bank insists 
that its staff member handled that call correctly.
I am unable to accept that interpretation of the conversation. The following text is my 
transcript of the call, starting at precisely 22 minutes in:
MS W: Im in a really difficult financial position at the moment, and until such 
time as I can sell the house Im not in a position to pay any more towards the 
arrears. Im paying as much as I possibly can.
SHAWBROOK: Have you got an arrangement in place with your first charge 
lender, your main mortgage?
MS W: No, Im on an interest only mortgage with them, and its really up to 
date.
SHAWBROOK: Okay. [Pause.] Have you discussed the possibility of an 
alternative arrangement with them at all?
MS W: Yes I have, and they cant give me any further lending.
SHAWBROOK: Right, Im not necessarily talking about further lending, but 
have you discussed the possibility of reduced payments for a period of time 
with them?
MS W: Right, no I havent, because everything was  I mean, the amount 
that Im paying them is affordable.
SHAWBROOK: Right, but its rendering our payments unaffordable.
MS W: [Sigh.] So what are you saying, I should make payments to pay them 
less and pay you more?
SHAWBROOK: Im not necessarily saying that 
MS W [agitated]: Well thats what you are saying I think!
SHAWBROOK: Im saying have you had a conversation with them to see 
whether its a possibility, Im not telling 
MS W: No I havent because Im not in arrears with them, and I dont 
particularly want to be in arrears with them.
SHAWBROOK: Right, okay.MS W: Because that is my mortgage and thats the first thing that I must pay 
every month.
That exchange is quite clear and unequivocal. It is very apparent that the suggestion that 
Ms W should deliberately allow her mortgage to fall into arrears in order to increase her 
payments to Shawbrook was an idea which definitely originated with Shawbrook, and was 
not merely a product of its customers vivid imagination. It should never have been 
proposed; I trust that I do not have to explain why.
It is not within my remit to punish a bank for misconduct; that is the province of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. I can only compensate a complainant for her distress and inconvenience. 
But that phone call was so counter-productive overall that I do not think that £50 adequately 
reflects the impact it undoubtedly had on Ms W, and I think that £100 would be fair instead.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Ms W £100, in addition to the £50 it has paid her already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021. Ms W may respond on behalf of them 
both.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman