DRN-4017818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a travel insurance benefit through their bank account. They were going 
on an extended trip at the end of 2021. 
The trip involved Mr and Mrs C taking a connecting domestic flight to their final destination. 
When they were due to return home on 12 March 2022 the local Civil Aviation Authority took 
a decision to ground all domestic flights. As a result they were unable to travel to the airport 
to get their flight back to the UK. Nor were they able to easily book alternative transport. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were finally able to get a domestic flight on 23 March 2022. They had 
to stay abroad for an extra nine days.
On their return Mr and Mrs C made a claim on the insurance policy. After a number of calls 
to UKI he was told the claim had been rejected. Mr and Mrs C say when they asked why the 
claim had been rejected they were told they would receive written correspondence detailing 
the reason. They asked when they would receive this but the advisor was unable to specify. 
And so Mr and Mrs C asked for a call back from UKI to clarify. 
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt hear anything further for several weeks and so complained to 
UKI. 
UKI partially upheld the complaint. UKI said Mr and Mrs Cs domestic flight was cancelled 
two days before it was scheduled to depart. Under the terms of the policy it can consider 
delay if Mr and Mrs C had arrived at their point of departure, were checked in, and the flight 
was delayed for more than 2 hours. Since the flight was cancelled two days before departure 
the delay benefit didnt apply. 
UKI upheld the part of the complaint regarding the decline letter which it said had been 
uploaded onto its online portal, but accepted Mr and Mrs C werent told this was how the 
letter would be communicated. To make up for the trouble and upset caused UKI paid Mr 
and Mrs C £50. 
Mr and Mrs C were not satisfied with the response from UKI so they referred their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said she thought UKI declined the claim reasonably in line with the policy terms. She 
also thought the compensation paid was fair. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators outcome. And so the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract 
and set out what is and isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy, which sets out a list 
of circumstances covered under the section headed, Missed, Delayed, or Abandoned 
Departure. Delay Benefit. The policy says, we will pay £10 per insured person after the first 
two hours and an additional £10 every following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have 
arrived at your point of departure or connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is 
delayed. You must have already checked in. 
Mr and Mrs Cs domestic flight was cancelled two days before it was due to depart so they 
hadnt arrived at the point of departure or checked in for the flight. This situation isnt covered 
in the above circumstances covered by the policy. So I cant say UKI were wrong to decline 
the claim on that basis.  
Mr and Mrs C say their claim should be considered under the missed departure section of 
the policy which says, we will pay up to £1000 for each insured person for reasonable extra 
accommodation and travel costs if you fail to arrive at your point of departure or connection 
in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train. 
The policy goes on to list applicable reasons for missed departure or connection as follows;
1. Public transport delay: the delay of scheduled public transport in which you are 
travelling to your departure point.
2. Car accident or breakdown: the vehicle in which you are travelling being involved in 
an accident or breaking down.
3. Traffic delay: the vehicle in which you are travelling being delayed by heavy traffic or 
road closures severe enough to be reported through a recognised media channel. 
Ive thought about this carefully. The section of the policy doesnt apply because the 
cancellation of the domestic flight isnt covered by the circumstances listed above. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration at not being covered for the cancelled flight by 
their insurance. When they were aware the domestic flight was being grounded and they had 
to try and find alternative transport  I imagine would have been stressful. I can appreciate 
their disappointment when they learned it wasnt covered by their insurance. However I have 
looked at whether UKI has acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim. Having carefully reviewed the terms and conditions I think it has. 
Overall Im satisfied that UKI didnt decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim unfairly or unreasonably. I 
think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation for the lack of clear communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman