DRN-4303554
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund money he lost to an investment scam.
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr B includes his representative.
What happened
This complaint concerns a series of payments that Mr B attempted in September 2021,
towards what he thought was a genuine investment venture. The instructed payments were
intended to go to currency exchange platforms.
At first, Mr B attempted to make payments to one platform  but these were not allowed by
Monzo, in keeping with its transaction protocols. So, Mr B tried a payment to a different
website (which Ill refer to as M) which was successful. This was for £688.04 on
22 September 2021.
Mr B made the payment because he was interested in investing profitably online. Hed been
contacted by an individual through social media that claimed to have profited from a scheme,
and so Mr B decided to try it himself. In order to begin investing, Mr B was told that he first
needed to send money to be exchanged, which is why he made the payment to M (as this is
understood to have been Ms nature of business). From there, Mr B was directed to send the
money onwards to a separate website.
Mr B later realised that this was all an elaborate scam, and that once the money had been
transferred from M, it was actually sent to scammers  there was in fact no investments
made at all. Rather, his money was stolen.
When he raised this with Monzo, the bank concluded that it was not liable for the loss Mr B
incurred. Unhappy with this, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Having reviewed
what happened, our investigator did not recommend that Monzo return the money to Mr B.
Mr B does not accept this. He maintains that the bank ought to have identified that he was
being scammed and rejected the payment. Because Mr B is not in agreement, the case has
been escalated to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 18 July 2023. I have copied the findings 
section of my decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I am sorry to disappoint Mr B, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator  albeit for different reasons. Based on what Mr B has 
submitted, whats left for me to determine is whether Monzo ought to return the 
£688.04 he remitted to M on 22 September 2021. My proposed decision is, therefore, 
focused on this matter alone.
Im aware that Ive condensed events in less detail than they were presented. I can 
assure the parties that I have nonetheless read everything thats been submitted and 
taken it into consideration when making my decision.
So, if there is a particular piece of evidence or point that I dont refer to, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr B and Monzo do not take this as a 
discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code)
Our investigator considered the expectation for Monzo to apply the provisions of the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code). The CRM code has been in 
place since May 2019 and applies to Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams.
In short, its main aim is to provide greater protection for consumers through payment 
service providers procedures to detect, prevent and respond to APP scams. It was 
pursuant to this that our investigator considered whether Monzo ought to reimburse 
some or all of Mr Bs loss.
However, upon acquiring further evidence from Monzo, its since been confirmed that 
Mr B made the disputed payment using his Monzo debit card. The CRM code does 
not apply to transactions performed using debit, credit or prepaid cards (amongst 
other things).
Meaning that, whether Monzo should refund Mr B would not be dependent on the 
CRM code, but instead rests on whether the bank should reimburse the money 
based on other obligations or good practice. Hence, why Ive considered what Monzo 
should have done, taking into account the relevant rules, codes and best practice 
(aside from the CRM code).
relevant considerations
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the customers account.
Still, there are some situations where we believe that banks ought to have been on 
alert or notice that something wasnt right about the circumstances surrounding a 
transaction. It therefore can be a reasonable expectation for a bank such as Monzo 
to double-check payment instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns as 
to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for a consumer.
With that said, I must bear in mind that there is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate transactions. Indeed, delaying a payment instruction could lead Monzo to 
breach the relevant regulations.Having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be
reasonable to expect Monzos systems to have been triggered by the authorised 
payment in dispute. There is a lack of persuasive evidence that this transaction was 
significantly unusual or uncharacteristic compared with Mr Bs normal account activity 
in recent times.
All things considered, I am not persuaded that it represented a significant deviation 
from Mr Bs typical expenditure, nor what is a sufficiently suspicious account 
movement that leads me to believe that Monzo ought to have taken further measures 
to enquire with Mr B before the funds left the account. When judging this, I have duly 
borne in mind that Mr B did not use his Monzo account that regularly, meaning there 
was somewhat limited data for the bank to work from when denoting what is and isnt 
regular and expected expenditure-wise.
Whats more, at the time of the payment, the payee Mr B paid directly was not 
recognised as being a high risk according to the well formulated watchlists that 
Monzo ought to take notice of. Consequently, I dont think the bank could have 
known that these payments were being sent to a scammer. With this in mind, there 
were not sufficient grounds for the payments to be delayed.
Besides that, Monzos evidence shows that the transaction was verified by Mr B 
using chip and PIN, or by Mr B entering a passcode that was sent to his registered 
device as part of its 3D security system. The bank has explained that it took this 
precautionary measure to ensure that Mr B authorised the payment  and the 
positive response it received confirmed he did.
These procedures meant that, in order for the payment to go ahead, someone would 
have had to have been able to access Mr Bs debit card, know his PIN and be able to 
access (and unlock) his mobile device to enter the relevant passcode. Otherwise, the 
payment would not have been allowed by Monzo. As I see it, Monzos 3D security 
system provided a proportionate response to this particular payment instruction. To 
put it another way, I do not find it reasonable to require Monzo to have taken further 
precaution with this payment.
My intended findings are reinforced by the multiple transactions that Monzo did not 
permit to leave Mr Bs account that were attempted in the days leading up to this 
c.£700 payment. Again, we know that Monzo enacted its 3D security check and it did 
not receive the necessary response from Mr B on those occasions.
In other words, the bank checked for authentication and Mr B did not follow the 
required steps  therein, stopping the payments from proceeding. Whereas, when 
Mr B did follow Monzos security check, Monzo permitted the transaction to be 
fulfilled. Accordingly, when Mr B made the payment in question, the bank saw no 
compelling reason to double-check what it knew to be an authorised payment.
Ive also borne in mind that if banks such as Monzo were to be expected to intervene 
with every payment of a similar size to the one being debated here (which had a 
value of less than £700) it could risk grinding the banking system to a halt.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think Monzo ought to have stepped in 
or taken further action before this payment was completed. Overall, Im not satisfied 
Monzo failed to identify a suspicious transaction, or an untoward recipient, that might 
have indicated fraud or financial abuse was being attempted. To that end, Im not 
minded to conclude that Monzo acted unfairly or unreasonably here.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B acknowledged my provisional findings and had no further submissions to make. Monzo 
did not respond. It follows that there is no new evidence or arguments for me to consider. 
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to make their final representations, the case 
has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr B nor Monzo presented any further evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my intended decision. To that end, the way in which I was minded to 
decide the complaint remains the same.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman