DRN-3502322
The complaint
Mr H complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent him money on a high cost loan 
which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
PML provided Mr H with a loan on 22 May 2018 for £10,000, repayable over 48 months at 
the rate of £410 a month.
Mr H complained that he couldnt afford the loan and entered a debt management plan to try 
and sort out his debts. He eventually paid off the loan, I believe with his fathers help, in 
December 2021.
PML said it carefully assessed the affordability of the loan, reviewing Mr Hs application with 
him, and two months bank statements on his sole account and one months joint account 
statement with his partner. It also verified his income and carried out a credit check. It said 
the credit check didnt evidence any defaulted accounts or County Court Judgements. He 
had provided evidence of having paid off a payday loan. It took into account his partners 
contributions towards household bills and said the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator said that Mr H had a very low or negative disposable income after taking into 
account the loan instalments. He had a high amount of debt and had very recently been 
using payday loans. He also noted that there was evidence that Mr H spent a considerable 
amount on gambling. He said the loan wasnt affordable and that PML should refund the 
loan interest and other charges.
PML didnt agree, pointing out that it had reviewed the payday loans and accepted the 
reason for them which Mr H said was for car expenses. It said the gambling evidence on 
Mr Hs bank statements was questioned with him, and he provided a plausible reason and 
explained that he would not be gambling as this was only during the football season. It also 
said Mr Hs income was higher than that set out in the affordability assessment. It further 
said that the loan was for part consolidation of loans, which were paid before releasing the 
balance to Mr H.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan amount was for a considerable sum, payable over a long period. This represented 
a substantial monthly commitment for Mr H. So PML should have carried out a thorough 
assessment of Mr Hs financial circumstances.
First of all, from reviewing Mr Hs credit report, Ive noted that he had five credit cards, four of 
which were near and one which was over the limit. The total balances on the cards 
amounted to around £10,900. None of the cards were to be paid off using this loan.
I think it fair to review this case from the point of view of PMLs income and expenditure 
assessment. This concluded that Mr H had a negative disposable income of -£50. However 
it calculated alternatively that, assuming Mr Hs partner paid half the bills, the disposable 
income would be £202. The money saved from consolidating the loans was accounted for. 
And whilst I think its fair to allow for Mr Hs partner to pay towards the bills, apart from a 
bank statement PML didnt obtain evidence of her personal circumstances and the loan was in Mr Hs sole name, so he was solely responsible for payment. I cant take account of a 
possible higher income for Mr H as the income figure PML used was as set out in its 
assessment.
With the new loan payment of £411, I cant see that Mr H had sufficient disposable income to 
pay it. Nevertheless Ive considered the bank statements PML saw and some further 
statements Mr G sent in. And whilst the statements dont show Mr H as being overdrawn by 
much, they did show substantial sums being paid out for gambling, in the two months PML 
saw, respectively £401 and £320. These figures were noted and highlighted by PML. Mr Hs 
other statements show similar amounts being spent on gambling. 
Given that its hard to understand PMLs acceptance of Mr Hs statement that he would not 
be gambling as this was only during the football season. If the football season ended in mid-
May, Ive noted that he spent a similar amount on gambling in his May  June 2018 
statement. However accepting that that was after the loan, if PML accepted his reason for 
gambling, the football season generally lasts nine months, so I dont think PML should have 
accepted that Mr H would simply stop. If it was prepared to lend him the money knowing his 
expenditure it should have taken into account his average spending on gambling.
The other thing the statements show is that even in the two months before the application, 
Mr H had received funds from payday loans, including £1,200 on 4 May 2018. Whilst Mr H 
told PML this was for car expenses I cant see any evidence of this from the bank statements 
and PML didnt ask him for any such evidence.
To summarise Mr H was spending considerable sums on payday loans, on credit cards and 
on gambling. I dont think even taking into account his partners contributions that he was in 
a position to afford the new loan instalments which added to his credit commitments even 
whilst paying some off. So I dont think that PML made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr H has had the capital sum for the loan and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
PML to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr H as payments towards the capital amount of £10,000.
If Mr H has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Progressive Money Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman