DRN-4053981
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked his accounts for too long and 
then closed them with immediate effect. He says he is entitled to know Nationwides reasons 
for closing his accounts according to the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 (PARs 2015). 
And he wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience he experienced.
What happened
Mr B held various accounts with Nationwide, including a basic current account. In September 
2021 Nationwide undertook a review and blocked Mr Bs access to his accounts. Mr B 
contacted Nationwide regularly while his accounts were blocked and asked when his access 
would be reinstated. But Nationwide said it wasnt able to give a timeframe and in late 
November 2021 it decided to close all of his accounts with immediate notice.  
Mr B raised a complaint. Nationwide offered £50 for not concluding its review when it should 
have, but it refused to provide its reason(s) for closing his accounts. Dissatisfied with 
Nationwides response, Mr B asked our service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator concluded:
Nationwide could block Mr Bs accounts while it carried out a review.
Nationwide offered £50 for not concluding its review as quickly as it should have. 
This was a fair offer in the circumstances
Nationwide could close Mr Bs accounts, but it may not have applied the correct 
terms and conditions when closing his basic account. However, Mr B hadnt provided 
information on what other accounts he had open before and after he opened the 
basic account, so it wasnt possible to make a certain finding on this point.
Mr B says he is entitled to know why his basic account was closed under the PARs. 
But Nationwide acted correctly by not providing reasons and this was in line with its 
terms and conditions.
A basic account is intended for persons who dont normally qualify for a normal 
current account, so they have access to a banking facility. But in Mr Bs 
circumstances its evident he had access to current accounts elsewhere.
I note Mr B wanted his final statements for his Nationwide accounts which our investigator 
provided.
Mr B disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. In summary he said hed 
previously told our service that he had other UK current accounts prior to opening the basic 
account. He didnt believe having other UK current accounts disqualified him from a basic 
account with Nationwide and neither did the PARs disqualify him. He wanted to know the 
reason for his basic account being closed in line with provisions in the PARs. He asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided Nationwide do not need to do anything more than pay Mr B the £50 it originally 
offered, unless the offer has already been paid to Mr B. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened.
To comply with its responsibilities Nationwide will monitor accounts and carry out specific or 
occasional checks. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account to 
conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account, which is what Nationwide 
did here.
Nationwide isnt obliged to reveal the reason(s) for reviewing Mr Bs accounts. But I have 
considered the basis of its review, which I find was legitimate and in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im further satisfied its basis for withholding funds in the accounts was 
understandable until it completed its review.
Nationwide has the commercial discretion to close accounts, but here Mr B held a basic 
account, which is subject to the PARs 2015. But the PARs form only part of a much broader 
regulatory landscape which firms like Nationwide need to consider when making decisions in 
relation to accounts, so I have not considered them in isolation.
Mr B said he had other UK current accounts open prior to opening the basic account with 
Nationwide, which his account activity bears out. He failed to confirm whether he opened 
other UK current accounts after his basic account opened. He also said Nationwide ought to 
have let him know if he was eligible for other accounts at the time of application. 
But on reviewing the application record Nationwide holds for Mr Bs basic account it doesnt 
look like he revealed he had other UK current accounts at that time. Instead, Nationwides 
record indicates Mr B said this was to be his only UK current account at that time of 
application, which appears to have been inaccurate. So, I dont find it was incumbent on 
Nationwide to check whether Mr B would qualify for other accounts it offers.
On balance when considering Nationwides wider legal and regulatory responsibilities and all 
the information available to me, I find Nationwide had a legitimate basis to close Mr Bs 
account immediately and to not tell him why. So, I am not going to direct Nationwide to 
reveal its reason(s) now by virtue of Mr B bringing this complaint.  
Nationwide must also carry out and conclude a review reasonably and without undue delay. 
Nationwide admits it should have completed its review earlier than it did. I agree with its 
conclusion and find £50 is sufficient compensation for Mr B not having use of his funds 
earlier, and for the inconvenience and frustration he experienced. I say this because the 
transactional activity on his accounts before they were blocked indicates he had use of at 
least another UK current account, and that he held funds elsewhere  I see the balance on 
his basic account was minimal at the time it was blocked. 
I understand Mr Bs understandable frustration at not being able to use his Nationwide 
accounts as he wished and needing to rearrange payments at short notice, but I dont find 
awarding further compensation would be proportionate in the circumstances of his 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Subject to Mr B accepting my final decision, I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay him the £50 compensation they offered, unless this offer has already been paid.
My final decision
I have decided to award Mr B compensation according to my direction above. Nationwide 
Building Society should pay him £50 subject to him accepting my final decision unless this 
has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman