DRN-3774136
The complaint
Mr L complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) wont refund 
transactions he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. But the key points are:
A card linked to Mr Ls account was added to an online entertainment platform, which 
Ill call G, on Mrs Ls phone.
Mr and Mrs Ls son was using Mrs Ls phone to play an online game using G.
Mr L says his son had asked to buy an upgrade for the game and Mrs L had input a 
password to approve the payment for the upgrade, this payment was for £4.49.
Mr L says they then received a notification to say a payment of £44.99 had been 
made and so checked his account, where he discovered that over £400 of payments 
had been made
Mr L reported these as fraud as he said neither he nor Mrs L had approved the 
payments with a password, and that they had not told their son the password to the 
account with G
Tesco declined to refund the payments as it said they were not in-line with any fraud 
trends and the credit card had been added to G, which Mr and Mrs Ls son had 
access to as he had possession of Mrs Ls phone during the period in question.

Our Investigator upheld the complaint, they werent persuaded Mr L authorised the 
transactions or otherwise consented to them. Tesco disagreed with the Investigators 
findings, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by investigator for the following 
reasons. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), except where a payer has acted 
fraudulently, the payer isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised 
payment transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract. 
There isnt any provision within the PSRs which holds Mr L liable for a transaction made via 
a distance contract if it was unauthorised, even if he acted with gross negligence or intent. 
And the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account also state that any unauthorised payments 
made via a distance contract will be refunded.
All of the transactions in dispute here were online payments. So under the PSRs, Tesco can 
only hold Mr L liable for the payments if he either authorised the transactions or he acted 
fraudulently. There is no persuasive evidence, nor has Tesco sought to argue, that he acted 
fraudulently. 
Therefore my consideration is solely in relation to whether Mr L authorised the transactions. 
The payments were made using legitimate card details which were used with an online 
account with G. So the question here is whether Mr L allowed the card details to be used in 
this way to make these transactions and therefore consented to the transactions being 
made. 
Ive listened to the conversation Mr and Mrs L had with Tesco when the disputed payments 
came to light, they were clear from the beginning that they had set up the account with G so 
that a password had to be entered to approve each transaction. During this call they didnt 
indicate that they had ever willingly given the password to their son to use. And Mr and 
Mrs L have then been consistent in their description of what happened throughout this 
complaint. Tescos notes say that Mr L said his son had pressed some buttons to make the 
payments, but that is not what Mr L said, that is something the staff member he spoke to 
suggested but that Mr L disagreed with.
I appreciate that Tesco feels Mr and Mrs Ls testimony is not enough to show that the 
payments were not consented to. But we are an informal dispute resolution service, so weve 
not forensically investigated the account with G and how it worked. Mr and Mrs L have told 
us how the account was set up and how they approved payments their son asked them to 
make, and Tesco hasnt provided evidence to show the disputed payments were consented 
to. I cant know exactly what happened here, but I have not seen enough evidence to 
convince me that Mr or Mrs L allowed their son to make these payments.
On this basis I consider it more likely than not that Mr L did not consent to these payments 
being made. It follows that these payments should therefore be treated as unauthorised and, 
as per the PSRs and the terms of Mr Ls account Tesco is therefore not able to hold him 
liable for them and they should be refunded to him.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Tesco should:
- Refund the disputed payments made to G totalling £416.29
- Pay 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the payments were made until the 
date of settlement)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman