DRN-3762810
The complaint
Mr E complains that QIC Europe Ltd didnt provide a suitable courtesy vehicle under his 
motor insurance policy while his car was in for repair.
Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E holds a motor insurance policy with QIC. When his vehicle was involved in an accident, 
he made a claim to QIC who authorised the repairs to Mr Es car.
But Mr E complains that he wasnt provided a courtesy while his vehicle was being repaired. 
Mr E is a driving instructor and says without the car he lost out on valuable income which he 
thinks QIC should compensate him for.
QIC said Mr Es policy only provided cover for a small car  not a dual controlled one - which 
can only be used for social domestic and pleasure purposes. It said it had no courtesy cars 
available to give Mr E in any event as they were all being used.
Mr E wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He said he wasnt told 
he wouldnt get a dual controlled courtesy car when he purchased the policy and thinks QIC 
should have done more to assist him.
One of our investigators didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought QIC acted 
in line with Mr Es policy.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr E. Ill 
explain my reasoning below.
In this complaint Im considering the actions of QIC as the insurer. Im not 
considering the actions of the business that sold Mr E his policy. QIC didnt sell this 
policy to Mr E, so its not reasonable to hold it accountable for anything that was said, 
or wasnt said, during that sales process.
Mr Es policy says QIC will Supply a courtesy car whilst your car is being repaired 
(subject to availability). The policy is silent on what type of courtesy car will be 
provided, but QIC says it would be a Class A (small) car.
As the policy is silent on what type of courtesy car will be provided, I think it fair to 
determine what a reasonable person would think is meant by the term courtesy car. 
Im mindful the policy is essentially a private policy which allows business use. Its not 
a policy specifically designed to insure driving instructors and dual controlled cars. It 
doesnt say the courtesy car will be like for like nor does it say replacement or 
imply provision of a car to allow Mr E to carry on providing driving lessons. I think its 
reasonable to assume the courtesy car wouldnt be the same type of car as the one 
on cover. So, in this case, the courtesy car wouldnt likely be a dual controlled one 
like the one Mr E needed. It would most likely be as QIC suggested, a small car to 
get Mr E from A to B.
Whats more, the policy says a courtesy car will be provided subject to availability. Its 
not guaranteed  so I dont think QIC would need to contribute anything toward any 
hire car if no courtesy cars were available from its own repairer network. 
I understand Mr E says he wasnt really given a proper choice to use QICs repairer 
as they were too far away. But even if he had, I dont think QIC would have been able 
to provide him with a dual controlled car as its confirmed none of its repairs have one 
available as a courtesy car.
It is the fact that Mr E was without a dual controlled car, not that he was without a car 
that meant he missed out on work. As the policy doesnt provide a dual controlled car 
while Mr Es is being repaired, I dont hold QIC responsible for these losses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman