DRN-3445668
The complaint
Mr T is complaining about a delay in transferring his pension benefits from Bank of Scotland 
Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) to a new provider. He is also complaining that Halifax 
incorrectly informed him that his benefits would remain invested in his existing funds until the 
day of transfer and had he known this was wrong, he would not have proceeded with the 
transfer.
Mr T believes he has suffered a material financial loss as a result of Halifaxs errors and 
would like to be compensated for this. He believes the loss he has incurred is c £19,000. 
What happened
On 19 March 2021, Mr T contacted Halifax to request transfer forms to begin the process of 
transferring his benefits to a new provider (Firm A). He was informed during the call that 
there were likely to be significant delays in these forms being sent to him. He complained to 
Halifax about these delays on 30 March 2021.
Halifax received a transfer request from Firm A via Origo on 1 April 2021 and calculated the 
transfer value of Mr Ts benefits using the closing fund prices on that date. System delays at 
Halifax meant that the transfer of benefits did not take place until 30 April 2021.
In the meantime, Mr T called Halifax on 19 April to check on the progress of the transfer. 
During this call he was not only incorrectly informed that his benefits remained invested in 
his chosen funds with Halifax, but also that the benefits would remain invested until the 
transfer was complete.
On 27 April Halifax contacted Firm A to advise it that an error by Halifax had caused the 
transfer to be delayed. The transfer was completed on 30 April with the benefits transferred 
to Firm A by Halifax, using the value calculated on 1 April 2021.
In recognition of the delay, Halifax credited Mr T with £470.88 in respect of lost interest for 
the period between 1 and 30 April 2021 and wrote to him to confirm this.
Mr T replied to this letter asking for clarification of the transfer value. He also provided 
calculations which he felt showed that the value of the funds he had been invested in with 
Halifax had risen by 3.51% more than the growth in his transfer value during the period 
between 1 and 30 April, representing a loss to him of c£19,000. He informed Halifax that he 
had been told on 19 April that the funds would remain invested until the transfer had taken 
place.
Halifax replied on 13 May to advise that because of system processing errors the transfer 
had been delayed until 30 April, to confirm that the transfer value was based upon prices on 
1 April and that interest had been added because of the delay.
Mr T replied to complain on 29 May, restating that he had been informed on 19 April that his 
benefits remained invested and would continue to be invested until the date the transfer was 
completed, and he expected to be compensated such that the transfer value of the funds on 
30 April should be used. He also stated that had he known that the value at 1 April would be 
used, he would not have continued with the transfer at that time.
Mr T called Halifax in July and August to follow up his complaint, before writing on 5 August 
to also request an update on his complaint. Mr T also complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service once the 8 week time limit for him to receive a final response to his 
complaint had passed.
Halifax wrote to Mr T to apologise for the delay in responding to his complaint on 3 
November 2021 and outlining its understanding of the causes of his complaint. Mr T replied 
to clarify his complaint and confirm that he wanted his transfer value to be based on unit 
prices on 30 April, rather than 1 April.
Halifax sent a final response to Mr T on 12 November. In this, it accepted responsibility for 
the delay to the pension transfer but stated that it was correct to use 1 April 2021 as the date 
to calculate the transfer value, rather than 30 April. To try to ensure that Mr T was not 
financially disadvantaged by the delay, it offered to conduct an assessment of Mr Ts loss 
and transfer to Firm A a sum equal to any loss as an ad hoc pension payment.
Halifax also offered to send a cheque to Mr T for £300 in respect of his distress and 
inconvenience. An additional £200 was subsequently added to this amount to reflect the 
incorrect information that Mr T was given in that his benefits would have remained invested 
until the date the transfer took place, making a total of £500.
Mr T was unhappy with this proposal so asked that the case continue to be investigated by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and decided that although Halifax had indeed 
been the cause of the delay to Mr Ts pension transfer, it had accepted responsibility and 
proposed redress along the same lines as this service would expect to see.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator, so this case has been passed to me to review the 
evidence again and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence in this case, I uphold this complaint, but agree with the 
investigator that the redress proposed by Halifax is appropriate in the circumstances.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr T, so Ill explain my reasons.
Essentially, at the heart of this complaint is the fact that Halifax has caused a delay to Mr Ts 
pension transfer and that any redress should be aimed to put him back into the position he 
would have been in had the delay not occurred. 
Looking at each element of Mr Ts complaint in turn.
Firstly, I find that it is standard industry practice for transfer values to be calculated as at the 
date the transfer request is received. So in taking the transfer value as on 1 April 2021, when 
it received the instruction, Halifax has done nothing wrong here. It is also standard industry practice for fund transfers from one provider to another to not 
take place instantaneously, but to be completed within a few working days. Halifax has 
provided evidence that its standard practice is to complete the transfer within 10 working 
days, so in this case by 13 April 2013. I dont think this would have been unreasonable  had 
it happened. However, the transfer was instead delayed until 30 April for internal reasons 
that Halifax has accepted responsibility for, so it clearly has made a mistake in this regard. I 
find that the period of the delay experienced by Mr T is therefore 14 to 30 April 2021.
Halifax also made another error during this time, incorrectly telling Mr T that the value of his 
pension benefits would remain invested in their existing funds until the transfer was 
complete. Mr T maintains that if he had known this information was incorrect, he would not 
have proceeded with the transfer. However, if Mr T had been told what he should have been 
told, which is that his funds were disinvested at their value on 1 April, in line with his 
instructions and standard industry practice, then I consider it reasonable to assume Mr T 
would have accepted that stopping the transfer at that point would not have benefited him. 
Turning now to the issue of what redress Halifax should pay to Mr T for the delay he 
suffered, I think it is worth restating that the aim of any such redress is to put Mr T back into 
the position he would have been in if the delay had not happened.
Given this I have to make a finding on what the likely loss Mr T suffered as a result of the 
period of the delay would have been. Looking first at what Halifax has proposed as an 
appropriate mechanism to compensate Mr T, it has taken a position that is largely in line with 
the approach this service would take given the circumstances of the case. 
Halifax offered Mr T payment of interest at Bank of England base rate +1% to compensate 
for the delay to Mr T had in accessing his benefits once he had requested the transfer and a 
£500 payment to compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience he suffered due to 
Halifaxs mistakes. These are in line with what I would expect to see given the particular 
circumstances of this case.
Halifax has also offered to assess whether Mr T has suffered a loss due to missed 
investment opportunity. To do this Halifax asks Mr T to:
please arrange for [Firm A] to provide pertinent details to us on their headed paper. Aside 
from the applicable date, the information required will need to include the amounts invested, 
into what funds and the share prices that you received. In addition to this. I will also need the 
hypothetical share price(s) for the same funds that you could have been entitled to from 1 
April 2021 when the transfer should have been received by [Firm A]
In his own words, Mr T considers himself to be an active investor, regularly switching funds. 
In this instance, when the funds were received by Firm A, he did not reinvest them, instead 
keeping the assets in cash. Consequently, there is no reliable indication of how he would 
have invested those funds if he had received them with no delay. Given this, I find that 
Halifaxs payment of interest to compensate Mr T for the delay to his transfer to be fair and 
reasonable.
Halifax has proposed calculating redress for the period from 1 to 30 April 2021, ignoring that 
the target completion date was 13 April 2021 as outlined earlier. I have checked this with 
Halifax and it has confirmed that it intends to consider the longer period. Although this 
approach compensates Mr T for a longer period than appears strictly necessary, it would 
seem unreasonable at this point for this offer to be withdrawn, so I find that Halifax should 
indeed honour it.Essentially, I have to decide whether Halifaxs proposed assessment of Mr Ts potential 
financial loss is fair and reasonable taking all the circumstances into account. 
In the absence of any reliable indication of what Mr T would have done - and the real 
possibility that he would have remained in cash if the transfer had completed without delay  
I find that Halifaxs approach is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As such, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything else to resolve the complaint beyond the 
redress it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint that Halifax did indeed delay the 
transfer of his pension.
However, I shall not be asking Bank of Scotland Trading as Halifax to do anything beyond 
what it has already offered to do for Mr T to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman