DRN-2203533
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given the wrong information about his ex-partners access to 
his e-Savings account when he went into a branch of Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) to open another account. He relied upon this which caused him financial 
detriment as his ex-partner was able to transfer money out of the e-Savings account due to it 
still being a joint account.
What happened
Mr W says that he went into a Nationwide branch to open an ISA on 16 January 2019. He 
says he later decided to open a FlexDirect account and went into the branch on 29 January 
2019. Mr W says that whilst opening his account, he had a conversation about his e-Savings 
account, which he understood at the time to be linked to the FlexDirect account. He says 
that  due to having joint accounts with Nationwide previously with his ex-partner  he 
expressed his concern as to whether it was possible that his ex-partner could take money 
out of his accounts. Mr W says that he was told by the advisor that she would not be able to 
and that only he had access to his accounts.
Mr W says that he began to use the e-Savings account and put lump sums in to build his 
savings. He says that he noticed when looking at the Nationwide app that the statement 
revealed a minus figure and called the fraud helpline to clarify if he was reading it correctly. 
Mr W says that it was established that the money had been taken out of the e-Savings 
account in October 2019 and that the account was linked to his ex-partner.
Nationwide says that when its representative spoke to Mr W whilst opening his ISA in 
January 2019, she says that she informed him that the ISA and FlexDirect accounts were 
only accessible to him however she does not recall having a conversation about the e-
Savings account. Nationwide says that if this account had been discussed, Mr W would have 
been informed that it was a joint account which the other account holder would have access 
to.
Nationwide says that when an account is in joint names and set to either signature required 
this means both account holders have equal rights to the account. It says that as Mr Ws e-
Savings account is set to this, the joint account holder has the same access as him. 
Nationwide says that if there was a breakdown in relationship and it was informed about this, 
it would log a dispute which would ensure no parties could withdraw funds. It says that it was 
not informed of this. It provided information showing that a joint FlexDirect account with Mr 
Ws ex-partner had been closed in July 2014.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and found that he couldnt say what was discussed 
in branch in January 2019 but that it was more likely that the e-Savings account wasnt 
discussed, as it would have been an easy for the advisor to confirm that it was a joint 
account so both parties would have had access. The investigator also found that Mr W ought 
reasonably to have been aware before October 2019 that the e-Savings was a joint account 
and that his ex-partner had access to it. The onus would have been on Mr W to close the 
account and the investigator was unable to say that Nationwide gave him incorrect 
information that led to  his money being taken out of the account by his ex-partner or that it 
should have done more to protect the funds Mr W put in the account.
Mr W disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He maintains that 
there was a conversation about the e-Savings account. He says that he had a conversation 
with Nationwide in June 2020 during which it admitted that the e-Savings account was not a 
joint account and that his ex-partner had no attachment to the account, which he says is 
accurate. Mr W says that he believed the joint account to be closed many years ago and that 
Nationwide was aware of his relationship status at that time. Mr W says that the joint e-
Savings account shouldnt have been reopened and that it this led him to believe it was in 
his name alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below. Ill firstly consider the status of the e-
Savings account and then go on to address whether Nationwide gave Mr W incorrect 
information about this.
What was the status of the e-Savings account?
Mr W says that the joint e-Savings account should not have been reopened once hed 
opened his FlexDirect account. But this wasnt what happened. I can see that the joint 
FlexDirect account was closed in July 2014 but this would not automatically mean that all 
other joint accounts were closed. Nationwides terms and conditions make it clear that 
requests to close e-Savings can only be made through the internet banking site. However, it 
is clear from Nationwides records that the e-Savings account wasnt closed until June 2020. 
So Im satisfied that it was not the case that the account was closed and reopened when Mr 
W opened his FlexDirect account but that it had remained open as a joint account 
throughout the intervening period.
Whilst I understand that Mr W is saying he didnt realise this, the onus was on Mr W to close 
the account or arrange for his ex-partner to be removed as an account holder if he didnt 
want her to have access to the account. Nationwides terms and conditions set out that 
where an e-Savings account is in joint names the authority of both of you is deemed to have 
been given in respect of all transactions. This means that both account holders would have 
equal rights to the account and that Mr Ws ex-partner was entitled to withdraw money from 
it. So I dont think that Nationwide has done anything wrong in allowing Mr Ws ex-partner to 
withdraw the money from the account. 
Mr W has said that he contacted Nationwide twice in June 2020 to ask about his account 
holdings and that he was told that the e-Savings account was solely in his name and not 
connected to his ex-partner. He relies on this to show that his ex-partner shouldnt have 
been able to access the money in the account in October 2019. Ive listened to the 
recordings of both of these calls, which have been provided by Nationwide. Mr W is correct 
in saying that he was told on each call that he had an e-Savings account which was opened 
on 7 August 2006 and remained open and that this account was solely in his name without a 
joint account holder. 
Nationwide has provided screenshots from its internal systems showing that Mr Ws ex-
partner was removed as a party to the account in February 2020. So, at the time Mr W 
spoke with Nationwide in June 2020, the advisors provided Mr W with the correct information 
as the e-Savings account was no longer a joint account at that point. However, it was a joint account at the relevant time in October 2019. So what Mr W was told during the calls in June 
2020 does not affect my findings above.
Did Nationwide give Mr W incorrect information about the account?
Ive considered what happened in branch in January 2019. There are a number of 
differences between the parties, and this is not surprising given that they both gave their first 
recollections about this conversation at least nine months afterwards. For example, Mr W 
has indicated that he went into branch to open the FlexDirect account on 29 January, 
whereas Nationwides records show that the account was opened with an online application 
on 26 January. However, the contact log does show that Mr W went into branch on 29 
January to credit his account with £2500 cash. Likewise, Nationwide has said its 
representative who spoke with Mr W on 16 January 2019 when he opened his ISA informed 
him that the ISA and FlexDirect accounts were only accessible to him, but didnt discuss the 
e-Savings account. But this cant have been the case as Mr W didnt have a FlexDirect at 
this point, it having only been opened on 26 January.  
I make no criticism of either party for these discrepancies, as they were being asked to recall 
the contents of a conversation and events which had taken place many months earlier. I 
merely highlight them to demonstrate that it is difficult to place much weight on these 
recollections. Whilst I accept that mistakes can be made, I think that as the e-Savings 
account was a joint account, it would be unlikely that a branch advisor would have told Mr W 
that it was only accessible to him, particularly if  as Mr W suggests  they were specifically 
asked questions about his ex-partner being able to access his account. So, without any 
contemporaneous record of what was discussed, there isnt enough evidence for me to 
conclude that Nationwide gave Mr W the wrong information during this conversation. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but I can't fairly say that 
Nationwide has done anything wrong in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Nationwide Building Society to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman