DRN-2425333
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly cancelled 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S insured his car through RSA. He made a claim in May 2020 due to the theft of his car. 
Mr S initially reported that he discovered the car was stolen when it wasnt on his driveway. 
But on the same call he advised RSA that wasnt correct and explained the car had been 
stolen when he allowed two men to test drive it without him being in the car.
RSA declined Mr S claim on the basis he hadnt taken reasonable care to prevent loss. It 
also decided to cancel Mr S policy and return his premiums, due to the incorrect information 
he initially provided about the circumstances of the loss.
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Mr S had knowingly given false information initially, so she felt it was fair and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy for RSA to cancel the policy. She also agreed that 
RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable as Mr S hadnt taken 
reasonable steps to protect his car.
Mr S has accepted that the decision to decline his claim is reasonable. But he feels its unfair 
that his policy was cancelled. He disputes some of the statements RSA says he made and 
believes they are intentionally withholding call recordings which would support his version of 
events. He says he now has to declare that his policy was cancelled to future insurers, which 
has significantly increased the cost of his insurance.  
Because no agreement has been able to be reached, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence and arguments relating to RSAs decision to decline Mr S 
claim, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. And I also note that Mr S has 
since accepted this, so I wont go into any more detail about this point in this decision. 
Instead this decision will focus on whether RSAs decision to cancel Mr S policy was in line 
with the terms and conditions of his policy and whether it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S car was stolen on 1 May 2020 and the call where he explained the circumstances of 
the loss took place on 4 May 2020. RSAs call handler says Mr S initially told him the car 
was stolen from the driveway, that there were no signs of forced entry (such as broken glass 
on the driveway) and that Mr S retained both sets of keys. He says it was only after he 
explained that the claim would need to be referred to the validation team that Mr S changed 
his version of events. 
Mr S admits that he initially gave incorrect information about the circumstances of the loss. 
But he disputes that he said he had both sets of keys or that he only gave the correct 
information after the call handler mentioned validation. Mr S has explained that he was tired 
and stressed due to the impact of the theft, which is why he says he initially gave incorrect 
information. But what he feels is key is that he subsequently gave the correct information on 
the same call.
As what was said during the call is material to the outcome here, I would ordinarily listen to 
the recording of the call to establish what was said. But RSA has explained that because the 
call handler was working at home due to the COVID19 pandemic, the call wasnt recorded. I 
understand Mr S is sceptical of this explanation, but Ive seen internal emails and system 
notes from RSA which support that this is the case.
As the call recording isnt available, and the remaining evidence is contradictory, Ill need to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider is more likely 
than not, based on the evidence which is available.
RSA has provided system notes and emails from the day of the call. These suggest that 
Mr S admitted knowingly giving incorrect information as opposed to making a mistake in his 
recollection. And an email, sent by the call handler to the underwriting team on the same 
day, explained the call handlers recollection of the call in detail. This stated that it was only 
after the call handler told Mr S the claim needed to be validated that Mr S gave a different 
version of events. 
As these notes were taken at the time, or shortly after the call took place, I find them to be a 
more persuasive record of the content of the calls than Mr S recollections from several days 
later. I also note that Mr S has, himself, stated that his frame of mind at the time of the call 
was detrimental to his memory. So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to place a greater weight on Mr S admittedly hindered recollections than I 
should on RSAs records from the day of the call. 
Taking into account the available evidence, on balance, I find RSAs version of events to be 
more likely than Mr S. This means Im persuaded that Mr S, most likely, knowingly gave 
incorrect information to support his claim, before changing his version of events.
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy set out the remedies available to RSA where it is 
provided with false information in support of a claim:
 C. Fraudulent or exaggerated claims
If you, or someone on your behalf, knowingly:
 makes a false claim
 exaggerates the amount of a claim
 provides us with false or misleading declarations or statements to support a claim, 
or
 provides us with any other false or invalid documents or relies on any fraudulent 
devices to support a claim.We will decide whether to decline cover under this policy for the relevant claim.
We will then either:
 cancel this policy with immediate effect or
 serve you with seven days notice of cancellation on this Policy.
So, Im persuaded that Mr S, most likely, knowingly provided false information in support of 
his claim. And based on the above terms, this means RSA are entitled to cancel his policy.
RSAs internal underwriting department considered the particular circumstances of Mr S 
claim and decided that they no longer wanted to insure Mr S. So, RSA cancelled his policy 
from the date he provided false information and returned Mr S premiums.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, I think RSAs decision to cancel Mr S 
policy was both in line with the terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the all 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman