DRN-3960970
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank dealt 
with a payment he made using a credit card. Mr C also complains that Tesco Bank 
discriminated against him and failed to make reasonable adjustments. 
What happened
Last year, Mr C made a payment to a retailer using one of two credit cards he holds with 
Tesco Bank. But around a month later, Mr C contacted Tesco Bank and explained hed used 
the wrong credit card to make the purchase and asked the agent to move the payment to his 
other credit card, the one he intended to use. 
Tesco Banks agent advised Mr C it wasnt possible to switch the payment to the credit card 
he intended to use. The agent said Mr C could ask the retailer to issue a refund or complete 
a balance transfer with another business instead. Mr C asked to speak with management 
and also requested Tesco Banks CEOs contact details. The agent advised they couldnt 
provide the CEOs contact details and said they could arrange for a complaint to be raised. 
Mr C spoke with a number of individuals at Tesco Bank and was ultimately passed to a 
manager. A complaint was raised. As well as complaining about Tesco Banks refusal to 
move the payment from one card to the other, Mr C also said he it had lied to him, that hed 
experienced long wait times on the phone, and that the business hadnt applied reasonable 
adjustments in its dealings with him. Tesco Bank agreed to send Mr C a final response.
Tesco Banks final response didnt agree that its agents had made a mistake when they 
advised Mr C it wasnt possible to switch the payment from one credit card to another. In 
addition, Tesco Bank didnt agree that its agents had lied to Mr C or that there were 
problems with the service provided. Tesco Bank said that, as a gesture of goodwill, it applied 
a two month interest waiver to Mr Cs credit card so he could move the balance to another 
provider and advised any missed payments would be reflected on his credit file. 
In addition, Tesco Bank didnt agree its agents had made a mistake by declining Mr Cs 
request for its CEOs contact details. Tesco Bank also apologised for some of the hold times 
Mr C had experienced when calling. Tesco Bank also said that to establish how it could help 
it asked Mr C to confirm the nature of his vulnerability or disability. Tesco Bank paid Mr C 
£25 to apologise for the hold times hed experienced and confirmed a two month interest 
waiver had been agreed. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They didnt think Tesco Bank had 
made a mistake when it refused to move the payment from one credit card to the other. The 
investigator also said that, as a service, its not our role to say whether Tesco Bank had 
breached the Equality Act 2010 which is a matter for the courts. But the investigator said 
they thought the first agent Mr C had spoken with couldve handled the call better and asked 
Tesco Bank to pay him a further £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr C didnt accept and said Tesco Bank had failed to make reasonable adjustments as 
required by the Equality Act 2010. Mr C didnt agree to settle in line with the investigators 
recommendations. Tesco Bank asked to appeal and said it didnt feel there were reasonable 
grounds to award further compensation to Mr C. As neither party accepted the investigators 
view, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr C has explained that similarities with the credit cards Tesco Bank has issued and the 
length of expiry date used caused confusion when making the payment in question. Tesco 
Bank has explained it increased the expiry date of its cards from three to five years when 
reissuing them. But I think its fair to note the credit cards had different card numbers. Im not 
persuaded that the similarities between the credit cards caused the incorrect account to be 
used for the payment Mr C made. 
Mr C asked Tesco Bank to move the transaction to his other credit card, but it declined. 
Tesco Bank has confirmed its approach and that there was no option to switch balances 
between two accounts held with it. Tesco Bank advised Mr C had the option of requesting a 
refund from the retailer and then completing the payment using the correct card. I 
understand why Mr C asked Tesco Bank to move the payment, but Im satisfied it correctly 
confirmed how it operates and that there was no facility in place to proceed on that basis. I 
can see that when Tesco Bank responded to Mr Cs complaint it agreed to waive interest for 
the credit card he used for a period of two months so he could look into completing a 
balance transfer to another lender. In my view, Tesco Bank considered the circumstances of 
Mr Cs complaint and I think its agreement to waive interest was a fair way to resolve this 
part of his case. 
When Mr C called Tesco Bank to discuss the payment he spoke with several members of 
staff. Ive listened to the available call and read the transcripts where recordings arent 
available. I can see that Mr C was keen to resolve his complaint that day and wanted Tesco 
Bank to move the payment from one credit card to the other. But when the agent advised 
that wasnt possible, Mr C asked to escalate the issue by speaking with a manager and 
obtaining contact details for Tesco Banks CEO. Mr C was initially told that a complaint 
would be raised and a call would be made to him within 48 hours. But the call was later 
escalated and a complaint raised. Mr C was able to discuss the issues raised with a 
manager. 
Tesco Banks confirmed its normal approach is for call backs with managers to be arranged. 
But in this case, it was possible for the call to be transferred to a manager when Mr C 
explained a call back wasnt possible. I dont doubt that Mr C found the process of escalating 
his concerns frustrating, but I havent been persuaded that Tesco Bank misled or treated him 
unfairly with the approach it took. 
When Tesco Bank responded to Mr Cs complaint it apologised for the length of time his 
calls were on hold and paid him £25 for the inconvenience caused. The investigator thought 
the first agent Mr C spoke with couldve handled the call better. They recommended Tesco Bank pay Mr C a further £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way the call 
was handled and lack of empathy shown. Ive listened to Mr Cs call with Tesco Bank and I 
agree there were times when the agent appeared to make light of the issues raised. I also 
felt the agent missed opportunities to calm the situation when Mr C asked to escalate his 
concerns. Ive noted the responses from both Mr C and Tesco Bank. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that a further payment of £25, taking the total award to £50, fairly reflects the level 
of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C by the way his calls were handled. So Im 
going to proceed on that basis. 
Mr Cs told us he feels Tesco Bank discriminated against him by failing to make reasonable 
adjustments in order for him to contact the CEO about his concerns. When Mr C spoke with 
Tesco Banks agents they advised it doesnt give out its CEOs direct phone number or email 
address. A postal address for Tesco Banks CEO was given to Mr C. But Mr Cs told us its 
his view that Tesco Banks failed to make reasonable adjustments as required under the 
Equality Act 2010 to allow him to call head office instead. 
Id like to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is unable to make findings about 
whether discrimination has taken place in terms of the Equality Act 2010. Thats a matter of 
law and only the courts have the power to make a decision of that nature. I have taken the 
relevant law into account in relation to Mr Cs concerns and whether I think Tesco Bank has 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of factors into 
consideration, including the provisions made in The Equality Act 2010. 
Throughout his discussions with Tesco Bank Mr C asked for contact details of the CEO and 
head office so he could escalate his concerns. The members of staff Mr C spoke with were 
consistent in explaining that it doesnt provide a direct phone number or email address for its 
CEO. And Tesco Bank went on to provide an address Mr C could use to write to the CEO. I 
understand Mr Cs view that asking him to send a letter demonstrates Tesco Bank failed to 
make reasonable adjustments as required by the Equality Act 2010. As Ive said above, its 
not our role to say whether Tesco Bank breached the Equality Act 2010 so Ive focused on 
whether it treated Mr C fairly. 
Whilst I understand why Mr C wanted to contact the CEO, I think its reasonable to say 
Tesco Bank has a process in place for customers who need to raise a complaint. And when 
Mr C raised concerns after Tesco Bank refused to move the payment to his other credit card, 
a complaint was raised and investigated. Tesco Bank went on to issue its final response and 
offered a settlement to try and resolve his complaint. The process Tesco Bank followed is in 
line with the complaint handling rules that are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, the 
industry regulator. Ive considered everything Mr Cs told us, but havent been persuaded 
that Tesco Banks approach was unfair. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and directing Tesco Bank 
to pay him a further £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay Mr C a 
further £25. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman