DRN-2331943
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of her company, that I will refer to as D, that HDI Global SE 
avoided (cancelled it as if it have never existed) Ds commercial property insurance policy 
after she made a claim following a fire.
What happened
Mrs W is the director of D. In 2014 she took out a commercial insurance policy with HDI to 
insure D and its premises. This was renewed each year, most recently in February 2019.
In April 2019 there was a fire at Ds premises and Mrs W made a claim on the policy. In 
May 2019 HDI wrote to Mrs W to inform her that it was declining the claim and would be 
avoiding Ds policy from the date it was taken out. It said Mrs W hadnt made a fair 
representation of Ds risk when she took out the policy as she hadnt declared three County 
Court Judgements (CCJs) that were linked to the business. It said it wouldnt have agreed to 
provide the policy if these had been declared. So under the Insurance Act 2015, it was 
entitled to avoid the policy.
Mrs W didnt think this was fair. She said one of the CCJs had been incorrectly registered 
against her. And she said the other two had been satisfied. She made a complaint to HDI.
HDI didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it was satisfied there were three CCJs that 
should have been disclosed when the policy was taken out. And that it wouldnt have 
covered D if it had known. So it said it was fair to avoid the policy. 
Mrs W still didnt agree this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think HDI had acted unfairly by avoided the policy. She said she could 
see that the courts had registered all three CCJs and that they were all linked to Mrs W. She 
therefore agreed that she hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk. 
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI has said that Mrs W misrepresented Ds risk by not telling it about three CCJs that were 
linked to the business. It says it wouldnt have offered any insurance cover at all if it had 
known about the CCJs. I need to decide if HDI has treated Mrs W, on behalf of D, fairly by 
avoiding the policy.
In order to determine this, I have considered the relevant law. Although Mrs W originally took 
out the policy for D in 2014, each renewal forms a new insurance contract between D and 
HDI. Therefore I have considered the most recent renewal before the claim was made  in 
February 2019. This renewal is covered by the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mrs W renewed the policy for D, she had a duty to 
make a fair presentation of Ds risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, 
the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to 
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and on what terms.
In this case I need to consider whether Mrs W ought to have known that the three CCJs 
would have influenced the judgement of HDI when it made the decision about offering and 
renewing the policy. 
HDI has said that it has found three CCJs linked to D:
One personal CCJ from 2015 that hadnt been satisfied when the policy was taken out, 
but has since.
One from 2014 relating to a different business, but in the name of Mrs W, that had been 
satisfied.
Another personal one from 2017 that hadnt been satisfied. 
Mrs W accepts that she was aware of the two personal CCJs but says the business one isnt 
related to her. She says it has been incorrectly registered against her when it should be 
registered against a completely different business that she has no connection to.
I have seen a copy of the CCJ and Im satisfied that it has been registered against Mrs W by 
the court. So I think HDI were fair to rely on this to conclude that this was against Mrs W. If 
Mrs W has concerns about the accuracy of this information, she will need to apply to the 
court to get the judgement set aside. But based on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied 
that all three CCJs were registered against Mrs W.
I have therefore considered whether Mrs W ought to have known they would have influenced 
HDIs view on offering the policy and therefore known she should have declared them and 
the start of the policy and at renewal. 
HDI has provided the Statement of Facts from the February 2019 renewal. At the top of the 
document it explains the insureds obligation under the Insurance Act 2015 to provide a fair 
presentation of risk. It goes on to say:
Your duty of fair representation applies at the start of the policy, at renewal and when any 
variation of the policy is arranged. If you fail to make a fair representation, the insurer may 
refuse to pay your claim or reduce the settlement amount, depending on the circumstances
Further down the document, the following question is printed:
Neither I, nor any directors or partners in the business or in the name of any other business
which any of us had an interest have:-
been the subject of a County Court Judgement (or the Scottish equivalents) in respect of
debt as private individuals or in connection with any business within the last six years. [or]
been a director or partner in a business that has been the subject of a County Court
Judgement (or the Scottish equivalents) in respect of debt within the last six years.
To this Mrs W answered No. 
From the information Ive detailed above, its clear this wasnt a fair presentation of the risk. 
Although Mrs W has disputed one of the CCJs she has confirmed she was aware of the 
other two, so even putting the third one aside, I dont think Mrs W told HDI everything it ought to know at renewal of the policy. And the fact HDI includes a question about CCJs 
against any individuals connected to the business would make it clear to Mrs W that this 
information would influence its decision on offering cover. So Im satisfied that Mrs W did 
make a misrepresentation at this renewal.
Under the act, if we conclude that the policyholder didnt provide a fair presentation of risk
then we must go on to assess whether the breach was a qualifying one. This means that if 
the insurer had known all the information, they would have acted differently. Either by
offering different policy terms or by not offering a policy at all. The insurer is only entitled to
take further action if it can show that a qualifying breach has occurred.
HDI has provided a statement from its underwriters that confirms that it wouldnt have 
offered covered at the start of the policy, or agreed to renew the policy, if the three CCJs had 
been declared. So Im satisfied that there has been a qualifying breach.
Under the Insurance Act, where theres been a qualifying misrepresentation, HDI can avoid 
the policy and refuse any claims. HDI has already returned the policy premiums to Mrs W, so 
Im satisfied its provided a suitable remedy in line with its requirements under the act.
For these reasons I think HDI has acted fairly by avoiding Ds policy, so I wont require it to 
do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require HDI Global SE to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman