DRN-2518602
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was declined a loan by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr M applied online for a loan to buy a car with Barclays in December 2019. He was 
declined as his account had a missed payment marker on it. Barclays reviewed Mr Ms 
application and approved it  after asking for more information. Mr M didnt take the loan as 
he used his savings instead.
Mr M complained. He had a good track record with Barclays and had repaid previous loans 
without difficulty. He was told his account had a code on it which indicated hed a missed 
payment on a Barclays product. He couldnt understand this - hed never done so.
Barclays replied. They said they couldnt understand whatd happened. They said Mr M had 
never missed a payment on any product with them. Theyd investigated but couldnt find a 
reason. The marker meant that Mr M could no longer have a pre-approved limit for 
borrowing money. Barclays apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid 
compensation of £175.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Out investigator looked at what had happened. In 
January 2021, she said Barclays still couldnt find out what the cause of the problem was  it 
could only be a systems error, but they couldnt sort it out. She said that the Barclays offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr M feels about this. He is a long-standing customer with Barclays. 
Hes had several loans with them and repaid them all  and never missed a payment. He 
has a good track record of which hes proud. But when he applied online for a loan to buy a 
car, a code appeared which said hed missed a payment on a Barclays product. No one 
could explain why this happened or the reason for it.
We have asked Barclays to look at what happened again, and they have  but they still cant 
explain how this situation occurred. An unfortunate consequence of whats happened is that 
Mr M cant now have pre-approved limits for lending products  so Barclays will have to 
consider his loan applications from now on.
Barclays have confirmed there is no affect on Mr Ms credit file. Theyve agreed to make 
sure notes are put on Mr Ms file to show whats happened. And theyve also said they will 
write to Mr M to record his payment record with them to date.  
So, while I appreciate that Mr M will find this frustrating, there is no more that this service 
can do to resolve Mr Ms complaint. I think that Barclays offer of compensation of £175 is a 
fair one. If Mr M wishes to accept it, then he should contact them to arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman