DRN-1504974
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard issued her with a 
different type of credit card than the one she applied for. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs S used a comparison website to search for a credit card that suited 
her needs. When Mrs S found a card she liked she clicked on a link and was taken to the 
Barclaycard website in order to make the application. The application was approved and 
Barclaycard sent out information about the account and a card for Mrs S to use.
A few months later Mrs S used the card to make a large purchase under the impression that 
the card had an interest free period for purchases. The next month when Mrs S saw on her 
statement that she'd been charged interest on her purchase she contacted Barclaycard. 
They explained the account was a cashback credit card, and not a 0% interest credit card as 
Mrs S believed.
Mrs S complained to Barclaycard who said they couldn't see any error in the application nor 
any evidence that she was given the wrong account. To help with the situation Barclaycard 
refunded the months interest that had been charged and stopped interest on the account for 
several months to let Mrs S assess her options. Mrs S remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought Barclaycard provided 
enough evidence to show they acted correctly within the application process and that they 
didn't do anything wrong. Our investigator also considered the customer service Mrs S 
received from Barclaycard, but didn't think they acted unfairly in the way they communicated. 
Mrs S disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've no doubt Mrs S wanted to apply for a credit card with a 0% interest free period. The way 
in which the account was used shows Mrs S thought this is how it worked. However, I must 
look at what account Mrs S actually applied for. 
Mrs S chose a credit card account from a comparison website. I know there has been some 
debate about what account was chosen on the website, and Mrs S has contacted the 
comparison website herself to check the details. The comparison website sources links to 
products and redirects customers to the provider of that product on the website for that 
company. No actual application is made through the comparison website. Mrs S made 
her application directly on the Barclaycard website so this is where I have focussed my 
investigation.
Barclaycard has provided information which shows that when Mrs S landed on their website 
she had chosen an account with 0% interest free period from the comparison website. Next however the evidence from Barclaycard shows Mrs S clicked away from this account to a 
webpage with details of a cashback account, and this is where the application was made. 
Barclaycard have said this type of thing sometimes happens when a customer navigates 
away from the original webpage they landed on. This might be because the customer used 
the eligibility checker which shows other types of accounts, and they might chose to take a 
different account, or for some other reason.
Neither Barclaycard nor I can say for sure how, or why, this happened with Mrs S. However 
from the evidence, I'm satisfied the application Mrs S made was on the webpage for a 
cashback credit card account. Barclaycard have also provided evidence showing that as part 
of the application process Mrs S accepted the credit agreement and terms and conditions of 
the cashback account.
After the application was approved Barclaycard say they sent Mrs S two welcome emails 
about her account. These emails included the name of the account; Barclaycard Platinum 
cashback card.  Whilst they haven't been able to provide copies of the exact emails which 
were sent, I'm persuaded by the evidence that these emails were sent. By doing this I'm 
satisfied Barclaycard made Mrs S aware of the type of account that had been taken out. This 
is before any spending was done on the account.
Mrs S is also unhappy with how Barclaycard dealt with her complaint. Having considered all 
the evidence I'm happy that Barclaycard treated Mrs S, and her complaint, in a fair and 
reasonable way. Mrs S is clearly unhappy with what happened, but I don't think Barclaycard 
meant any offence in what they were saying, or how they were saying it.
To help Mrs S in her situation Barclaycard refunded the months interest which had been 
charged, and put future interest on hold for several more months. I'm satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable way of dealing with the complaint. This gave Mrs S time to decide the best 
way forward with the outstanding amount on the account.  
Mrs S is also concerned that other customers have reported the same problem she 
experienced. Barclaycard told Mrs S that this has happened in a very small number of 
cases. They say that not all situations are the same, and it's not an indication of an error. I 
can understand Mrs S' concerns here, however I must look at what happened in 
her particular circumstances. I also haven't seen anything to indicate that there's a 
systemic problem.
Having considered all of the evidence, I'm satisfied Barclaycard issued Mrs S with the type 
of credit card account she applied for on their website.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman