DRN-2447168
The complaint
Mr K complains that Anglo Pacific International plc, a broker, mis-sold him a marine transit 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K moved overseas in 2018. He contracted Anglo Pacific to ship his belongings to his new 
home. Anglo Pacific also acted as an insurance broker. It recommended that Mr K buy 
insurance to cover his belongings for any accidental damage while they were being shipped. 
It sold Mr K a marine transit insurance policy in February 2018.
Unfortunately, some of Mr Ks belongings were damaged during transportation and in June 
2018 he made a claim under his policy. Anglo Pacific forwarded this to the insurance 
companys claims handling agent. Around this time, Mr K realised the insurance company 
wasnt the one named on his policy.
Mr K complained to Anglo Pacific about this. He believes his policy was mis-sold because 
his insurer wasnt the one named in his policy documents. Mr K also says he wasnt given 
these documents when he asked for them in October 2018. He says that because the policy 
he bought wasnt the one advertised, Anglo Pacific should refund his premium, plus interest. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Anglo Pacific acknowledged that it had changed insurers and its former insurer was named 
on Mr Ks policy. It sent us its written evidence to a related court case brought by Mr K in 
December 2018 and settled in May 2019. This said: At the time, we were changing insurers 
from Certain Underwriters at Lloyds to [Mr Ks insurer]. This involved the updating of 
insurance materials during the transition and there was delay in receiving new 
documentation and updating the content of our website. Anglo Pacific said the cover 
provided to Mr K by its new insurer was exactly the same as that set out in his policy and 
he hadnt been prejudiced by the mistake on his documents.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
Anglo Pacific changed insurers after Mr K took out his policy, but this didnt affect the cover 
the policy gave Mr K so he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. However, he found that 
Anglo Pacific caused Mr K some distress by not keeping him informed about changes to his 
policy and for not providing policy documents when asked. He recommended Anglo Pacific 
pay Mr K £100 to reflect this.
Anglo Pacific accepted our investigators findings. Mr K did not, so the case was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made detailed submissions to this service. Ive read and considered these, but I 
dont think I need to comment on each point to reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead 
on what I think are the key issues.
First, a clarification. Our investigator understood Anglo Pacifics submissions to us as 
meaning it changed insurance companies after Mr K took out his insurance but before he 
made a claim. Mr K challenged this, and I agree with him. I think the most likely 
interpretation of Anglo Pacifics evidence, including its evidence to court in May 2019, is that 
it changed insurer at some point before February 2018 but hadnt updated its policy 
documents with the new insurers name. This is Mr Ks key point  the wrong insurer was 
named on his policy.
While I agree with Mr K on this, I dont agree that this error automatically means the policy 
was mis-sold. While unfortunate, I understand that an old document can sometimes be used 
by mistake. I need to decide whether Anglo Pacifics mistake changed the product offered or 
caused Mr K any financial detriment. In this case, I dont think it did.
Mr K told us he researched the insurer named on his policy and found a positive online 
review. He says he wouldnt have bought the policy from Anglo Pacific if the correct insurer 
had been named because its online reviews at that time were negative. Instead, hed have 
bought cover from a different insurer. 
Ive thought about this. Its worth noting that the company Mr K researched was not the 
insurer; it was another insurance broker that administered the policy on behalf of the insurer. 
The insurer named on Mr Ks policy is the Society of Lloyds (described in Mr Ks policy as 
Certain Underwriters at Lloyds and others). I also note that, as Mr K pointed out, the online 
reviewer later withdrew his initial positive review about the broker and reduced his rating 
from five stars to one. While Ive no doubt Mr K considered customer reviews, I think its 
unlikely his decision to buy the Anglo Pacific policy was based on a single positive review. 
From what Ive seen, his primary reason for buying the policy was the cover it gave him.
Anglo Pacific has sent us the corrected policy document. Apart from the name of the insurer, 
the policies are identical. Im satisfied that the insurance was the right type of policy for Mr K. 
He wanted to protect his belongings when they were shipped overseas, and thats what his 
policy did. Some of Mr Ks belongings were damaged in transit and Mr K was able to make a 
claim for this. The mistake in Anglo Pacifics documentation didnt affect his premium or level 
of cover. 
I appreciate that Mr K had a subsequent dispute about the settlement of his claim and took 
Anglo Pacific and his insurers claims handling agent to court. Mr K told us that he incurred 
costs providing information to support his case. But, given the circumstances, I cant say with 
any certainty that this action would have been avoided if his insurance had been 
underwritten by the insurer named on his policy.
Mr K accuses Anglo Pacific of making inaccurate statements to the court and of causing 
detriment to other customers. Thats not something this service can look at; thats a matter 
for the court.
Our role is to look at the impact on Mr K. I agree that his policy named the wrong insurer. But 
everything else about the insurance was correct. I dont think Anglo Pacifics error caused Mr 
K any financial detriment. As I said above, I recognise that Mr K incurred costs in bringing 
the dispute about his claim to court, but this wasnt directly related to the documentation 
error. For these reasons, I dont think Anglo Pacific mis-sold Mr Ks policy.
I agree with our investigator that finding out his insurer was not the one named on his policy 
caused Mr K some distress. I also find that Anglo Pacific failed to provide Mr K with copies of his policy documents when he asked for them in October 2018. Our investigator 
recommended Anglo Pacific pay Mr K £100 to reflect these failings, and Anglo Pacific 
agreed. In the circumstances, I think this is a fair settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Anglo Pacific International plc to 
pay Mr K £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman