DRN-2917386
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Tradex Insurance Company Limited (Tradex) turned down a claim he 
made on his motor trade insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr Js vehicle was damaged, and he made a claim under his policy. Tradex 
declined the claim as it didnt think Mr J had shown he had an insurable interest in the 
vehicle or that it was being used for business purposes on the date of the incident.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
The vehicle in question is not registered to Mr J, so Tradex say he doesnt have an 
insurable interest in it. Mr J has provided evidence that he jointly owns the vehicle 
with another party and has provided an explanation for why it is registered in another 
name. 
I appreciate Tradexs concerns here, however having reviewed all of the evidence 
available to me about the circumstances in which the vehicle was purchased. And, 
the information Mr J has been able to provide about how the purchase was funded. 
Im suitably persuaded that Mr J does have an insurable interest in the vehicle and as 
such, as it is declared on the policy, cover should be provided for it. 
Tradex has also raised concern about how the vehicle came to be damaged and 
whether it was being used for business purposes at that point. I wont disclose the 
exact circumstances here as they are relatively unique and could result in Mr J being 
identified. 
I acknowledge the circumstances are somewhat unusual and Ive taken into account 
the social media posts Tradex has pointed to. However, Ive also weighed this up 
against Mr Js testimony which has been consistent throughout and is in part, 
supported by the same social media posts. Im inclined to reach the same conclusion 
as the investigator here that I think it is more likely than not the vehicle was being 
used for business purposes and in a way that promoted the business Mr J has. The 
fact other businesses may have benefitted from the same situation is irrelevant here 
to my mind. 
Given the above, it is my decision that Tradex should now meet Mr Js claim. 
Mr J has set out the impact the situation has had on him and his business. Being 
without a crucial vehicle to the business and being unable to afford to purchase a 
new one, has caused him stress and upset and, put a strain on the viability of his 
business. I think Tradex should pay Mr J £500 compensation as this fairly reflects the 
trouble and inconvenience that has been caused by the claim being declined.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Tradex should do the following:
Pay Mr Js claim (less any applicable excess) and add 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date the claim was initially declined to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr J £500 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint against Tradex Insurance Company 
Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman