DRN-3130781
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to decline her claim for a refund of 
an item she bought.   
What happened
Mrs B ordered an item but then attempted to cancel the order. She contacted Barclays and 
they raised a dispute on her behalf. The matter reason for the dispute was recorded as paid 
by other means. Barclays then wrote to Mrs B and asked for further information and, having 
received no response, they closed the claim. Mrs B contacted Barclays again and they 
logged the claim again. They didnt uphold the dispute as the merchant confirmed they had 
only been paid once and the item hadnt been returned. So, Mrs B complained.   
Barclays responded and accepted they had made an error. They explained, when Mrs B first 
contacted them to raise a claim, she told them she had chosen the wrong item and wanted 
to cancel the order. Barclays said they then logged the claim incorrectly as Mrs B had paid 
for the item and it had been dispatched. So, at this point, Mrs B shouldve been advised that 
it didnt fall within the criteria for a chargeback. Barclays said the second claim was logged 
again using the wrong reason as they used the original details. Barclays said, as Mrs B 
hadnt been able to supply any evidence to confirm she had attempted to return the item 
after delivery then, despite Barclays errors, this wouldve led to an unsuccessful claim in any 
event. Barclays offered £50 compensation for their errors. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. He thought Barclays offer was reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mrs B will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs B. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Barclays have admitted they got things wrong when they didnt log Mrs Bs original 
claim correctly. This led to the claim being registered as a dispute with the matter reason 
being recorded as Mrs B having paid by other means. Barclays accept this wasnt the 
correct approach as Mrs B hadnt yet received the item so she shouldve been informed to 
wait until it arrives and then try to return it to the merchant under their returns policy. 
Barclays accept there was a further error when they logged the claim again using the same 
matter reason. The claim was declined as the merchant was able to evidence they were only 
paid once and the item hadnt been returned. The only issue I have to decide is whether the 
offer made by Barclays is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Barclays should compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Barclays logged the claim incorrectly on two occasions so   
Mrs B was understandably upset by finding out the correct process hadnt been followed and 
she hadnt received accurate guidance about the appropriate next steps. Mrs B was also 
inconvenienced in having to log her claim again, and this couldve been avoided had 
Barclays given the correct guidance when she first contacted them to make a claim. That 
said, I think the offer of £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mrs B feels, had the claim been correctly recorded, then it wouldve been determined 
in her favour and she wouldve been refunded the £174.45 she paid. I havent seen any 
information to show Mrs B has provided evidence to Barclays to show the item has been 
returned, so the outcome of the claim wouldnt have led to a refund even if the claim was 
correctly recorded. When the claim was originally made, the item was dispatched but hadnt 
yet arrived. And, when the second claim was made, the merchant was able to evidence they 
had only been paid once and the item has been delivered and not returned. So, even if the 
matter reason hadnt been logged incorrectly, I cant see a chargeback claim wouldve been 
successful in either of these situations. I cant see the incorrect recording of the claim has 
had any wider impact or that the correct recording of the claim wouldve achieved a different 
outcome. 
I can see our investigator has provided details of the merchants returns policy which he was 
able to locate from their website. I note Mrs B says no policy was available at the time she 
wanted to return the item and she had attempted to contact the merchant several times 
without success. I do acknowledge this and understand it will have been frustrating for Mrs B 
but I cant say this means Barclays have made an error in declining Mrs Bs claim. Mrs B can 
of course take this up with the merchant and see whether they will consider a refund in 
return for the item being sent back given the trouble Mrs B says she had in contacting them. 
In summary, I think Barclays have made an error here and I think their offer of £50 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already made an offer to pay £50 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £50 to Mrs B, if they havent done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman