DRN-2889304
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr S payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2009.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr S has said that he hadnt known that PPI was being added to his account  he thought he 
had signed up only for a mortgage. However, this did happen about 12 years ago and I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything from that long ago. And, in fact, I can 
see there was a separate PPI application form where Mr S has answered questions and 
which he signed. So I do think there was discussion at the time about whether he wanted 
PPI, and that Mr S applied for the PPI, even if he doesnt now remember it. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. Ill explain. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ss particular 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr S were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr S received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr S would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr S in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr S couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr S would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr S to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds could have explained the costs and benefits of the policy better than it 
did. But I dont think its likely that fuller and clearer information about the costs would have 
affected whether Mr S took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman