DRN-2407895
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs M complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) turned down Mr Ms claim 
and voided their joint policy. They also complained about delays during the claims process. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr M.
What happened 
Mr and Mrs M applied for a joint, level term life and critical illness policy in May 2013. The 
policy started on 1 June 2013. The policy was for a term of 14 years and the sum assured 
was £130,000. Mr M submitted the joint application directly to Zurich. 
Mr M contacted Zurich in 2018 to let it know hed been diagnosed with Lymphoma. He then 
submitted a claim under his critical illness policy in April 2019 for kidney failure and said the 
condition was diagnosed in December 2018.  
Zurich turned down Mr Ms claim in September 2019. It said when Mr M applied for the 
policy he was asked two questions that he answered no, when Zurich says he should have 
answered yes. These were: 
Have you ever suffered from or been asked or advised to have any test or investigation for 
diabetes, sugar in the urine or any kidney disease or disorder?
In the last five years, unless already disclosed, have you suffered from or been asked or 
advised to have any test or investigation for bladder or urinary tract disorders or infections or 
other disorders of the genitourinary system including blood or protein in the urine, or any 
disease that was sexually transmitted?
Zurich said it wrote to Mr M in May 2013 and asked him to check the information in his 
application and to let Zurich know, in writing, if anything was incorrect or had to be changed 
before the cover on his plan started.
Zurich said the medical information it received, after Mr M made his claim, showed that in 
1990 Mr M underwent a right nephrectomy (removal of a kidney). It also said Mr M 
underwent kidney function tests in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, which it said indicated 
a deteriorating renal function, with proteinuria (protein in urine), since 2010. 
Zurich said its underwriters would not have offered a plan on the same terms if they had 
been aware of the extent of Mr Ms condition. Zurich said if it had known about the 
nephrectomy, it would have requested medical information about the health of his remaining 
kidney. And in light of the history of kidney function tests and the proteinuria, no terms would 
have been offered. Zurich said it intended to cancel the plan from the outset, meaning the 
plan would be treated as if it never existed and it refunded all premiums paid. 
Mr M complained to Zurich in November 2019. He said he answered the questions honestly 
in 2013. He said the application asked questions about arteries, legs, lumps and moles all in 
the plural, but it only asked about the kidney, which is singular. He said when he filled out 
the application, he had only one kidney which, to the best of his knowledge, was functioning 
fine, as he was not receiving any medication or treatment. He said if the question had asked 
about a disorder of the kidneys then it would have prompted a positive answer. 
In relation to the question about tests for protein in urine, Mr M said he also answered this 
truthfully. He said that since 2008 he has had an annual health check that covered kidney 
function, liver function and blood pressure and he was never recalled by his GP for any 
reason and was never informed about protein in the urine. He said confirmation can be 
provided of this by his GP.
Mr M also said Zurich knew it intended to turn down his claim in May 2019, but it continued 
looking at the claim for a further five months and received premiums during that time. Mr M 
said he believes Zurich are legally obliged to fulfil the claim as they continued with the 
contract by receiving payment for more than four months after they had the information they 
used to turn down the claim. He said they continued to accept the risk and consideration.
Mr M also asked why his wifes life and critical illness cover had been cancelled as its now 
made it more difficult and more expensive for her to get a policy because she is older.  
Zurich responded to Mr Ms complaint. In addition to the complaint about his claim being 
declined, Zurich said Mr M believes Zurich led him to believe it would admit the claim once it 
had confirmation that he was on the transplant list. 
Zurich said it reserves the right to request all relevant information. It said the receipt of the 
medical answers was outside of its control and even though it chased on a regular basis, it 
took time to gather everything needed. It said it sent regular updates and spoke to Mr M 
several times to clarify the situation.  
In relation to Mr Ms claim being declined, Zurich said the questions asked of Mr M were 
quite specific and were designed to draw out any extra risk the individual might pose. And by 
Mr M answering no to the kidney questions, he didnt give Zurichs underwriters the 
opportunity to establish if it would have offered him the plan. It said in this case, the 
misrepresentation was such that no terms could have been offered.
Zurich also said it found no evidence that it confirmed to Mr M that it would pay the claim 
once it knew he was on the kidney transplant list. It said the request was for additional 
information to help Zurich with its assessment of the claim. 
Mr M was unhappy with Zurichs response and so complained to this service. 
When our investigator contacted Zurich, it confirmed that it classified the misrepresentation 
as reckless. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said the question that asks about 
whether Mr M had a kidney disorder is clear and doesnt state that its asking only about a 
remaining kidney, if one has been removed. So, our investigator said Mr M answered this 
question incorrectly and a misrepresentation was made. 
Our investigator said the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, meaning whether it 
would've affected the terms Zurich would have been willing to offer. And hes seen the 
underwriting pages and comments from Zurich which confirm this. He agreed with Zurichs 
classification of the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless. And this means Zurich is 
allowed to allowed to decline any claims, void the policy and retain any premiums paid. 
However, in this case Zurich has refunded the premiums.  Our investigator said this was a joint policy and it wasnt fair for Zurich to void Mrs Ms policy. 
He said if Mrs M would like to continue with the policy, Zurich should calculate the portion of 
premium which related to her part of the policy and when premiums are repaid, Zurich 
should reinstate Mrs Ms cover as a single policy.
Our investigator also looked into whether there were any delays by Zurich when the claim 
was being looked into. He said Zurich had all the information it needed to decline Mr Ms 
claim, including a response from its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) by 30 July 2019. But Zurich 
waited for some additional information which wasn't needed, as it was already known that it 
would be voiding the policy. The claim outcome was eventually sent to Mr M on 25 
September 2019, just under 2 months after it could have been. Our investigator said Zurich 
should pay Mr & Mrs M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M responded and didnt agree with what our investigator said. He reiterated that he 
answered the question asked about kidney disease as it was on the day of completing the 
application. He also outlined a number of reasons why he thought Zurich was being reckless 
and providing misrepresentations in relation to delays in processing his claim and continuing 
to take premiums from him after it had made its decision. 
Zurich also responded and said it didnt think Mr M should be awarded compensation for any 
delays. It said this policy should never have existed, meaning it shouldnt have had cause to 
investigate the claim. And it doesnt think Mr M should be effectively rewarded for making it 
consider a claim where significant information was withheld. 
As neither party agreed with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 September 2020. I said I intended to say that Zurich 
didnt need to reinstate a single policy for Mrs M, but otherwise the outcome was unchanged. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr M responded and said he thought Id overlooked his point about contract law, in that 
Zurich allowed him to continue with the cover after it knew of its own CMOs intention to 
decline the claim. He thought the complaint required a legal overview on contract law. Mr M 
wanted this service to find out from Zurich why it had continued to take his premiums. 
Mr M also said he thought Zurich hadnt carried out a thorough investigation into whether he 
had been told by a member of staff there that his claim would be paid if he provided 
confirmation that he was on the transplant list. He wanted this service to find out if the 
member of staff who carried out the investigation knew that the CMO had already declined 
his claim when he had the conversation about the transplant list. He said this impacts on his 
claim as it shows the quality of staff that Zurich entrust to deal with customer complaints. 
Mr M also said it was hypocritical of Zurich to refer to him as reckless and he thinks it was 
reckless in the investigation it carried out into his claim and complaint. 
Zurich responded and confirmed it had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am partially upholding Mr Ms complaint.In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
including those made by Mr M after the provisional decision was issued, Ive limited my 
response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say whether 
Zurich acted fairly when it said Mr M made a misrepresentation, when it classified the 
misrepresentation as reckless, voided the policy for both parties and turned down Mr Ms 
claim. Ive also looked at whether there were unnecessary delays in processing Mr Ms 
claim. 
I first of all looked at the relevant questions asked by Zurich, to see whether I think they 
are worded clearly enough for Mr M to know what information he was being asked to 
provide. And Im satisfied that they are clearly worded. 
I know that Mr M doesnt agree that the question asking about kidney disease was clearly 
worded. He said that it refers to only a single kidney and if Zurich wanted information 
about both of Mr Ms kidneys, then it should have phrased the question differently. But I 
dont agree and Im satisfied that a reasonable consumer, which is the appropriate test 
here, would understand that they were being asked to provide information about either or 
both kidneys. 
Having looked at Mr Ms medical records, Im satisfied that a misrepresentation was 
made. Ill explain why. 
Mr M was asked a question at the application stage about whether he had ever suffered 
from or been asked or advised to have any test or investigation for kidney disease or 
disorder. Mr Ms medical records show that he had a history of problems with his right 
kidney since childhood and this was removed in 1990. 
I know Mr M said that at the time he answered the question, so in 2013, there were no 
concerns with his remaining kidney. But the question wasnt asking about kidney function 
just at that particular point in time. It was asking if he ever had tests or investigations for 
kidney disease or disorder. And given that Mr M suffered from kidney disease in the past, 
Im satisfied that he should have answered this question differently. And Im satisfied that 
If Zurich had known that Mr M only had one kidney, it would have wanted to know how 
well Mr Ms remaining kidney was functioning, to help it decide whether it was willing to 
offer him a policy. 
Mr M also underwent a kidney function test annually since 2008 and these tests werent 
disclosed at the application stage. Mr M said these were undertaken as part of a mens 
health initiative through his GP and so werent undertaken because there were any 
concerns about his kidney. So he doesnt see them as investigations into possible kidney 
disease. However, when this is looked at in context, so taking Mr Ms kidney removal and 
more recent CT and ultrasound scans  mentioned below  into account, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr M was aware that the tests undertaken in the couple of years 
preceding the policy being taken out were to monitor his kidney function for good reason. 
So Im satisfied that this was another reason why Mr M should have answered the 
question differently. Mr M was also asked a question at application stage about whether, in the five years 
prior to taking out the policy, he had suffered from or been asked or advised to have any 
test or investigation for, amongst other things, blood or protein in his urine. Mr M 
answered no, but his medical records indicate that a cystoscopy was carried out in 
October 2011 because of blood in his urine. And he had a CT scan in November 2011 
because of bleeding in his urinary tract. Given the intrusive nature of these tests and that 
they had to be carried out in hospital, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr M would have 
recalled the tests and would have known why they were required. So Im satisfied that Mr 
M should have answered this question differently. 
Having seen the underwriting criteria, the explanation provided by Zurich and the 
conclusion of the CMO, Im satisfied that Zurich would have altered the terms of the 
policy it was willing to offer to Mr M, if it had known his full medical history. It would have 
offered him only life cover, at a higher cost, and wouldnt have offered critical illness 
cover at all. So Zurich acted fairly when it said this was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Zurich classified Mr Ms misrepresentation as reckless and I think this was fair in the 
circumstances. I say this because Mr M had a kidney disorder that resulted in a kidney 
being removed over two decades ago. And in the three years prior to the policy being 
taken out, he had kidney function tests that suggested the functioning of his remaining 
kidney had become a concern. And there were a number of hospital tests in the two 
years prior to the policy because of blood in his urine. The questions asked by Zurich 
clearly captured the problems Mr M had in the distant and more recent past. And I dont 
think Mr M failed to answer these questions correctly because of a careless oversight. 
Mr Ms job also means he has a familiarity with the application process and knows how 
important it is to disclose medical information and the impact this has on a businesses 
decision to accept the risk and offer a policy. 
Given all of the above, Im satisfied Zurich acted fairly when it treated the 
misrepresentation as reckless. Under CIDRA its entitled to cancel the policy from the 
start date and keep the premiums paid. But I can see it has returned the premiums and 
I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Zurich cancelled the joint policy in its entirety and hasnt offered Mr Ms wife a single 
policy. Hes understandably concerned about this. Given the reckless misrepresentation, 
Im satisfied that theres no requirement for Zurich to look into what might have happened 
and what position Mr M and his wife might have been in if the misrepresentation hadnt 
happened, in the way it would if the misrepresentation had been classified as careless. 
Under CIDRA, Zurich may avoid the contract and this is what it has opted to do. It is not 
required to take any other steps. So, I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly here.
Mr M has also complained about unnecessary delays with Zurich letting him know his 
claim had been declined. To summarise, all of the necessary information from Mr Ms GP 
appears to have been received by Zurich in July 2019 and was then referred to the CMO, 
who provided their assessment on 30 July 2019. At that point, Zurich was aware that Mr 
M was on the kidney transplant list and so spent some time checking whether Mr M was 
eligible to claim under major organ transplant. 
Ordinarily, I would expect an insurer to do all that it could to ensure it had thoroughly 
explored all claim options for a consumer. But in this case Zurich knew by the end of 
July 2019 that it would never have offered Mr M a critical illness policy, and so he would 
never have been able to claim under major organ transplant. So I think this was an 
unnecessary step for Zurich to take. This meant there was an unnecessary delay in letting Mr M know that his claim was declined. Im satisfied that the £200 already 
suggested as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair.  
I know Mr M thinks that by Zurich continuing to accept his premiums, it has accepted the 
amended risk on the same terms and so should pay the claim. And he emphasised this 
point again when he responded to the provisional decision. But Im satisfied the correct 
remedy for delays with a claim, where premiums have continued to be paid  as they 
would most likely always be, unless waiver of premium applied  is compensation for 
those delays. It wouldnt be reasonable to suggest Zurich should settle the claim when 
its been established that Mr M made a reckless misrepresentation.   
When he responded to the provisional decision, Mr M said he would like this service to 
look into the investigation carried out by Zurich  in relation to the conversation he says 
he had with a member of staff where he was told his claim would be paid if he confirmed 
he was on the transplant list  prior to responding to his complaint. But I dont intend to 
look into this. While this service can, and has, looked into delays in relation to the claims 
process, we cant look at how Zurich deals with complaints from consumers, as 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity.  
While I have sympathy for Mr Ms current situation, and I know my decision will come as a 
disappointment, I could only ask Zurich to take a different course of action in relation to his 
claim and policy if I thought it had treated Mr M unfairly. But Im satisfied that it hasnt.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to 
pay Mr and Mrs M £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman