DRN-2046009
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold a life and critical illness assurance policy by Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
What happened
In July 2014 Mr R was advised by Lloyds to take out life and critical illness cover. The 
policy was set up on an increasing basis with an initial sum assured of £10,000 and monthly 
premiums of £27.25. It had a term of 18 years and included premium protection.
Mr R contacted Lloyds about the policy in October 2019 saying the cover it provided wasnt 
what he thought hed taken out. He said the adviser led him to believe it would provide an 
income if he was unable to work due to sickness. And so, he cancelled the policy and 
complained to Lloyds about how it was sold. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said their adviser initially recommended life and 
critical illness cover of about £66,000 alongside an Essential Earning Cover policy - which 
would provide a monthly income of about £645 per month in the event of being unable to 
work  but Mr R declined these due to cost. And so, a revised recommendation was made for 
£10,000 worth of life and critical illness cover to meet Mr Rs identified need  that being, 
how he would cope financially with having to adapt his property, pay household bills as well 
as mobility and treatment costs if he suffered a critical illness. 
Lloyds further explained that as the policy included premium protection  which meant they 
would pay the premiums after a period of 26 weeks if Mr R was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness  they said its reasonable to believe this is where he gained the wrong 
impression of the policys benefits. But Mr R wouldve received documentation confirming 
the details of the policy. And Mr R had the opportunity to cancel it within the 30-day cooling 
off period if he didnt think it met his needs. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she didnt 
think Lloyds had to do anything further. She said she didnt think it was unreasonable for the 
policy to be recommended as it was documented that Mr R had concerns about coping 
financially in the event of suffering from a critical illness. And the 18-year term took him to 
his preferred retirement age. Our investigator also explained the adviser did recommend an 
income protection product but Mr R declined this option. And the documentation for the 
policy Mr R took out clearly explains it provided life and critical illness cover. So, Mr R 
ought to have read this documentation to ensure the policy was right for him and his 
circumstances. 
Mr R disagreed and so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs frustration at realising his policy didnt provide the cover he thought he 
had. But, while I know this will come as a disappointment to him, I dont think I can fairly 
conclude the life and critical illness assurance policy he took out was mis-sold. Ill explain 
why.
Mr R says he felt pressurised and tricked in to taking out the policy. And that as his parents 
had died the previous year, Lloyds took advantage of this as they wouldve known his mind 
wasnt where it normally would be. Im very sorry to hear of Mr Rs loss. But, as I wasnt 
present at the meeting, I cant be sure what was discussed between him and the adviser. Ive 
therefore looked at the documentary evidence available.
The financial report collated by Lloyds adviser identified two financial objectives for Mr R:
Protecting your lifestyle against critical illness because you wish to have 
some cover in place to protect yourself in the event of suffering a Critical 
Illness to help pay certain costs that you may incur as a result like changes to 
accommodation or mobility.
Protecting your income against sickness or accident because you wish to have 
some cover in place to protect yourself and your monthly outgoings like your 
rent, utilities and food if you are unable to work due to accident or sickness.
The adviser recommend Mr R take out about £66,000 worth of critical illness cover and an 
Essential Earnings Cover (income protection) policy. Its recorded however that Mr R, 
understandably, declined these policy recommendations due to affordability reasons. So, the 
adviser recommended Mr R take out £10,000 worth of critical illness cover over an 18-year 
term to cover him up until his preferred retirement age. 
Given Mr Rs concerns about affordability, I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser 
to present him with other options that fit in to his budget. The financial report also explained 
to Mr R that he may need more or less cover than this. But the amount of critical illness 
cover taken by Mr R went some way to bridging the £66,000 need identified. So, I think it 
was reasonable for this to be recommended and that the term of 18 years, taking Mr R to his 
preferred retirement age, was appropriate in the circumstances. 
An Essential Earnings Cover policy wasnt taken by Mr R. But I think the financial report 
clearly explained this to him and highlighted the risk of not doing so. It says:
You have declined this policy because you have a limited budget available that you 
are willing to spend on cover, and feel that you are not as concerned with covering 
your Income on Sickness need as you are covering your lifestyle needs, and this 
means that you will not have the recommended cover in place in this area to help your 
monthly outgoings if you were to be unable to work due to accident or sickness. The 
consequences of this are that you may struggle to meet the monthly payments you 
require, meaning you may suffer.
Im therefore satisfied Lloyds made it clear to Mr R the cover he was, and wasnt, taking out. 
So, if Mr R didnt feel this was suitable for his needs or thought otherwise, he couldve 
questioned this at the time. Ive not seen that this happened.Furthermore, policy documentation was given to Mr R by Lloyds and also later sent to him  
after the policy was set up  by the provider. This included a Key Features Document, which 
says:
Its aims
To pay out a cash sum if, during the benefit term,
you die,
you are diagnosed with a terminal illness, or
you are diagnosed with a critical illness that meets our policy definitions. We 
only cover the critical illnesses we define in our policy provisions.
The cash sum (benefit amount) can be level or decreasing over the benefit term.
I think its reasonable to have expected Mr R to have read this along with the rest of the 
documentation he wouldve received at the time. Had he done so, he ought to have become 
aware that he hadnt taken out an income protection policy. And he couldve likewise raised 
this at the time with Lloyds if this wasnt what he was expecting.
Lloyds have pointed out that Mr Rs life and critical illness assurance policy did include 
premium protection. This meant, if Mr R was unable to work due to accident or sickness, 
they would pay the monthly premium for the policy. Its possible therefore that Mr R may 
have misunderstood this benefit of the policy with an income protection product, like the 
Essential Earnings Cover he declined. But, if that was the case, I dont think I can fairly hold 
Lloyds responsible for that as I think their financial report and the product literature clearly 
explained what Mr R had taken. 
Although Mr R says he was led to believe the policy would provide an income if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness, Ive seen no evidence to support this happened. 
Mr R has however also said he was told it would cover his funeral costs. As the policy he 
took out included life cover this meant that, in the event of his passing during the cover 
period, the sum assured wouldve been paid to his estate and so it couldve been used towards 
funeral costs. It follows that if Mr R was informed by the adviser the policy could cover 
funeral costs, then I dont think he was mis-led in this respect.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman