DRN-3032780
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Swinton Group Ltd wasnt clear enough about how insurers 
charge for mileage, and failed to clearly explain that he may have to declare a motor 
conviction for five years. 
What happened
Mr O bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Swinton. At renewal in December 2019 
he told it about a motor conviction and he increased his annual mileage as hed travelled 
more than the listed mileage the year before. As a result, the premium Swinton quoted Mr O 
increased by £100. 
Mr O wanted a breakdown of the increase. Swinton told him it was in part due to the 
conviction and the increase in mileage. He was unhappy that Swinton told him hed need to 
declare the motor conviction for five years. He thought it should have been clearer about this 
in its Statement of Fact. 
Mr O says that due to the pandemic during 2020, his actual mileage was a lot less. So when 
it came to renewal in December 2020, he asked for a backdated reduction in the premium 
hed paid for the previous year. But Swinton said a refund wasnt available. 
Mr O complained to Swinton  but it didnt uphold his complaint. So he asked us to look at 
things for him. Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She 
thought Swinton hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr O didnt agree. In summary he doesnt think its unreasonable for insurers and Swinton to 
provide tables of what they charge for risk. He doesnt believe the process is transparent. He 
didnt appreciate the cost he might pay in future premiums as a result of the motoring 
conviction. Mr O says hes spent considerable time explaining his complaint and he doesnt 
feel its being properly considered. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A customer is free to choose from the insurance market the right and best value for money 
product that most suits their needs. The role of Swinton as a broker is to arrange cover for 
Mr O with an insurer. Insurers have different appetites for risk which is determined by their 
underwriting criteria. And that risk can change depending on any number of factors that 
matter to that insurer at the time.
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive information  and so Mr O is right 
in that this isnt available to customers. But we cannot interfere with a businesss commercial 
decision as to what risk it wants to take on. The market for car insurance for the majority of 
customers is wide  and we can see the different risk insurers apply when we look for quotes 
on comparison websites using the same information. This can produce a long list of insurers 
providing widely varying prices for the same circumstances. So its not for Swinton  or any 
broker - to be able to provide a table of what different insurers charge for different risks. 
In relation to the Statement of Fact provided by Swinton  this is a statement of the facts Mr 
O gave when answering questions for the panel of insurers Swinton deals with wants to 
know when deciding the premium it offers. 
One of the questions Swinton asked Mr O was if he had any motor convictions in the past 
five years. A persons driving history is one of many factors an insurer will take into account 
when offering cover  and the price its prepared to provide cover for can depend on how 
recent or how many convictions or incidents occurred. Some insurers take into account a 
driving history over the past three years, some over five years. I dont think Swintons 
request for this information from Mr O is unreasonable in its role as a broker arranging cover.
I think Swinton explained why it couldnt provide a table of how and what insurers charge. 
And it contacted the insurer to answer Mr Os question about what would happen if he made 
a claim and had travelled over the mileage limit on the policy. 
I know Mr O feels strongly about his complaint and isnt satisfied with the information 
provided by Swinton or our investigator. So I appreciate he will be disappointed with my 
decision as it is along the same lines. But having considered his complaint, I dont think 
Swinton has acted unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman