DRN-3391446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim Mrs B made on their DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited policy. 
What happened
Mrs B made a claim on her and Mr Bs legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a 
claim against Trustees of a Trust set up for Mrs Bs benefit and that of her children pursuant 
to a Will. Mrs B said the Trustees were not managing the Trust properly and were charging 
her for their services. 
After the claim was made, DAS questioned whether Mrs B had cover in place for the 
appropriate claim period. Mrs B provided details of her policies and DAS accepted cover was 
in place. But it rejected the claim under the terms of cover. It said there wasnt an insured 
event under the contract section of the policy because the dispute Mrs B was claiming for 
didnt amount to an agreement she entered into in her personal capacity for buying or hiring 
goods and services or selling goods. It also said the policy excluded any contract claims 
arising out of an investment. But it offered Mrs B £100 and an apology for failing to handle 
her claim proactively by making more regular contact with her which wouldve avoided the 
need for her to chase them. 
Mrs B thought the claim shed made was covered because the claim did arise out of a 
contract. In particular, she said the contract was the Will that left her the funds to her and her 
children that were put into a Trust. She said that as the person who left the Will cant be a 
party to that contract anymore the Trust now represents the contract between her and the 
Trustees. She feels this is evidenced by the fact that she pays their fees from the proceeds 
she receives from the Trust. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld as DAS had applied the terms of the policy fairly and the amount of compensation 
they offered was fair. Mrs B doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover:
CONTRACT DISPUTES
A dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which you have entered into 
in a personal capacity for
(a) buying or hiring in goods or services
(b) selling goods
The policy also excludes: a dispute arising from any loan, mortgage, pension, investment or 
borrowing.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about the Will being the contract and that the Trust now 
represents the contract between her and the Trustees, but I dont think thats right. 
In order for there to be cover, Mrs B needed to enter into a contract in her personal capacity. 
She didnt enter into a contract in her personal capacity when the Will was created. Rather 
she was a beneficiary of part of the estate left under it. The Will directed that a Trust be set 
up for Mrs Bs benefit and that of her children. But the Trust itself doesnt represent a 
contract made in Mrs Bs personal capacity for services from the Trustees. Rather she is the 
beneficiary of that Trust which is a very different proposition in law to a straightforward 
personal contract envisaged by the policy terms. 
Its right that Mrs B is entitled in law to challenge the actions of the Trustees, but thats as a 
beneficiary to the Trust and not a party to a personal contract. And even if it could be said 
that there was some sort of personal contract between Mrs B and the Trustees -which I dont 
think is correct- the claim would still be excluded because it relates to an investment. Thats 
because the proceeds of the estate were invested as part of the Trust. Because of this, I 
dont think DAS acted unfairly by turning down Mrs Bs claim.
Ive also considered whether the offer of compensation is adequate in the circumstances. 
DAS offered £100 because Mrs B had to chase them for a response on the occasions she 
was in touch with them. I agree this would have been frustrating for her and that this figure 
represents the trouble and upset caused. I wont however be recommending DAS pay 
anything more as I dont think their actions wouldve led to a different outcome for Mrs B or 
made her do anything differently. Indeed, I can see that she instructed solicitors to bring a 
claim on her behalf against the Trustees, which is being funded independently of her legal 
expenses insurance. Because I think DAS acted fairly when turning down her claim, I think 
she would have done this regardless. If Mrs B hasnt already accepted payment of the 
compensation offered, she can contact DAS directly to receive payment of it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman