DRN-1316433
 
The complaint
Miss C on behalf of company D complains that Barclays Bank Plc will not reimburse £8804, 
the value of chargebacks applied to their account. The complaint is brought by Miss C, a 
director of the company.
What happened
Miss C says in May 2019 three customers came into the store. A first transaction was 
attempted using a debit card but the card was declined. The customers said this was 
because they had come from abroad and their card information needed to be entered 
manually. They then made a further 6 purchases by card  with the card information being 
entered manually. One was declined but the others went through and the customers signed 
the receipts.  The value of the goods bought was £8,804.79.
Shortly after, Barclays received chargeback claims for the 5 transactions that had gone 
through. Barclays said Miss C hadnt followed the correct procedure for taking card 
payments and for that reason, it couldn't show the card holder and card had been present at 
the point of sale or defend the claims. It considered Miss C and D were responsible for 
covering the refunds. 
Miss C said Barclays hadnt told D that verification vouchers were required when the chip 
and pin system wouldnt work or provided them with the necessary vouchers. In the 
circumstances, she felt Barclays was responsible for any mistakes in the process. She said 
she'd got the customers to sign the receipts to show they were present and she didnt agree 
she and D should be held responsible for the losses.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she could sympathise with Miss Cs 
situation, shed seen Barclays Merchant Processing Guide that set out how to process card 
payments both when chip and pin was available and when it wasn't.  Miss C hadnt followed 
this but instead had entered the card information manually without any attempt to swipe the 
card or to use chip and pin.  For that reason she couldn't agree Barclays had acted unfairly 
in allowing the chargeback claims.
Miss C remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no clear information on any particular point or the information available is 
disputed, Ive looked at whats more likely than not to have happened and made my decision 
on the balance of probabilities.
Miss C's provided a very clear explanation as to why chip and pin wasnt available for these 
transactions and why she had to key in the information manually instead. However Ive also seen the Merchant Processing Guide that Miss C and D would have been 
sent when  D signed up with Barclays. This sets out the process to be used when dealing 
with card present payments, as was the case here. In summary it says that where the card 
has an electronic chip then the first option is to use chip and pin. If a pin request is not 
generated for some reason, then the customer can be asked to sign the receipt after swiping 
the magnetic strip on the card. Authorisation for each transaction must be obtained either 
through the terminal or by phone.
Only if both options arent available for technical reasons should the business key in the card 
information manually. But if it does need to do this then it must use the manual imprint 
machine and vouchers supplied and obtain authorisation. The Guide is very clear that the 
failure to follow the correct process may make it difficult to resist any chargeback claims 
later.
In this case the first transaction was attempted with chip and pin. It was declined but the fact 
an attempt was made suggests the cards were chip and pin cards and should have been 
processed on that basis. 
However in the next 6 transactions Miss C didn't use the terminal but instead keyed in 
the card information manually. It doesnt appear there was any attempt to use chip and pin 
with these two cards or to swipe them. And I can see that Miss C didnt use the manual 
imprinter or the verification vouchers required for the key entered transactions or obtain 
authorisation for the sales.
I appreciate Miss C may have been in a difficult position when the first card was declined. 
Understandably she wanted to complete the sales which amounted to more than £8,000 and 
represented a significant sale for D. 
But the process in the Guide is designed to protect the merchant and the consumer. By not 
following the Guide, D wasn't able to show that the card and card holder had been present 
for these sales or that the transactions were authorised. For that reason Barclays has said 
it's not in a position to defend the chargeback claims and while I can understand the impact 
of the losses on D, I cant say thats unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ive seen Miss C feels Barclays could have done more to make her and D aware of the 
correct process, as well as ensuring they had the necessary vouchers. But D would have 
been provided with the Guide and equipment when it joined Barclays scheme so Miss C and 
D should have been aware of this at that time and I can't agree Barclays is responsible for 
this.
I realise this isnt the answer Miss C and  D were hoping for. I appreciate that the financial 
loss to the company is substantial, however for the reasons given above, I dont consider 
Barclays has acted unfairly so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2September2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman