DRN-3957605
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy as she believes that Succession Wealth Management Ltd (SWM) is 
responsible for a transfer from a defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme not 
being processed before the expiry of the transfer quotation provided by the scheme trustees. 
As a result, a new transfer quotation was required, which was significantly lower than the 
previous quote. Mrs A says SWM has caused her to incur this loss and should compensate 
her for this.
What happened
Mrs A approached SWM as she was considering transferring benefits shed accrued in a DB 
pension, from a period of previous employment.
In September 2021, SWM met with Mrs A and her husband to gather information about their 
circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. While the advice was to focus on the potential 
transfer of one policy, in Mrs As name, to decide if a transfer was suitable, SWM had to 
consider their circumstances as a whole. So, it sought to gather information about all of 
Mrs and Mr As pensions. And, with their authority, it wrote out to the relevant providers. 
On 8 December 2021, the trustees of the DB scheme that Mrs A was considering 
transferring provided a transfer quotation. This gave the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of Mrs As DB scheme benefits, which was £501,188.45. This quote was valid until 
8 March 2022.
SWM says it had not received up to date policy information from the other pension providers. 
This was chased and SWM says the last information was received on 13 January 2022.
SWMs adviser analysed the information provided by the pension providers and considered 
Mrs As objectives. On 25 January 2022, the adviser concluded the transfer was suitable. 
Ive been provided evidence that this conclusion and the rationale for it were referred for an 
internal review and authorisation within SWM on the same day.
A terms of engagement document was sent to Mrs A at the same time. This outlined the 
service that SWM would be providing, advising on a potential DB transfer, and set out the 
agreed fees. This letter included a section called Service Delivery. This said:
Our aim is to progress your work as quickly as circumstances allow, and we expect to 
communicate with you regularly to keep you appraised of how matters are progressing. We 
aim to issue our recommendations in the form of a report within 12 weeks of receipt of this 
signed document, subject to our being in possession of all information required.
The pace with which a matter can progress will depend not only upon timely instructions 
from you and a prompt response from ourselves, but also upon a degree of co-operation 
from the third parties with which we are dealing. Accordingly, unless we have specifically 
agreed to the contrary in writing, we do not accept any liability arising from failure to meet 
any target date(s), in particular the deadline set by the Scheme Trustees for the Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value remaining valid, or complete any part of your work within the 
proposed timescales, unless the failure is directly and exclusively caused by unreasonable 
delays on our part in providing our services.
Mrs A signed this agreement and returned a copy to SWM.
SWM set out its recommendation to Mrs A in a suitability report dated 1 March 2022. This 
said SWM recommended that she transfer her benefits from her DB scheme to a 
Succession SIPP and invest the funds in a specific portfolio. This was because SWM 
thought the transfer best allowed Mrs A to meet her stated objectives. The report reiterated 
that the CETV the trustees had previously provided was only valid until 8 March 2022 and, if 
the application to transfer wasnt completed in time, a new quotation may be required, which 
could go up or down.
Mrs A wished to proceed with the transfer. A meeting was arranged for 4 March 2022. At 
that meeting the relevant application forms were signed by Mrs A. This included an 
application form for the Succession SIPP. This explained that a separate business, which 
Ill call Firm I, was the trustee and scheme administrator of the Succession SIPP. It said the 
pension scheme underlying the SIPP was Firm Is personal pension scheme and the 
application was to Firm I for membership of the SIPP.  The declaration also included 
confirmation that Mrs A wished to open an account with Firm I. 
SWM sent the completed documents to Firm I on the same day, 4 March 2022, via email. 
And the email explained the impending deadline of 8 March 2022, from the original transfer 
quotation. And it says it also sent the relevant documents it had to the DB scheme 
administrators. 
SWM says Firm I copied it into an email on 7 March 2022, where documents were sent to 
the DB scheme. But it turned out one of the documents had not been completed in full. SWM 
says the DB scheme was notified of this and the corrected form was provided by Firm I 
shortly after the deadline. But the DB scheme would not honour the transfer quotation as the 
deadline had been missed.
As a result, a new transfer quotation was required. This was provided by the DB scheme 
trustees, but the CETV was now quoted as £453,593.10. I understand Mrs A was not willing 
to accept this new quotation and hasnt proceeded with the transfer. 
Mrs A complained to SWM about the transfer not being completed before the deadline and 
the fall in the CETV shed been quoted.
SWM didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said it didnt believe it had caused any delays noting 
it was initially waiting for information to complete its analysis and that it then provided advice 
within a reasonable timescale and quicker than its usual expected turnaround time. It also 
said it had sent the relevant forms to the parties before the expiry of the transfer quotation. 
So, it didnt think it had made an error while also noting that, although the CETV had 
reduced, Mrs A had not incurred a loss as she still held her DB scheme benefits in full.
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as she thought SWM hadnt caused any 
unreasonable delays.
Mrs A did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She 
thought SWM hadnt left enough time for the application to be progressed when it gave its 
advice. And she said she didnt engage Firm I to carry out anything on her behalf and felt 
SWM had initiated this, making SWM responsible for any delays.As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by saying that Im only considering the actions of SWM here and whether it has done 
anything wrong. Mrs A says she believes that SWM appointed Firm I and so is also 
responsible for its actions. But I dont agree. 
Firm I is the trustee and scheme administrator of the SIPP that SWM recommended to 
Mrs A. I can understand why there was some confusion as the SIPP is branded as 
Succession. But Im satisfied that Firm I is a separate and distinct entity to SWM and that 
SWM is not responsible for its actions. And Im also satisfied that Mrs A applied to Firm I, to 
open an account with it, as the declaration in the SIPP application explained.
SWM was asked to give advice on a potential transfer from a pension that contained 
safeguarded benefits. So, it had to assess if that was suitable for Mrs A. There are a number 
of rules, regulations and requirements that it needed to consider to do that. Not least the 
provisions the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set that deal with making a 
personal recommendation and a set of provisions that specifically deal with DB pension 
transfers. These state that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. And SWM should only recommend a transfer if it could demonstrate, based on 
evidence, that it was in Mrs As best interests. 
So, advising on a potential DB transfer is not straightforward. And indeed, SWMs terms of 
engagement, agreed with Mrs A, make clear that this process can take time  referring to its 
aim of issuing a report within 12 weeks of the terms being agreed. Which didnt happen here 
until the end of January 2022.
Because of everything SWM was required to consider and demonstrate, in my view, it is 
reasonable that SWM would need to gather extensive information about Mrs As 
circumstances, in order to consider if a transfer was in her best interests. The FCA also 
required SWM to carry out calculations and analysis comparing the benefits of the proposed 
new scheme with those the existing DB scheme provided and compare the transfer value 
with the estimated cost of replacing the DB scheme benefits. And its advice would then need 
to be carefully considered before it was provided. 
SWMs terms also noted because of the requirements of it, it couldnt accept responsibility if 
a transfer was not completed by a target date, unless it caused unreasonable delays. Which 
again Mrs A agreed to and I dont think is unreasonable. So, Ive thought about whether 
SWM caused any unreasonable delays.
The DB scheme provided a transfer quotation on 8 December 2022, which was guaranteed 
until 8 March 2022. But in order to advise on whether a transfer was in Mrs As best 
interests, SWM had also already asked providers of her and Mr As other pensions for up to 
date policy information. That information wasnt received in full until 13 January 2022. SWM 
was reliant on third parties providing that information. And I dont think I can reasonably hold 
it responsible for that information not being provided sooner. 
Asking for that information was also in my view reasonable as one of the things the FCA 
suggests should be considered to potentially demonstrate a transfer is suitable is a clients 
retirement income needs, how those can be achieved and the role the safeguarded benefits 
are likely to play. Knowing what other provisions were available and how these might address Mrs As income needs in retirement was therefore something SWM needed to 
consider.
After this information was received the adviser then needed to consider all of this, as well as 
what Mrs and Mr A had told SWM about their personal circumstances and their objectives,  
the relevant transfer analysis that the regulator required SWM to conduct, and reach an 
opinion on whether a transfer was in Mrs As best interests. This again was something that I 
think would reasonably take some time to think about. SWM has shown that the adviser 
reached an initial conclusion on 25 January 2022  and the detail of the notes from that point 
support that an in-depth analysis had taken place. Again, I dont think the period of time 
taken for this to happen, from 13 January 2022 when the last of the information was received 
from third parties, was unreasonable.
SWM has said that its process is the advice is then referred for a compliance review and that 
this process generally takes around six weeks. The internal processes SWM choose to 
employ are a matter of its commercial discretion. But the FCA does require advice about the 
transfer of a DB scheme pension to be given or checked by a pension transfer specialist. 
The FCA guidance also says SWM should ensure that the pension transfer specialist checks 
the entirety and completeness of the advice. And given the starting assumption for DB 
transfer advice and the requirements of SWM when giving such advice, I again think it is 
reasonable that this could require time to consider.
Here the advice was checked and the full written summary of advice was produced by 
1 March 2022  within the six week timeframe  even though SWMs notes indicate that the 
reviewer required more information during the checking process. And the advice was 
provided before the expiry of the CETV, which SWM had not committed to achieving, and 
well within twelve weeks of the terms of engagement having been signed.
Taking everything into account, I dont think SWM has caused any unnecessary delays 
during the advice process.
Mrs A has said that SWM left it too close to the expiry of the CETV for the application to be 
realistically progressed, particularly as it wouldve been aware from past experience of 
Firm Is usual turnaround times. But again, SWM did not commit to the advice being 
concluded before the CETV expired. And yet it did achieve this and issued the forms to the 
relevant parties before the CETV expired  which appear to have been completed correctly 
by SWM. And the information SWM says was received from Firm I, it was copied into an 
email from Firm I to the trustees of the DB scheme prior to the deadline, indicates that 
despite there being a short turnaround time, completion of the application in time was still 
possible. And in any event, as I dont think SWM has caused unreasonable delays, I cant 
fairly hold it responsible for the application not reaching the sufficient point before the quote 
expired.Mrs A is understandably upset that the CETV has been recalculated and reduced. And she 
is unhappy at incurring this loss. But the CETV is not the same as a fund value of an 
investment linked pension. An investment linked pensions value rises and falls based on the 
investments held and their performance. The benefits in a DB scheme do not have an 
investment linked value though  as the underlying benefits are guaranteed. The CETV is a 
value determined by actuarial principles, taking into account factors including personal 
circumstances of the pension holder, contributions to the pension and market factors and 
requiring assumptions to be made about how future events might influence the members 
benefits. It is generally based on the providers best estimate of the expected cost of 
providing the guaranteed benefits. So, a fall in this is not a reduction in benefit value. And 
here Mrs A has retained the benefits under the DB scheme and still has access to them. So, 
while the CETV the trustees have offered her has fallen, she hasnt incurred a loss of 
pension benefits here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman