DRN-4123448
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Volvo Car UK Limited (VCUK) applied when he returned 
a car after he ended his hire agreement early.
What happened
Mr S entered into a 60-month hire agreement in February 2021, but he ended the agreement 
early. VCUK invoiced him for damage to the car when he returned it, but Mr S says a third 
party is responsible for the damage; it recovered his car for repairs in December 2021 and 
then lost the car. When the car was returned it was damaged in multiple places. Mr S told 
us:
he signed a five-year hire agreement in February 2021, but in December 2021, 
following a puncture, a third party collected the car and took it away for repair;
the third party lost the car, and when it was recovered two weeks later it had been 
left unlocked, and he learned that the car keys had been found on one of the wheels;
when the car was finally returned to Mr S, he contacted VCUK to tell it about some 
damage and he sent it photographic evidence of this;
in October 2022, he told VCUK he wanted to hand the car back and he gave it three 
months notice;
the car was collected in January 2023 by a third-party collection agent and following 
its inspection, he received an invoice for £967.62 for damages;
the damage was caused by the third party  or its actions - that collected the car in 
December 2021, and he wouldve taken more photographs if hed known hed be 
charged for this damage when he handed the car back;
hes unhappy with the service hes received from VCUK including the fact it hasnt 
been able to access call recordings of its conversations with him in January 2022, 
and that its chasing him for payment of the outstanding balance when it said it 
wouldnt do until its investigation into his complaint was complete.
VCUK rejected Mr S complaint about the end of contract charges. It said under the terms of 
his agreement, Mr S needed to return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and 
tear. And it explained that it had made him aware on several occasions that the car would be 
inspected and assessed against the BVRLA Wear and Tear guidelines. It said the 
handover checklist that had been given to Mr S just before he took delivery of the car 
explained about the wear and tear standards. And prior to this, before hed confirmed his 
order for the car, he wouldve been given a link by the sales team to its FAQ page which 
provided details of the BVRLA guide.
VCUK told this Service that it contacted Mr S in November 2022 to confirm the process for 
returning the car. This email confirmed the expected return date  30 January 2023  and 
other relevant information, including details of the BVRLA Wear and Tear guide. VCUK says 
it contacted Mr S again just a week before the collection date and it again confirmed 
information about the returns process, including the BVRLA Wear and Tear guide.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
and identified issues in a number of areas:
1. Front alloy L  scuffed £65.00
2. Front alloy R  scuffed £65.00
3. Rear alloy L  scuffed £65.00
4. Rear alloy R  scuffed £65.00
5. Front tyre L  cut £215.91
6. Front bumper  preparation marks £95.00
7. Rear door L  dent £190.00
8. Rear door moulding  scuffed £45.00
9. Quarter panel arch L  scuffed £45.00
10. Quarter panel R  dent £48.00
11. Front door R  dent £48.00
VCUK said that Mr S had only provided photographic evidence in respect of one specific 
area of damage when he contacted it in January 2022, and its call notes only made 
reference to the damage to the rear bumper. So, it had removed this charge from the 
damages invoice, along with two other charges; a charging cable that hadnt been provided 
when Mr S first took delivery of the car; and a charge in relation to a service fee.
VCUK said it had apologised to Mr S that the car returns process had not gone as smoothly 
as it shouldve done, and it recognised this wouldve caused him some inconvenience. It said 
it had given him a £100 credit note, and this had been deducted from his closing balance.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that this Service would only be looking at Mr S complaint about VCUK and 
whether the charges it applied were fair; she wouldnt be looking at the actions of any third 
party. If Mr S remained unhappy with the actions of any third party, then he would need to 
raise a complaint with them.
She explained that businesses arent required to keep telephone recordings for very long, 
and it was unfortunate that none were available in this particular case. She did confirm, 
however, that shed had sight of the contact notes between VCUK and Mr S.
She explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the 
British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide 
whether the charges applied by VCUK were fair and reasonable. She said she was satisfied 
that Mr S had been told on a number of occasions that, upon its return, the car would be 
inspected against the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. And although shed considered 
what Mr S had said, there simply wasnt enough evidence to persuade her that either the 
damages had been caused by the third party more than a year earlier, or that it was unfair 
for VCUK to charge him for the damages.
Our investigator said shed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that 
there was sufficient evidence to show that the damages identified exceed BVRLA fair wear 
and tear guidance, and that the charges had been applied fairly  it simply wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask VCUK to do anything else.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says VCUK lied when it said it 
would listen to its call recordings, and that no matter how many times hes asked, no one at 
VCUK has listened to them.
Our investigator explained that she could only base her opinion on the evidence and information thats available to her. And she suggested that VCUK may have said it would 
listen to call recordings unaware at that time that, as they were more than 12 months old, 
they would no longer be available. But she said she had reviewed the call notes, and the 
only damage Mr S had referenced when the car was returned to him was the damaged rear 
bumper  he subsequently supplied photo evidence of this  so it was fair that VCUK had 
removed this charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I
consider to be the crux of his complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr S should note,
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Firstly, I understand why Mr S wants to see an improvement in VCUKs processes for the
inspection and return of its cars. But that isnt the role of this Service, and my role isnt to
punish businesses for their performance or behaviour, thats the role of the regulator.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if the 
business, in this case VCUK, has done anything wrong. If it has, I seek to put the consumer 
 Mr S  back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation if I think its appropriate.
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr S and VCUK afresh, Ive
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Mr S say 'You must pay for any loss 
or theft of or damage to, the car after you have received it.. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was 
responsible for returning the car in good condition. Ive also seen copies of several 
documents sent to Mr S that reference that the cars condition would be assessed against 
the guidelines issued by BVRLA. The first of which was the Handover Protocol which I note 
that Mr S signed. So, the question for me to consider is whether all the charges applied by 
VCUK are fair and reasonable. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for VCUK to charge Mr S. 
VCUK claims there are 11 areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear: 
1. Front alloy L  scuffed £65.00
2. Front alloy R  scuffed £65.00
3. Rear alloy L  scuffed £65.00
4. Rear alloy R  scuffed £65.00
5. Front tyre L  cut £215.91
6. Front bumper  preparation marks £95.00
7. Rear door L  dent £190.00
8. Rear door moulding  scuffed £45.00
9. Quarter panel arch L  scuffed £45.00
10. Quarter panel R  dent £48.0011. Front door R  dent £48.00
I havent seen any submissions from Mr S to say that he disputes the damage is present, 
only that he shouldnt have to pay for it. But nonetheless, Ive first considered whether Ive 
seen sufficient evidence of the damage.
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA guidance says Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim 
and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel facia or hub of 
the wheel alloy is not acceptable. 
Ive looked carefully at all seven photographs provided by VCUK, and Im satisfied that the 
scuffing on each is greater than the allowed level. Accordingly, Im satisfied these four 
charges are fair.
Front tyre
The BVRLA guidance says, There must be no damage to side walls or tread or any 
cracking.
The two photographs clearly evidence damage to the side wall of the front left tyre. Im 
therefore satisfied that this charge is fair.
Front bumper
The BVRLA guidance says that any Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, 
preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not 
acceptable.
Ive looked carefully at all five photographs, and Im satisfied that the damage is present and 
its therefore fair for VCUK to make this charge.
Rear door, Front Door and Quarter Panel
The BVRLA guidance says, Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
The photographic evidence for all three of these areas of the car shows clear evidence of 
dents that exceed the 15mm allowance. Accordingly, Im satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable for VCUK to apply these three charges.
Rear door moulding and Quarter panel arch
The BVRLA guidance says, Scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable, provided 
the moulding or trim is not broken, cracked or deformed.
The photographic evidence for both of these areas of the car shows clear evidence of 
scuffing that exceeds the 25mm allowance. Accordingly, Im satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable for VCUK to apply these two charges.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges VCUK asked Mr S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance.Finally, Ive considered if theres any other reason it wouldnt be fair for VCUK to ask Mr S to 
pay these charges. Ive considered carefully what Mr S said about the damage being caused 
by the third party when the car was first collected for repair. But Ive also taken into account 
what VCUK told us that Mr S said when he contacted it. 
Where two parties dont agree on what happened, my role is to look at the available 
evidence and weigh up what I think, on balance, is more likely to have happened. Its 
disappointing that the call recordings are no longer available, but I have been able to look at 
the account contact notes.
These notes confirm that Mr S did speak with VCUK about damage to the car, caused by the 
third party. But the note suggests he only mentioned damage to the rear bumper, and thats 
the only photographic evidence he seems to have supplied.
Taking everything into account, there simply isnt sufficient evidence to persuade me that 
further damage was caused at this time and that, as a consequence, VCUK should remove 
further charges from its invoice.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman