DRN-3451588
The complaint
Mr G has complained about repairs carried out to his car when he made a claim under his 
car insurance policy to U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Gs car was damaged in an incident and his insurer UKI arranged for his 
car to be repaired at an approved repairer (AR).
Mr G was unhappy with the repairs and so UKI agreed for his car to be returned to the AR 
for rectification repairs. 
Mr G remained unhappy with the original issues after his car was returned to him a second 
time. He said he found new damage to his car. He also complained about the service he 
received and the way some calls were handled.
UKI arranged for an engineer to review photo and video footage provided by Mr G and the 
AR. The engineer didnt agree the original issues  or the new issues Mr G raised  were 
caused by the AR. 
UKI responded to Mr Gs concerns in October and November 2021. It upheld some of Mr Gs 
complaints about the service he received. It didnt agree further repairs were required to Mr 
Gs car. It said the repairs had been carried out effectively and any new issues were already 
there before the AR took his car. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He told us he felt UKI had 
racially discriminated against him and this was why it hadnt upheld all of his complaints. 
Our Investigator said he didnt find anything to suggest UKIs actions were motivated by Mr 
Gs race, but he found UKI had been responsible for some poor service. 
The Investigator felt that it wasnt in dispute that it was difficult for the engineer and Mr G to 
evidence the extent of the claimed damage with photos and video footage. He thought a 
fairer outcome was for UKI to have arranged a physical inspection of Mr Gs car. 
So he recommended UKI arrange this. And for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
UKIs decision to have an engineer carry out a desktop review instead  he recommended 
UKI pay Mr G £100 in addition to the £200 compensation it had already paid for its poor 
service. 
Mr G has acknowledged receipt of the Investigators view. UKI didnt agree. In summary it 
says the reason why it didnt arrange a physical inspection of Mr Gs car in October 2021 
was due to Covid restrictions. It says it asked Mr G to provide evidence to show the damage 
but he didnt reply to calls and emails. So it doesnt feel it reasonable to arrange a physical 
inspection when Mr G didnt respond to its requests for information. 
So as UKI didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment on whether Mr G was discriminated against as thats outside this services 
remit and only a court of law can make a finding like that. However, I can consider whether I 
think UKI has treated Mr G fairly and reasonably. In this instance, I havent seen anything to 
show that UKIs service failings were motivated by racial bias.
Mr Gs car suffered damage to the front bumper, wing, and driver side (front and rear). I 
dont intend to repeat all of the issues Mr G raised in my decision as some were resolved. 
Ive focused on the outstanding issues which Mr G says are unresolved. 
On the first return of Mr Gs car, he said he found that the petrol cap was misaligned and 
there was a difference in the roof paintwork where tape had been put to respray the driver 
side of his car. He said the new paint didnt match the existing paint on his car. The AR 
agreed to carry out rectification repairs and said they buffered the paintwork. 
When Mr Gs car was returned to him for second time, he complained that the petrol cap 
was still misaligned and the roof issue with the paintwork was still visible. He said there was 
now a scratch on the roof, chips to a pillar and there was a 1cm gap on the windscreen sill. 
Mr G didnt want his car returned to the AR for a third time. 
To resolve Mr Gs complaint, UKI arranged for an engineer to carry out a desktop inspection. 
So the engineer relied on photos and video footage provided by the AR and Mr G. 
Ive looked at the transcript of the discussion between the engineer and Mr G where the 
engineer didnt agree the damage had been caused by the AR. Mr G said he felt his 
evidence made it clear about the damage he was claiming for. The engineer said from the 
footage, it showed the damage was either there before or there wasnt an issue with the 
repairs. At one point Mr G said it was obvious from the video footage that there was a 
difference in colour following the respray of the side of his car. The engineer said he couldnt 
see a difference from the video evidence but; maybe if he came out (to view the car) it 
would be different. 
Like the Investigator, I cannot tell from the evidence available that the damage as the 
engineer says was visible before Mr Gs car was taken to the AR  or that the rectification 
repairs have been carried out to a good standard. I cant see that the engineer made any 
contact with the AR to ask about the scratch Mr G said was on the roof after his car was 
returned to him a second time. 
UKI says the reason why it didnt arrange a physical inspection in October 2021 was due to 
Covid restrictions at the time. However, there is no reference to this being the reason in 
UKIs notes. And I think  given the nature of the dispute and that there was some 
uncertainty around whether the engineer could view some of the alleged damage  I think 
the next reasonable step to have taken was for a physical inspection of Mr Gs car  taking 
the appropriate safety measures at the time  so that UKI could have properly and fairly 
investigated Mr Gs concerns. Ive also kept in mind the fact that UKI upheld Mr Gs 
complaint that rectification repairs were required to the roof and the petrol misalignment from 
the first set of repairs  before the engineer gave a view that none of the issues Mr G raised 
were justified. 
Mr G has explained that he is a full time carer for his mother and he had to take considerable 
time discussing his concerns with UKI and providing evidence to support his complaint which 
remains unresolved. So I think UKI should pay Mr G a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its decision not to have Mr Gs car physically 
inspected by an engineer. I think UKI should arrange for an engineer to physically inspect Mr 
Gs car and report on the outstanding issues. 
Therefore Im upholding Mr Gs complaint and my recommendations are set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Arrange for an engineer to carry out a physical inspection of Mr Gs car and 
investigate and report on the outstanding issues following repairs and 
rectification repairs. 
Pay Mr G £100 compensation in addition to the compensation its already 
paid for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman