DRN-3031877
The complaint
Mr E complained that TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E took out a single loan from TM Advances in August 2020. He borrowed £1,500 and he 
agreed to pay the loan by making 30 monthly instalments of £159.
With interest added on, the total cost of this loan was £4,770. 
The loan is currently outstanding and I understand that Mr E is making repayments under a 
payment arrangement set up with the help of a debt charity. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TM Advances. 
In summary, Mr E complained that it should have been obvious to TM Advances from the 
pattern of spending apparent from looking at his bank statements and credit report that the 
loan was unaffordable for him.   
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She thought that information TM 
Advances gathered about Mr Es financial situation, which included looking at some recent 
bank statements and obtaining a credit report, showed that Mr E wasnt in a position to be 
able to sustainably repay this loan. Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what 
TM Advances needed to do to put things right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said it carried out an appropriate 
assessment and given that Mr E had entered into Debt Management and offered to pay 
more than his contractual repayment amount this suggested the loan was affordable for him. 
TM Advances asked an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TM 
Advances relied on when it decided to lend to Mr E. 
TM Advances asked Mr E about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TM Advances 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr E. 
TM Advances recorded Mr Es income as £2,150 per month. When looking at what he could 
afford, TM Advances included an amount for his board and other main living costs and 
allowed for Mr E spending £145 on other unsecured credit. Overall, TM Advances calculated 
Mr E shouldve had around £562 available to spend after paying for everything he was 
spending his money on.
So TM Advances felt the loan repayment of £159 for this loan looked like it should be 
comfortably affordable for Mr E. 
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think that TM Advances properly took into account the 
information it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out and in the bank statements it 
acquired when thinking about whether Mr E would be able to repay this loan in a way that 
was sustainable over the loan term. 
TM Advances could see from its credit check that Mr Es credit card was more or less at the 
£200 credit limit set for the card which meant that Mr E was using 98% of his available 
running credit. 
As well as this, TM Advances could see information that showed not only that Mr E had an 
established record of taking out loans with short term lenders but he also had a history of 
defaulted accounts  including during the twelve months period running up to him taking out 
this loan. 
So I think TM Advances was able to see that it looked like Mr E was struggling to manage 
his money and he had become stuck in a cycle of debt that meant he was reliant on taking 
out new credit to repay existing credit debts   and that there were clear signs that he had 
lost control of his financial situation.Our adjudicator carried out a detailed review of the information shown on the bank 
statements TM Advances obtained from Mr E and she concluded that Mr E was spending 
significantly more money than he was earning. 
It also looked like Mr E was receiving regular payments from family or friends  - potentially 
suggesting that they might have been providing financial assistance to Mr E to help with his 
money problems. 
Our adjudicator calculated that during June and July 2020 Mr E paid almost £900 to lenders 
for debt repayments alone and that Mr E was spending thousands of pounds more than he 
was earning.
TM Advances hasnt disputed this and the figures our adjudicator relied on seem about right 
to me. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr E was already in serious 
financial difficulty. 
TM Advances should have realised that the information it had gathered was seriously at 
odds with the figures it had relied on when assessing whether Mr E had sufficient disposable 
income to pay for the loan  and that it couldnt rely on its affordability calculations. 
TM Advances could see from the credit checks it carried out that Mr E was using credit in a 
way that suggests to me that his finances were unstable and he was at a point where his 
debt looked like it would become unmanageable  if indeed he hadnt already reached that 
point.
Bearing in mind the stated loan purpose, TM Advances was aware of the likelihood that its 
loan would add to Mr Es overall indebtedness  making his financial difficulties worse. 
I think TM Advances shouldve realised that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr E  and so, based on the information it could see, TM Advances shouldnt 
have lent to him. 
I appreciate that Mr E may have later on offered to pay more than the amount of his 
contractual monthly repayments as part of a structured payment arrangement. But it doesnt 
follow that this must mean that the loan TM Advances provided was sustainable for him. 
Mr E has taken responsible action to seek help managing his debt. It looks like his income 
has increased and some of his debts are effectively on hold. 
As a result, it appears this enabled Mr E to offer to boost his payments on his TM Advances 
loan. 
This isnt a reason for me not to uphold his complaint that TM Advances irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
I've set out below what TM Advances should now do to put things right for Mr E.
Putting things right
TM Advances should take the following steps: add up the total amount of money Mr E received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr E made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr E having paid more than he received, any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TM Advances should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr E, always keeping in mind 
its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Es credit file relating to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM 
Advances should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman