DRN-2892203
The complaint
Mr N complains that West Bay Insurance Plc formerly known as Zenith Insurance plc (West 
Bay) avoided his commercial vehicle insurance policy and turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr N took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with West Bay through a broker. 
Unfortunately, his vehicle was stolen. During its investigation of the claim West Bay 
discovered that the vehicle Mr N had insured was a tipper vehicle and not a pickup as had 
been declared when the policy was taken out. West Bay said it would never have sold him 
the policy if it had been told it was insuring a tipper. So, it avoided Mr Ns policy, declined his 
claim and refunded the premium.  
Mr N didnt think this was fair and he complained. He said hed had an issue with the 
brokers website when he first tried to take out the policy online. It crashed and he ended up 
finalising the policy inception over the telephone. He says he is positive that he chose 
tipper from the drop-down menu when he was taking out the policy. He says the if broker 
had gone through the entire quote from the beginning on the telephone when he called to 
finalise the sale, this discrepancy wouldnt have happened. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and said West Bay hadnt done anything wrong. The 
investigator found that Mr N confirmed the vehicle was a pick-up. The investigator also found 
that if Mr N had answered the question about what type of vehcle he had correctly, then 
West Bay wouldnt have covered him. 
But Mr N doesnt agree, and the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr N bought his policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for West Bay to take any action at all it
needs to show Mr N didnt do this and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
Looking at the evidence that was pulled through from the original online application, it says 
Type of Body  Pickup. And looking at the call note from the telephone call that took 
place after the website crashed it says, when discussing tool and contents cover PH said 
vehicle is a pickup. 
Mr N says he is positive that he clicked tipper on the drop-down menu. He says this choice 
was corrupted because the website crashed, and it must have come through as a pickup in 
error. West Bay said that if Mr N had answered this question correctly, it wouldnt have 
covered him. 
Looking at all the evidence presented on the file Im satisfied Mr N didnt answer this
question correctly. I can see the question asked about vehicle body type on the website lists 
both pickup and tipper as options. I dont think the fact the website crashed, likely 
corrupted this specific entry from tipper to pickup. This wouldnt make sense as from what 
I can see no other issues were raised about any of the other information that was pulled 
through from this initial application. The transcript from the follow on call would suggest Mr N 
called the vehicle a pickup, and theres a call note on file from after the avoidance letter 
was issued where Mr N is alleged to have said a pickup/tipper are the same to me. Further 
to this the vehicle is listed as a pickup on the statement of fact. So, if Mr N had checked 
this, he wouldve realised there was an error, as the body type didnt match what he says he 
entered online, nor does it match whats listed on the vehicles V5. Because of this I think its 
highly likely Mr N did submit the body type as pickup and as such I dont think hes made a 
fair presentation of the risk to West Bay.
For West Bay to take any action it needs to show it would have either not insured Mr N or 
done so, but on different terms. West Bay has provided evidence to show if Mr N answered 
the question about his vans body type correctly by saying tipper, it wouldnt have covered 
him. Im therefore satisfied Mr N has made a qualifying breach under the Act.
The remedies available to West Bay under the Act depend on whether the breach is 
deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. Its been suggested that West Bay 
has said Mr N was careless. But a careless misrepresentation is only relevant in consumer 
policies. This doesnt apply here, as this policy is a commercial one  so Im assuming West 
Bay think the qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless. As West Bay has shown 
it wouldnt have covered Mr N, its able to avoid the policy but needs to refund the premium 
as this is the remedy allowed under the Act if the misrepresentation was neither deliberate 
nor reckless.
I appreciate Mr N is very unhappy with this and hes said he was made feel like a liar. I 
understand he feels hes been treated harshly. He says that given the value of the vehicle, 
he would never have done this on purpose, and he feels that for the sake of a couple of 
hundred pounds for cover, whats happened to him is very unfair. Mr N has also provided 
adverts of identical vehicles from trade publications. These list the similar vehicles as a 
pickup or a tipper/pickup which he says shows they are both the same. Mr N also says 
once you enter the registration the correct vehicle should appear on the online application, 
as has happened on other websites. 
I understand and Ive considered all of Mr Ns arguments. However, I think the strongest 
evidence to support the correct body type of this vehicle is the V5. This is the official data 
from the vehicle and is the correct body type. And there is a difference between a pickup 
and a tipper. As such, this vehicle is a tipper and I think Mr N has misrepresented the 
vehicle type to West Bay when he took out this policy. And importantly, West Bay see a 
pickup and a tipper as being different. Thats something its entitled to do. And as mentioned 
above, its shown that it would insure a pick-up and not a tipper.  which again its entitled to 
do. So, while I appreciate Mr N might not consider them to be different, the difference is 
huge to West Bay. Had Mr N said his vehicle was a tipper  which it was  West Bay 
wouldnt have offered him this policy, so it would never have been on risk for this claim.
Because of this West Bay has avoided the policy, declined the claim and refunded the 
premium. And from what I can see West Bay has applied the remedy available to it under the Act correctly. I know Mr N will be disappointed with this, but West Bay hasnt done 
anything wrong and Im not going to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman