DRN-3630987
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) failed to remove a default from his 
credit file when he was told it would be done.
What happened
Mr E had an account with Clydesdale. Mr Es account was passed to its care team in 
September 2019 to arrange a repayment agreement of the outstanding unarranged overdraft 
debt. The agreement failed and the debt sold to a third party in March 2021 and default 
recorded on Mr Es credit file.
Mr E complained to Clydesdale about the default reported on his credit file. Clydesdale 
investigated Mr Es complaint and wrote to Mr E and explained that due to an error on its 
part when his account was passed over to a third party his account wasnt closed correctly 
which resulted in it also reporting a default on his credit file. Clydesdale apologised for the 
error and said that the information it reported regarding the default had been removed and 
compensated Mr E £100.
However, in its letter to Mr E, Clydesdale provided incorrect information about it removing 
the default. The information it corrected instead was the date that Mr Es debt was sold to a 
third party and that from this date the credit reference agencies would not report anything 
further from Clydesdale and that the default would not be removed.
Mr E was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants the 
default removed from his credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Es concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Clydesdale hadnt done anything wrong in recording a default on Mr Es credit file but 
thought that it should compensate Mr E £200 for the stress and anxiety caused by the 
confusion regarding what was being recorded on his credit file.
Mr E disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr E has experienced and see if Clydesdale has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr E back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
The crux of Mr Es complaint is about the default of his account registered on his credit file 
by Clydesdale. He says he was told it would be removed but that it wasnt.
So the first question I have to ask is whether a default shouldve been recorded on Mr Es 
credit file in the first place. And from my understanding I think the default was correctly 
applied. Mr Es had an outstanding debt with Clydesdale which he failed to pay back. The 
debt was sold to a third party and Mr Es account was defaulted.  I understand Mr E would 
like the default removed, but businesses have a duty to make sure the information it reports 
on customers affairs to the credit reference agencies they subscribe to is factually accurate. 
And providing what has been reported on the way Mr E managed his account is a true 
reflection of what happened I cant say anything wrong has happened here.  Ultimately, Mr E 
is responsible for the management of his account and I think that it would be reasonable to 
assume that any unpaid unauthorised debt would be reflected on his credit file.
I also understand that due to an error on Clydesdales part  in that it failed to close Mr Es 
account on its records  resulted in both Clydesdale and the third party who Mr Es debt was 
sold to reporting a default. But Clydesdale have confirmed that the credit reference agencies 
it subscribes to have removed the duplicate default. And as I havent seen anything to 
suggest this has not been done, I do not require Clydesdale to do anything further here.
I can see that there has indeed been some confusion where Mr E was wrongly told the 
default would be removed from his credit file and that Mr E has spent some time trying to 
have the situation rectified. And from what Ive seen Clydesdales communication with Mr E 
about this matter has continued to be somewhat confusing over a period of some months 
with it providing responses with no clear answer. So, Im in agreement with our adjudicator 
that Clydesdale should compensate Mr E a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused surrounding its communication with Mr E regarding what it reported on his credit file.  
So overall and having considered everything I think this is a fair way to settle Mr Es 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided  to uphold Mr Es complaint and direct 
Clydesdale Bank Plc compensate Mr E a further £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman