DRN-3589339
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) didnt 
send him a replacement credit card.
What happened
Mr H travelled to Dubai for work in October 2018. Later, he was caught in Dubai because of 
the pandemic and the restrictions on travel. His credit card expired in September 2020. He 
was sent an Emergency Replacement Card (ERC) in December 2020. This led to his 
account, mobile and internet banking being blocked. A new, fully functioning replacement 
card was sent to his UK address in May 2021.
Mt H complained. He said he had called Barclaycard in October 0218 to ask what would 
happen if he needed to get a replacement card  and was told he could be sent one. As a 
result of what happened, from September 2020, he had no access to his credit card account 
for an extended period  this caused him a lot of stress and worry, and he said he had to call 
Barclaycard many times to try to sort things out. He said his calls costs were £800. He said 
that when the temporary ERC card was received, it only worked once.
Barclaycard apologised for the poor service Mr H had experienced and paid £200 
compensation. They sent an ERC was sent to his Dubai address, but they couldnt see why 
it only worked once. They couldnt investigate that aspect further as the ERC had a limited 
time and had expired.
Mr H brought his complaint to us  as he wanted more compensation, including the 
reimbursement of his call costs. Our investigator thought that Barclaycard should increase 
the compensation by £100. He said that it was clear that Barclaycards call handlers hadnt 
provided a good service to Mr H but equally, the pandemic had meant that they had had to 
reorganise how they handled calls from customers and there were therefore longer wait 
times. This was made worse by branches closing or having reduced hours  which meant 
more people called them. That said, he couldnt see why Mr H hadnt been issued with a 
temporary ERC before December 2020  when his previous card expired in September 
2020.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the compensation should be higher. Barclaycard agreed with our 
investigators view. Mr H asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that Mr H received some poor service from Barclaycard - which both 
Barclaycard and our investigator acknowledge. 
Barclaycard cant evidence Mr Hs call with them in October 2018  so we dont know what 
he was told then. But its clear that Barclaycard shouldve been able to help him more 
effectively in September 2020  when his card expired. Mr H says he called Barclaycard at 
that time to ask for a replacement card  but they cant evidence to us the call he made. I 
think this is because they had to reorganise how they were handling calls at that time 
because of the pandemic. But I accept that Mr H did call Barclaycard then.
Its not clear why nothing then happened until December 2020  when Barclaycard agreed to 
send Mr H a temporary ERC card  but this was faulty and could only be used once. And  it 
had an added problem  which was that as part of their processes for issuing ERCs - 
Barclaycard blocked Mr Hs account and stopped access to internet and mobile banking. 
This was because ERCs were for short term, emergency use only.
Its also unclear why Barclaycard couldnt send a fully functioning credit card to Mr H in 
Dubai  theyve confirmed to us they couldve done and it was possible as part of their 
processes. But they didnt. Barclaycard cant say why they didnt do that. Instead, the normal 
replacement card was sent to Mr Hs UK address in May 2021  when he returned to the 
UK.
I have no doubt the whole episode was frustrating, time consuming and stressful for Mr H. 
And so  what this comes down to is the appropriate amount of compensation to be paid. 
Barclaycard have paid £200, and our investigator says another £100 should be paid.
In considering this, I must consider the extent of inconvenience and costs to Mr H. Here, we 
asked Mr H for evidence of the call costs he incurred when calling Barclaycard. But 
unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide these  as his Dubai mobile phone account 
was closed when he left. Unfortunately, its not possible to consider an award for call costs if 
we dont know what they are.
And  we asked him also if he had an alternative credit card from another provider while was 
in Dubai. I asked this as I could see that there werent any transactions on his Barclaycard 
account from July 2019 to September 2020 (when the card expired). Mr H didnt reply, and 
therefore I must assume that on the balance of probabilities, he was able to obtain, and use 
another credit card.  And so  it seems to me its likely that the extent of inconvenience to Mr 
H was reduced by him using another credit card.
(continued)
Putting things rightOur service has set down criteria for considering awards. We say an award between £100 
and £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single 
mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. And I think that on balance, Mr Hs 
complaint falls into this category. Therefore, I agree that a further payment of £100 should be 
made  bringing the compensation to £300. I know Mr H will be disappointed by this  as he 
was expecting more  but I am satisfied this is the right amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard must:
Pay compensation of £100 for stress and inconvenience. This in addition to the £200 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman