DRN-3077893
The complaint
Mr H complains,  through  a claims  management  company  (CMC),  that he was given  
unsuitable  advice  to invest  in an unregulated  investment  scheme,  namely  Elysian  Fuels,  
by Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd. In particular  he complains:
The investment  was unsuitable  relative  to his attitude  to risk and categorisation  
as a retail  client.
He wasn't  made  adequately  aware  he could  lose his entire  investment.
No due diligence  was provided  on the actual  true value  of the Elysian  Fuels  
shares  that have  been  shown  to be worthless.
The subsequent  purchase  of the shares  by Mr H's Self Invested  Pension  Plan 
(SIPP)  was unsuitable  relative  to his attitude  to risk and investment  requirements.
The risk of the investment  being  treated  as an unauthorised  payment  
with a subsequent  tax charge  was not explained  to him.
What happened
 Mr H and his wife Mrs H saw an adviser  in 2013  about  investing  some  of the money  
they held on deposit.  They  were  advised  to each  invest  in an unregulated  investment  - 
Elysian  Fuels.  Mr H was advised  to invest  £10,458  but the scheme  also included  a 
limited  recourse  loan of around  £52,500  allowing  the purchase  of £63,000  shares  in 
the scheme.  Shortly  after Mr H made  his investment  the shares  were  purchased  by his 
Pension  Scheme.
Elysian  Fuels  wasn't  successful  and shares  in the investment  now have  no value.  
HMRC  also became  involved  because  it said that the shares  sold to the Pension  
Scheme  were  worthless,  so it was treating  the payment  from the scheme  as an 
unauthorised  payment.  As a result  of this it said a tax charge  of 40% and a further  
surcharge  of 15% would  be applied  to the money  the Pension  Scheme  paid for the 
shares.
I have  issued  two provisional  decision  in this complaint,  both upholding  the complaint.  
These  are set out below  and form part of this final decision.  
In summary  I wasnt  satisfied  that the adviser  had enough  information  to have  a 
reasonable  basis  for believing  Mr H had the knowledge  and experience  to understand  
the risks  of the investment  or that he was able to bear the investment  risk. I wasnt  
satisfied  that the adviser  had researched  a suitable  investment  as he said he did and 
given  he was himself  invested  in Elysian  Fuels  I thought  it is more  likely  than not he 
always  intended  to recommend  this. 
I said that the list of objectives  in the suitability  report  is a list of Elysian  Fuels  
characteristics  rather  than actual  objectives.  And that the fact that Mr H invested  
through  an LLP and agreed  to take part in the day to day management  - which  isnt 
uncommon  with unregulated  investments  - didnt  make  the investment  isnt evidence  
the investment  was suitable.  
I wasnt  satisfied  that Mr Hs experience  in running  a property  business  made  the 
investment  suitable  and regardless  of whether  it was entitled  to rely on the marketing  
material  I wasnt  satisfied  it provided  suitable  advice  to Mr H. I thought  that the adviser  
placed  too much  weight  on Mr H having  a property  business  and has equated  that to 
him having  investment  experience.
I said that Wealthmasters  should  calculate  redress  based  on a comparison  between  
Elysian  Fuels  and an appropriate  benchmark.  I also thought  it should  be responsible  
for the tax consequences  arising  from the investment  being  put into Mr Hs SIPP.
Both  provisional  decisions  are set out below:
COPY SECOND PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr H complains,  through  a claims  management  company  (CMC),  that he was given  
unsuitable  advice  to invest  in an unregulated  investment  scheme,  namely  Elysian  Fuels,  
by Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd. In particular  he complains:
The investment  was unsuitable  relative  to his attitude  to risk and categorisation  
as a retail  client.
He wasn't  made  adequately  aware  he could  lose his entire  investment.
No due diligence  was provided  on the actual  true value  of the Elysian  Fuels  
shares  that have  been  shown  to be worthless.
The subsequent  purchase  of the shares  by Mr H's Self Invested  Pension  Plan 
(SIPP)  was unsuitable  relative  to his attitude  to risk and investment  requirements.
The risk of the investment  being  treated  as an unauthorised  payment  
with a subsequent  tax charge  was not explained  to him.
Background
In 2013  Mr H and Mrs H saw an adviser  for Wealthmasters  who recommended  they each  
invest  in Elysian  Fuels,  an unregulated  investment.  Mr H invested  £10,458  but the 
investment  also included  a limited-recourse  loan of just short  of £52,500  which  meant  
allowing  for purchase  of shares  of £63,000  in Elysian  Fuels.  Shortly  after he took out the 
investment  the shares  were  purchased  by his SIPP.
Elysian  Fuels  wasn't  successful  and shares  in the investment  now have  no value.  HMRC  
also became  involved.  It wrote  to Mr H saying  that the shares  sold to the SIPP  were  
worthless,  so it was intending  to treat the payment  from the SIPP  as an unauthorised  
payment  and that on that basis  Mr H would  have  to pay a tax charge  of 40% with a 
further  surcharge  of 15%.
I issued  a provisional  decision  on the complaint  a copy  of which  is attached  and forms  part 
of this final decision.  In short,  I made  the following  key findings:
It isn't necessary  for me to make  a finding  on whether  Mr H was properly  
categorised  as a High  Net Worth  individual  as this doesn't  change  the adviser's  
responsibility  to make  a suitable  recommendation.There  is a lack of information  in the fact find about  Mr H's investment  knowledge  
and experience.
The reference  to shares  he held of £350,000  more  likely  than not refers  to 
shares  in his own business.
I am not satisfied  in the circumstances  that Mr H had any significant  
shareholding  and even  if he did, there  is nothing  to show  what  actual  
investment  knowledge  or experience  he had.
There  is no evidence  he had any previous  experience  of an investment  like 
Elysian  fuels  such  that he would've  understood  the risk of that type of 
investment.
Such  knowledge  and experience  can't  be assumed  because  he signed  to confirm  
he was a High  Net Worth  Individual,  had a significant  property  portfolio  and was 
entrepreneurial.
I have  considered  the YouTube  video  where  Mr H is interviewed  about  his 
property  business,  but I am not persuaded  that his knowledge  and understanding  
of this gave  him the knowledge  and experience  to understand  the Elysian  Fuels  
investment.
I am not satisfied  that his directorships  of various  companies  gave  him 
relevant  understanding.
I am not satisfied  the adviser  had enough  information  to have  a reasonable  basis  
for believing  Mr H had the necessary  knowledge  and experience  to understand  
the risks  of the investment.
I am not satisfied  that Mr H was able to bear the investment  risk of the investment  
as, on the information  available  in the fact find, the money  invested  in Elysian  
Fuels  was 70% of his available  cash.
Given  Mr H's answers  to questions  showed  Mr H had no preferences  as to the 
type of investment  he was invested  in the reference  to him wanting  to invest  in a 
green  product  in the adviser's  notes  makes  it more  likely  than not the adviser  - 
who was already  invested  in Elysian  Fuels  himself  - suggested  this.
It was unlikely  the adviser  researched  a suitable  investment  and, given  he 
was already  invested  in Elysian  Fuels,  it is more  likely  than not always  
intended  to recommend  this.
The list of Mr H's objectives  in the suitability  report  is a list of the characteristics  
of the Elysian  Fuels  investment  rather  than actual  objectives  of Mrs H.
The adviser  actually  recorded  in the fact find that he had advised  Mr H about  
selling  the Elysian  Fuels  investment  to his Pension,  so Wealthmasters  was 
wrong  to say there  was no evidence  the adviser  advised  him about  this and it 
was just an option  he referred  to.
Wealthmasters  should  pay redress  based  on a comparison  between  the zero 
value  of the Elysian  Fuels  investment  and the FTSE  All Share  Index.
It should  also pay the tax and other  costs  HMRC  says  is payable  as a result  of 
his Pension  investing  in the Elysian  Fuels  investment.
I gave  both parties  the opportunity  of responding.  Wealthmasters  didn't  agree  with 
my provisional  decision.  In summary  it said the following:
The Elysian  Fuels  investment  wasn't  a UCIS  - each  investment  was made  within  
a Limited  Liability  Partnership  (LLP).
By contracting  with the LLP each  member  accepted  that they had responsibility  
for running  the LLP on a day to day basis  and each  person  signed  up to a 
number  of obligations
Mr H was a true entrepreneur  and would've  been  accustomed  to volatile  
geared  investment  through  his property  business  and he would've  known  
how an LLP operated.HMRC  have  concluded  that the marketing  material  for Elysian  Fuels  as presented  
by Future  Capital  Partners  was grossly  misleading  and the ombudsman  should  
recognise  that they were  authorised  and regulated  by the FCA at the time they 
issued  marketing  material  to IFA's.
The regulator  states  that an IFA is entitled  to rely on the marketing  material  issued  
by a regulated  firm and at the time the government  were  strongly  in favour  of 
green  investments.
The investment  was made  up of an 84% limited  recourse  loan,  so investors  only 
had to provide  16% of the investment  amount  so the associated  risks  were  limited  
with a potential  upside.
The interpretation  by an experienced  investor  such  as Mr H in this situation  
would  mean  that the investment  was anything  but high risk to him compared  to 
say his property  investments.
It wasn't  involved  in the pension  arrangement  and it feels  this is a critical  part of 
this action.
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair 
and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
The reason  I referred  to the investment  as a UCIS  was because  the investigator  referred  
to it as such  in his opinion  and in its response  to the opinion  Wealthmasters  didn't  say this 
was wrong.  It is not central  to my decision  that the investment  was a UCIS,  it was still an 
unregulated  investment  that Mr H is unlikely  to have  had any previous  experience  of.
Wealthmasters  has said that those  investing  in Elysian  Fuels  invested  in an LLP and 
each  member  of the LLP had to sign up and agree  to take part in the day to day 
management  of the LLP.  This kind of arrangement  is common  in unregulated  
investments  that are intended  to provide  tax benefits  to those  investing.  Mr H agreeing  
to being  involved  in day to day management  of the LLP doesn't  provide  evidence  
Elysian  Fuels  was a suitable  recommendation.
Wealthmasters  has said that Mr H was a true entrepreneur.  However,  running  a 
property  business  and investing  in an unregulated  investment  are very different  things  
and I am not persuaded  that Mr H's experience  of his property  business  means  Elysian  
Fuels  was a suitable  recommendation.
Wealthmasters  says  it was entitled  to rely on the marketing  material  issued  by a 
regulated  firm and that HMRC  has said that the marketing  material  issued  by Future  
Capital  Partners  was grossly  misleading.  However,  I am not persuaded  that Future  
Capital's  marketing  material  and Wealthmasters'  reliance  on this means  it didn't  do 
anything  wrong  when  advising  Mr H to invest  in the scheme.  Regardless  of the what  the 
marketing  material  said I am not satisfied  it gave  Mr H suitable  advice.
Wealthmasters  has referred  to the government  being  in favour  of green  investments  at 
the time of advice.  Whilst  this might  have  made  it less likely  HMRC  would  challenge  the 
scheme,  I don't  think  this means  the investment  was suitable  for Mr H.
I note what  Wealthmasters  has said about  Mr H only having  to invest  16% of the money  
used  to purchase  the shares  with the balance  of the investment  money  coming  from a 
limited  recourse  loan.  I acknowledge  Mr H wasn't  investing  that much  of his own money  
in the scheme  - although  I pointed  out in my PD the amount  invested,  based  on the 
information  in the fact find was around  70% of his available  cash.  Even  if the amount  Mr H invested  was affordable,  this doesn't  of itself  make  the investment  suitable  as that 
is only one element  of suitability  the adviser  had to consider.
Wealthmasters  has referred  to Mr H being  an experienced  investor,  but there  is little 
evidence  to suggest  that he was.  I have  already  said that I think  the £350,000  of shares  
referred  to in the fact find more  likely  than not referred  to his property  business  rather  than 
to a portfolio  of shares.  Even  if that is wrong,  and Mr H did have  other  shares,  the adviser  
had no information  about  those  shares  so had no basis  on which  to assess  Mr H's 
experience.
The adviser  seems  to have  put far too much  weight  on Mr H having  a property  business  
and seems  to have  equated  that to having  investment  experience.  I don't  accept  that just 
because  someone  has a property  portfolio  this makes  them  an experienced  investor.  I 
think  it makes  them  an experienced  property  investor,  and I don't  think  that is the same  
thing.
Wealthmasters  has suggested  that Mr H wouldn't  have  considered  Elysian  Fuels  as high 
risk compared  to property  transactions  he was used  to making.  I think  this is trying  to 
compare  two different  things.  I don't  think  it adds  anything  to speculate  on how Mr H might  
have  viewed  investment  into something  he had no experience  of based  on his experience  
of property  transactions.
Mr H did receive  pension  advice  from a pension  adviser  about  transferring  his existing  
two pensions  into the SIPP.  The pension  adviser  wasn't  employed  by Wealthmasters  
but by an Appointed  Representative  of another  regulated  business  which  is no longer  
trading.  The SIPP  suitability  report  I have  seen  is dated  11 April 2013,  the day before  
the meeting  between  Mr H and the investment  adviser,  which  the pension  adviser  also 
attended.
The SIPP  suitability  report  refers  to Mr H transferring  his two existing  pensions  into a 
SIPP  so that the SIPP  could  purchase  the shares  in Elysian  Fuels  and release  money  to 
Mr H so that this could  be used  to purchase  a property.
Whilst  I acknowledge  Mr H received  advice  on the pension  transfer  from another  
business,  I don't  accept  that this means  Wealthmasters  isn't responsible  for the Elysian  
Fuels  shares  being  purchased  by Mr H's SIPP.  I think  the evidence  I have  seen  makes  it 
clear  that the investment  adviser's  recommendation  was specifically  to allow  Elysian  
shares  to be purchased  by Mr H's SIPP  - the advice  was given  in a joint meeting  with the 
pension  adviser  and the investment  adviser  recorded  in the fact find that he had advised  
Mr H that he should  sell the shares  to his pension  or make  an in-specie  transfer.
I note this is watered  down  in the subsequent  investment  suitability  letter  dated  17 April 
2013  in that the investment  adviser  stated:
"In the future  you would  have  the option  to in-specie  transfer  the holdings  into your SIPP  
or if you had sufficient  cash  reserves  in your SIPP  account.  the shares  could  be 
purchased  by your SIPP  to fully shelter  any Capital  Gains  which  is one of your main  
objectives."
I think  the reference  to the 'option'  of transferring  the shares  to the SIPP  in the future  is 
unlikely  to reflect  what  was discussed  in the meeting  on 12 April 2013.  I think  there  can 
be little doubt  that the investment  adviser  was fully aware  the shares  were  going  to be 
purchased  by the SIPP  and that there  was enough  money  to do so given  the pension  
adviser  was at the meeting.  I think  the evidence  clearly  shows  that the investment  
adviser  recommended  investment  in Elysian  Fuels  specifically  so that Mr H's SIPP  could  purchase  the shares.  His advice  was not some  standalone  piece  of investment  advice  
but fundamental  to Mr H using  his SIPP  to purchase  the shares,  as the investment  
adviser  well knew.
If the investment  adviser  had provided  suitable  advice  the investment  in Elysian  Fuels  
would  not have  taken  place  and nor would  there  have  been  a subsequent  purchase  of 
those  shares  by the SIPP.  In the circumstances  I am satisfied  that Wealthmasters  is 
responsible  for the SIPP  purchasing  the shares  in Elysian  Fuels.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr H as closely  as possible  into the position  he would  probably  now be in 
if he had been  given  suitable  advice.  I think  he would  have  invested  differently.  It isn't 
possible  to say precisely  what  he would  have  done  but I think  on balance  what  I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
I think  fair redress  is to calculate  the notional  position  Mr H would  have  been  in if he had 
not been  advised  to invest  in Elysian  Fuels  and the shares  hadn't  been  purchased  by his 
SIPP.
In calculating  Mr H's actual  position,  I am mindful  that the money  paid to him by the SIPP  
for purchase  of Elysian  shares  was for him to purchase  another  property  for his property  
portfolio.
In the circumstances  he has had the benefit  of using  that money  for that purpose  and 
it is therefore  appropriate  to take into account  the current  value  of the money  paid to 
him and used  to purchase  a property.
It seems  to me this can be established  by Mr H providing  evidence  of the purchase  price  
of that property  and its current  value.  It should  then be possible  to work  out how much  
the money  paid to him and used  for the purchase  is currently  worth.
What  should  Wealthmasters  do
Wealthmasters  should  calculate  the following  on the date of my final 
decision:  Notional  position  = A+B where:
A= Value  of Mr H's SIPP  if the money  used  to purchase  shares  in Elysian  Fuels  had 
instead  been  invested  in funds  in line with the FTSE  ALL Share  Index  at the date of 
calculation.  I think  this is an appropriate  benchmark  to use given  Mr H's circumstances  
and risk appetite.
B = The value  of Mr H's initial  contribution  of £10,458  to Elysian  Fuels  which  he would  
have  retained  if he hadn't  invested  in the scheme.
Actual  position=  C+D+E-  F where:
C = Value  of current  pension.
As the investment  held in the SIPP  is illiquid  (so cannot  be readily  sold on the 
open  market),  it may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the investment.  So, I 
think  it is reasonable  to assume  the investment  has no current  value  and there  is 
no prospect  of any future  return.  On that basis  it is fair to make  no allowance  for a current  or future  value.  For that reason,  the actual  value  should  be assumed  to 
be nil.
D = Value  of any interest  Mr H held in the LLP.  I consider  this value  to be nil and I do 
not think  there  is any reasonable  prospect  of his interest  having  any value  in the 
future.
E = Current  value  of the money  released  to Mr H from the sale of Elysian  shares  by him 
to the SIPP.  As explained  above  Mr H will need  to provide  evidence  to establish  how 
much  the money  released  and invested  in a property  is now worth.
F = The amount  Mr H has been  asked  to pay HMRC  above  the tax he would  have  
been  expected  to pay if he had invested  differently  and drawn  his benefits  in future.  To 
be clear  this includes  any interest  applied  by HMRC  up to the date of my final decision.  
In addition,  any tax due as a result  of Mr H's interest  in the LLP.
If the notional  value  is greater  than the actual  value,  then Mr H has suffered  a loss 
(after  allowing  for future  taxation)  equal  to the difference
In addition,  it should  pay Mr H £300  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Undertakings
Mr H should  undertake  to pay the sum HMRC  has asked  him to pay, if the full amount  
of compensation  is paid to him.
Mr H should  provide  Wealthmasters  with an undertaking  to pay to it any amount  of refund  
he receives  from HMRC,  following  the conclusion  of its investigations,  in the event  that it 
concludes  less tax is due than Mr H has already  paid to it.
Wealthmasters  should  undertake  to pay Mr H additional  money  if, following  the 
conclusion  of HMRC's  investigations,  it concludes  he has to pay more  in tax than he has 
paid on account.
The undertakings  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be incurred  on drawing  
the receipt  from the SIPP.  Wealthmasters  has to meet  any costs  of drawing  up the 
undertakings.
Where  I uphold  a complaint,  I can make  a money  award  requiring  a financial  business  to 
pay compensation  of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and/or  costs  that I consider  
appropriate.  If I consider  that fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000,  I may recommend  
that Wealthmasters  pays  the balance.
my provisional  decision
I uphold  the complaint  for the reasons  I have  set out above  and in my provisional  
decisions.  I consider  that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as set out above.  
Wealthmasters
Financial  Management  Ltd should  provide  details  of its calculations  to Mr H in a clear  
and simple  format.
My decision  is that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd should  pay the amount  
produced  by that calculation  up to the maximum  of £150,000  (including  the amount  
payable  for distress  and inconvenience  but excluding  costs)  plus interest  at 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision  if the award  is not settled  with 28 days  of 
Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd receipt  of Mr H's acceptance  of that decision.
If an undertaking  results  in a future  sum being  owed  to Mr H by Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Ltd which  would  take the total compensation  payable  to him above  
£150,000,  it is required  only to pay the extra  sum to Mr H up to the maximum  of 
£150,000  as above.
Recommendation:  If the total amount  produced  by the calculation  of fair compensation  
above  exceeds  £150,000,  I recommend  that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd 
pays  Mr H the balance  plus any interest  on the balance  as set out above.
If an undertaking  results  in a future  sum being  owed  to Mr H by Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Ltd which  would  take the total compensation  payable  to him above  
£150,000,  I recommend  that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd should  pay the 
balance  as above.
However,  if the compensation  Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd needs  to pay 
Mr H now already  exceeds  £150,000,  and it does  not accept  my recommendation,  it is 
not required  to provide  him with an undertaking  to pay him more  as per the scenario  
outlined  above.
If Mr H accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  is binding  on Wealthmasters  
Financial  Management  Ltd, but my recommendation  is not. Further,  it's unlikely  that Mr 
H can accept  my decision  and go to court  to ask for the balance.
Mr H should  also be aware  that by accepting  my decision,  it could  affect  his legal  rights  
should  any liabilities  arise  in respect  of the limited  recourse  loan he used  to purchase  
the shares  or otherwise.  So, Mr H may want  to consider  getting  independent  legal  
advice  before  deciding  whether  to accept  this decision.
COPY  FIRST  PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains,  through  a claims  management  company  (CMC),  that he was given  
unsuitable  advice  to invest  in an unregulated  collective  investment  scheme,  namely  
Elysian  Fuels,  by Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd. In particular  he 
complains:
The investment  was unsuitable  relative  to his attitude  to risk and 
categorisation  as a retail  client.
He wasn't  made  adequately  aware  he could  lose his entire  investment.
No due diligence  was provided  on the actual  true value  of the Elysian  Fuels  
shares  that have  been  shown  to be worthless.
The subsequent  purchase  of the shares  by Mr H's SIPP  was unsuitable  
relative  to his attitude  to risk and investment  requirements.
The risk of the investment  being  treated  as an unauthorised  payment  with a 
subsequent  tax charge  was not explained  to him.
backgroundMr H and his wife Mrs H saw an adviser  in 2013  about  investing  some  of the money  
they held on deposit.  They  were  advised  to each  invest  in an Unregulated  Collective  
Investment  Scheme  (UCIS)  - Elysian  Fuels.  Mr H was advised  to invest  £10,458  but 
the scheme  also included  a limited  recourse  loan of around  £52,500  allowing  the 
purchase  of £63,000  shares  in the scheme.  Shortly  after Mr H made  his investment  
the shares  were  purchased  by his Pension  Scheme.
Elysian  Fuels  wasn't  successful  and shares  in the investment  now have  no value.  
HMRC  also became  involved  because  it said that the shares  sold to the Pension  
Scheme  were  actually  worthless,  so it was treating  the payment  from the scheme  as 
an unauthorised  payment.  As a result  of this it said a tax charge  of 40% and a further  
surcharge  of 15% would  be applied  to the money  the Pension  Scheme  paid for the 
shares.
Both  Mr Hand  Mrs H have  complained  but as the investments  they made  weren't  
made  jointly  we have  dealt  with them  as separate  complaints.  I have  already  drafted  
my provisional  decision  on Mrs H's complaint  and as the issues  and arguments  are 
the same  my findings  and decision  are the same.
Wealthmasters  didn't  uphold  the complaint  by Mr H, although  it provided  one 
response  for both his and Mrs H's complaint.  In summary  it made  the following  
points  in its final response  letter:
The fact find that was signed  by Mr H (and Mrs H) showed  they had 
significant  joint assets  and joint income  of around  £140,000.
The only mortgage  debt stated  in the fact find was for £249,000  and 
confirmed  that there  were  no other  loans  or hire purchase  agreements.
Mr H (and Mrs H) stated  they didn't  want  to disclose  information  for things  
such  as liabilities  and pensions.
The adviser's  notes  in the fact find record  that they had 15 properties  that 
were  rented  out and free of debt and they wanted  to invest  in a green  
product  and shelter  any capital  gains.
They  chose  what  to do in respect  of the Elysian  Fuels  shares  and their 
Pension  Schemes  on their own and they only have  themselves  to blame  for 
being  at the mercy  of HMRC.
They  presumably  had a significant  supplementary  income  from the rented  
properties  over the income  from their business.
They  were  correctly  assessed  as adventurous  and entrepreneurial  clients  and 
were  confident  and successful  business  people  with significant  wealth.
They  satisfied  the requirements  of the FCA to be certified  as high net worth  
individuals  and signed  to confirm  this.The  adviser  states  they would  have  the 
option  to in-specie  transfer  the holdings  into their SIPP's  or if there  are 
sufficient  cash  reserves  the SIPP's  could  purchase  the shares.  This was just a 
summary  of some  of the future  options  they had and can't  be taken  as a 
recommendation.
The suitability  report  of 17 April 2013  states  clearly  that the report  only refers  
to the recommendations  in connection  with a new investment  and any other  
areas  would  be discussed  under  a separate  report  - and there  was no other  
report  as the adviser  provided  no other  advice.
They  only selected  the basic  level  of customer  service  which  was for no 
ongoing  advice.The application  forms  completed  by them  included  the terms  and 
conditions  provided  by Future  Capital  Partners  who were  promoters  of the 
Elysian  Fuels  investment.  The terms  included  a declaration  stating  that the 
investor  had taken  all necessary  professional  advice  and are aware  of the 
special  risks  in participating  in an investment  such  as Elysian  Fuels.
The suitability  report  clearly  identified  the risks  of the investment.
One of our investigators  considered  the complaint  but didn't  think  it should  be upheld.  
In short,  he said:
Mr H was identified  as having  an 'adventurous'  attitude  to risk and the 
answers  to the risk appetite.
The advice  to Mr H was suitable  for his investment  objective,  his high 
'adventurous'  risk profile  and financial  circumstances.
He was made  fully aware  of the investment  risk and accepted  the risks  to 
his capital  and proceeded  on that basis.
Mr H was a wealthy  high net worth  individual  and the Elysian  Fuels  
investment  was a small  proportion  of the overall  assets  he had declared  to 
Wealthmasters.
Wealthmasters  was given  no indication  that Mr H and Mrs H's wealth  was 
lower  than what  was declared  in the fact find or that their properties  had 
mortgage  liabilities  attached.
Mr H had also signed  the statement  for a high net worth  individual  and 
declared  that he had in excess  of the minimum  required  assets  to be certified  
as such.
It was for Mr H to give accurate  information  and to challenge  the contents  of 
the fact find and high net worth  statement  and not sign these  if he disagreed  
with the contents.
Elysian  Fuels  was a UCIS  and had higher  risks  attached  but those  were  
explained.
Mr H wanted  the high-risk  Elysian  Fuels  investment  and would've  understood  
the product  documentation  and risk warnings  that were  given  to him. He 
wanted  and agreed  to invest  and had the capacity  for any loss
The CMC  didn't  agree  with the investigator.  In summary  the main  points  it made  
were  as follows:
Wealthmasters  were  involved  in reverse  engineered  sales  of Elysian  Fuels  to 
clients  on the basis  it was a vehicle  designed  to provide  access  to pension  
monies  which  has subsequently  been  deemed  pension  liberation  and none  of 
these  risks  were  explained  to the client.
It is a matter  of fact that Mr H wasn't  a high net worth  individual.  He had 
ownership  of £600,000  of property  with mortgages  of £450,000.  If he had a 
half share  in unencumbered  property  worth  £1.1 million  as recorded  in the 
fact find his income  would've  reflected  this but he is shown  as only earning  
£75,000  from his business.
The adviser  was manufacturing  documents  and telling  clients  they had to 
sign to get access  to the Elysian  Fuels  investment.
Mr H accepts  he had an adventurous  risk profile  but not to the extent  he 
would  lose 100%  of his entire  pension.
Mr H didn't  want  a green  investment  and the fact find records  he didn't  want  to 
consider  ethical  investments.  At the same  time,  it stated  he wanted  to invest  in a green  product.  This is another  example  of the adviser  engineering  a fact 
for his own benefit.
The adviser  didn't  highlight  the potential  HMRC  tax charge  of 55% on the 
acquisition  of the Elysian  Fuels  shares  by his Pension  Scheme  which  is a 
direct  result  of allowing  Mr H to acquire  shares  on an enhanced  valuation  
basis.ven  if Wealthmasters  wasn't  complicit  in the pension  investment  it didn't  
carry  out sufficient  due diligence  on Elysian  Fuels.
Mr H had no assets  with capital  gains  tax considerations  and the Elysian  
Fuels  shares  didn't  produce  a gain so why were  the shares  acquired  by the 
pension  fund?  Or why didn't  the pension  fund not acquire  the shares  
directly?
Mr H didn't  sign the suitability  report.
The investigator  responded  but didn't  change  his opinion  so the matter  has been  
referred  to me for review.
my findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
I think  it important  to make  clear  to the parties  that my findings  and decision  are made  
on a balance  of probabilities  - what  is more  likely  than not - based  on the evidence  
that I have  been  given.  So, I am not saying  what  definitely  did or didn't  happen.
I note that the CMC  has said that Mr H was wrongly  categorised  as a high net worth  
individual  - which  categorisation  allows  promotion  of a UCIS  to a retail  investor  which  
would  otherwise  not be possible.  I note the CMC's  arguments  about  this categorisation  
and what  it has said about  the accuracy  of the information  in the fact find.
But I don't  think  it is necessary  for me to make  a finding  on whether  Mr H was a high 
net worth  individual  as this doesn't  change  the adviser's  responsibility  to make  a 
suitable  recommendation.  And I am not satisfied  the Elysian  Fuels  investment  was 
suitable  for Mr H for reasons  I will explain.
I think  it is important  to set out what  the adviser  needed  to do when  assessing  
suitability.  The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook  (COBS)  in the Handbook  of the 
regulator  sets out the necessary  information  that a firm must  obtain  at COBS  9.2.1.  
This includes  the client's;  knowledge  and experience  in the investment  field relevant  
to the specific  type of designated  investment;  financial  situation;  and investment  
objectives.
A firm must  obtain  from the client  such  information  as is necessary  for it to understand  
the essential  facts  about  the client  and have  a reasonable  basis  for believing  that the 
recommended  investment  meets  the clients  investment  objectives;  is such  that the 
client  is able to bear any related  investment  risk consistent  with the investment  
objective;  is such  that the client  has the necessary  experience  and knowledge  in order  
to understand  the risk involved.
I am particularly  concerned  about  the lack of information  about  Mr H's investment  
knowledge  and experience.  I note the fact find records  that there  were  joint shares  worth  £350,000.  But there  is no further  information  about  what  these  shares  were  and 
the CMC  has said the figure  of £350,000  was actually  the value  of Mr H's business.
I think  it is more  like than not that this is the case  given  that there  is provision  in the 
fact find for identifying  the product  provider  of the shares  but 'not applicable'  has been  
put and the figure  of £350,000  is repeated  in the fact find but identified  as 'value  of 
business  share'.
So I am not persuaded  Mr H did have  any significant  shareholding  and even  if he did 
there  is still nothing  to show  what  actual  investment  knowledge  and experience  he 
had as there  are no details  of any shares.  There  is certainly  nothing  to show  he had 
any knowledge  or experience  of UCISs  such  as Elysian  Fuels  so that he will have  
understood  the risk of that type of investment.
I don't  think  such  knowledge  and experience  can be assumed  simply  because  he 
signed  to say he was a high net worth  individual,  had a significant  property  portfolio  
and was entrepreneurial  - which  seems  to me what  the adviser  has done.
I have  noted  Wealthmasters  reference  to a YouTube  video  in which  Mr H is 
interviewed.  It says  this makes  clear  he runs a successful  property  business,  had re-
mortgaged  existing  property  to purchase  new properties  - so would've  understood  
'gearing'  for investment  purposes  - and was involved  in property  lease  options  on a 
major  scale.  But I am not persuaded  that Mr H's understanding  and knowledge  of his 
property  business  gave  him the knowledge  and experience  to understand  the Elysian  
Fuels  investment.
I also don't  think  the fact that he has held directorships  of various  companies  gave  him 
the relevant  understanding.  It isn't in dispute  he was entrepreneurial,  but that doesn't  
mean  he had any investment  experience  that meant  he understood  the risks  of the 
Elysian  Fuels  investment.
In the circumstances  I am not satisfied  that the adviser  did have  sufficient  information  
to have  a reasonable  basis  for believing  Mr H had the necessary  experience  and 
knowledge  to understand  the risks  of the investment.
I have  other  concerns  with the advice  to invest  in Elysian  Fuels  based  on the 
information  in the fact find. I am not satisfied  that Mr H was able to bear the 
investment  risk of the investment.  The only assets  recorded  were  the joint property  
portfolio  of £1.1 million,  the 'shares'  of £350,000  - which  as I have  said I think  was the 
value  of the business  not actual  investments  - and the joint bank  account  of £30,000.
So, based  on the information  in the fact find the only money  Mr H actually  had access  
to was the money  in the joint account.  Based  on him being  entitled  to half of this, the 
investment  in Elysian  Fuels  was over 70% of his available  cash.  It is quite  possible  
his financial  position  was better  than this, but the adviser  had to base  his advice  on 
the information  that was available  to him.
There  are also discrepancies  in the fact find. Mr H clearly  answered  no to questions  
about  whether  there  were  countries,  sectors,  companies,  or funds  he did or didn't  
want  to invest  in. He also answered  no to the question  whether  He wanted  to 
consider  ethical  investments.It is only in the handwritten  notes  of the adviser  that it is stated  that Mr H wanted  to 
invest  in a green  product  and the notes  refer  to the adviser  discussing  green  oil with 
him. Given  Mr H had clearly  indicated  he had no preferences  with regard  to 
investments  I think  it is more  likely  than not that the only reason  there  is reference  to 
investing  in a green  product  is because  the adviser  suggested  this, not because  this 
was something  he had any interest  in himself.
So I am not satisfied  that one of his objectives  was actually  to invest  in a green  
product.  The CMC  has pointed  out that the adviser  himself  was already  invested  in 
Elysian  Fuels.  I think  this also calls into question  the basis  of his advice.
I think  it is very unlikely  he researched  a suitable  investment  for Mr H, as the notes  
in the fact find indicated  he would  do. I think  it is more  likely  than not - given  he was 
already  invested  in the investment  and made  reference  to investing  in a green  
product  and discussing  green  oil - that the adviser  always  intended  to recommend  
Elysian  Fuels.
I think  it is also of note that Mr H's objectives  and requirements  set out in the 
suitability  report  appear  to be a list of the characteristics  of the Elysian  Fuels  
investment  rather  than Mr H's actual  objectives.
When  looked  at as a whole  the fact find and suitability  letter  read very much  as if the 
adviser  has included  information  that doesn't  reflect  Mr H's actual  needs  and objectives  
but seeks  to justify  the recommendation  made  instead.  I think  this is an investment  that 
was driven  by the adviser  rather  than based  on Mr H's needs.
Taking  into account  the various  issues  I have  identified  I am not satisfied  that the 
Elysian  Fuels  investment  was a suitable  recommendation.
That is not the end of the matter  though  as Mr H sold the shares  in Elysian  Fuels  to 
his Pension  Scheme.  Wealthmasters  has said that this was his choice  and not on 
advice  from the adviser  who only referred  to this as an option.  It has also pointed  to 
the suitability  report  stating  that the report  was only in relation  to the new investment  
and any other  areas  would  be discussed  under  a separate  report.
But the adviser  didn't  just refer  to selling  the shares  to the Pension  as an option  as 
Wealthmasters  has suggested.  And it is wrong  to say, as it has said,  that there  is no 
documentation  whatsoever  to demonstrate  it advised  Mr H in relation  to the sale of 
shares  to his Pension  Scheme.  The adviser  actually  stated  specifically  he had given  
such  advice  in the fact find, when  he wrote:
"I have  also advised  (my emphasis)  them  to shelter  capital  gains  either  in a pension  by 
making  an in- specie  transfer  or selling  the investment  to the pension,  we discounted  an 
offshore  trust due to the ongoing  fees."
So I am satisfied  that the adviser  did advise  Mr H to either  transfer  the investment  
in-specie  or sell it to his Pension.  In the circumstances,  whilst  the adviser  may have  
had no further  involvement  in the sale of shares  to the Pension  Scheme,  I think  Mr H 
only proceeded  to do that because  that is was what  the adviser  recommended  he 
should  do.It clearly  wasn't  just something  he set out to do on his own as Wealthmasters  
suggested,  but was something  that adviser  indicated  he should  do. So I think  it was 
foreseeable  He would  do this and the consequences  of him doing  so are something  it is 
responsible  for.
What  Wealthmasters  should  do to put things  right.
There  is no reason  to think  Mr H wouldn't  have  invested  the money  he put into Elysian  
Fuels  in a different  investment.  The CMC  has not suggested  he wasn't  an adventurous  
investor,  and given  the answers  he gave  to the risk assessment  questionnaire  it seems  
clear  that it is appropriate  to treat him as such.  Mr H's investment  now has no value.  
So Wealthmasters  should  compare  this as against  the FTSE  All Share  Index  and pay 
the difference  to Mr H.
If Mr H hadn't  invested  in Elysian  Fuels  he would  not have  ended  up selling  the 
shares  in it to his Pension  Scheme  as the adviser  suggested.  So he would  not have  
been  in the position  he is now in with regard  to HMRC.  I think  in the circumstances  
Wealthmasters  should  also pay the tax and any other  costs  HMRC  says  is payable  
as a result  of this.
I also think  Mr H has been  caused  distress  and inconvenience  as a result  of the 
unsuitable  advice,  in particular  because  of what  has happened  with regard  to HMRC.  I 
think  Wealthmasters  should  pay£300  for this.
my provisional  decision
I uphold  this complaint  for the reasons  I have  explained.  Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Limited  has to calculate  and pay the redress  as set out above.
I gave  both parties  the opportunity  of responding  to my second  provisional  decision.  Mr 
Hs representative  responded  and said Mr H had no additional  points  he wanted  to 
make.  Wealthmasters  responded  and made  the following  points:
The ombudsman  has not come  to a fair and reasonable  decision  for all parties.
He has referred  to other  advisers  who advised  Mr H and it is clear  that the 
pension  adviser  must  bear some  of the compensatory  costs  as must  the 
pension  administrators  for the lack of due diligence  when  accepting  the Elysian  
Shares  into the SIPP.
The ombudsmans  findings  place  the whole  of the responsibility  at the door of 
Wealthmasters  and that is unjust  and not in line with our services  policy  or 
responsibility.
We should  make  sure all parties  bear responsibility  are held responsible  for 
wrongdoing.
It is its view that the pension  adviser  is responsible  for the advice  to transfer  the 
pensions  and recommended  the secondary  planning  and should  compensate  
Mr H accordingly.
Why has an FSCS  claim  not been  made  on behalf  of Mr H.
The pension  administrators  should  also pay part of the award  for their regulatory  
failure.
It doesnt  agree  that it is at fault but will of course  be bound  by the decision,  but 
the other  parties  must  be made  to meet  a proportion  of the award.Mr H should  assign  his rights  regarding  any claim  against  the other  firms  to it.
The tax position  is incorrect  in that as the HMRC  investigation  hasnt  concluded  
and until it is Mr H has no liability  and has suffered  no loss.
If Mr H enters  into a voluntary  agreement  with HMRC  then this is in full and final 
settlement  and no refund  will be payable  so it would  not be fair to make  it pay 
anything  until matters  are finalised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Wealthmasters has stated it doesnt consider that it is at fault but hasnt sought to 
provide any further information or argument in relation to my findings about the advice to 
invest in Elysian Fuels being unsuitable or the advice to put this in his SIPP. In the 
circumstances I have no reason to change my findings on that issue. In short, I think it is 
more likely than not that the advice to invest in Elysian Fuels and put this in his SIPP was 
unsuitable for the reasons that I have previously set out in my provisional decisions.
Wealthmasters has made two main points about the redress I have awarded in my second 
provisional decision. The first is that the redress isnt fair because there are other firms which 
should pay some part of the redress. The second is that it isnt appropriate to award anything 
regarding the tax liability Mr H may have incurred. I will deal with each of these in turn.
The other firms
Wealthmasters has suggested that the firm that provided the pension suitability report should 
be responsible for part of the redress. It has also referred to the administrators of the SIPP. 
My role is to consider the complaint made against Wealthmasters and make a fair and 
reasonable decision about that complaint. It is not appropriate for me to make findings about 
any other firm where no complaint about that firm has been made. It is also not part of my 
role to tell Mr H that he has to make a complaint against another firm before I will consider 
this complaint.
Furthermore, the firm that provided the pension suitability report is no longer trading, as I 
said in my second provisional decision and as Wealthmasters is aware. As such, any claim 
in relation to that firm could not be made to our service anyway but would instead have to be 
made to the FSCS.
Wealthmasters has asked why an FSCS claim hasnt been made on behalf of Mr H. 
However, there is no requirement for Mr H to have made a claim to the FSCS and I cannot 
require him to do so, as I have already said. I also think it is important to note that it is a fund 
of last resort and as such a claim should only be made to it if there is no other avenue to 
follow.
That isnt the case here, as I have found that Wealthmasters is responsible both for the 
advice to invest in Elysian Fuels and for Mr H then putting the shares in his SIPP. As such I 
am not persuaded it would be appropriate for him to pursue a complaint through the FSCS in 
any case. 
In short, I am satisfied that Wealthmasters is responsible for Mr H investing in an unsuitable 
investment and in that investment ending up in his SIPP. I cannot say if other firms that are 
not the subject of any complaint referred to our service may also be responsible for part of 
that same loss and I am not required to do so. Having made the findings that I have it is fair and reasonable that Wealthmasters pays Mr H the redress that arises from those findings.
I note it has said I should require Mr S to assign his right to pursue those other firms to it. I 
am not satisfied such a direction is appropriate for me to make - especially in relation to the 
firm that is no longer trading, given what I have said about the inappropriateness of a claim 
to the FSCS.
The tax liability
I note what Wealthmasters has said about the tax liability, although it has not provided a 
copy of the advice itself. It says that the advice it has received is that as HMRC has not 
concluded its investigation Mr H has not incurred any liability and has suffered no loss and 
that there is no liability until the matter is finalised by HMRC. This is something that has been 
considered by our service and the redress I have set out is based on our approach.
Wealthmasters argument comes down to it saying that as HMRC has not concluded its 
enquiries Mr H doesnt have to pay anything and therefore he has suffered no loss. 
However, HMRC have made a without prejudice offer to Mr H to settle his potential tax 
liability. So, I think the question I need to consider is whether it is unreasonable for Mr H to 
accept that offer and make payment to HMRC to conclude matters with it. 
I am not satisfied that it is unreasonable to reach agreement with HMRC where there is an 
ongoing issue over the tax payable and the potential that a greater amount could be payable 
if agreement isnt reached. 
If HMRC at some later date determine that there is no tax liability or that the tax liability is 
less than what Mr H has paid but he cannot claim anything back, he will still be out of pocket 
by the amount her has paid to HMRC. S, in the circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable 
that this forms part of the redress payable.
Putting things right
 Wealthmasters  should  calculate  the following:
Notional  position  = A+B where:
A= Value  of Mr H's SIPP  if the money  used  to purchase  shares  in Elysian  Fuels  had instead  
been  invested  in funds  in line with the FTSE  ALL Share  Index  at the date of calculation.  I 
think  this is an appropriate  benchmark  to use given  Mr H's circumstances  and risk appetite.
B = The value  of Mr H's initial  contribution  of £10,458  to Elysian  Fuels  which  he would  have  
retained  if he hadn't  invested  in the scheme.
Actual  position=  C+D+E-  F where:
C = Value  of current  pension.
As the investment  held in the SIPP  is illiquid  (so cannot  be readily  sold on the open  
market),  it may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the investment.  So, I think  it is 
reasonable  to assume  the investment  has no current  value  and there  is no 
prospect  of any future  return.  On that basis  it is fair to make  no allowance  for a 
current  or future  value.  For that reason,  the actual  value  should  be assumed  to be 
nil.D = Value  of any interest  Mr H held in the LLP.  I consider  this value  to be nil and I do not 
think  there  is any reasonable  prospect  of his interest  having  any value  in the future.
E = Current  value  of the money  released  to Mr H from the sale of Elysian  shares  by him to 
the SIPP.  As explained  above  Mr H will need  to provide  evidence  to establish  how much  the 
money  released  and invested  in a property  is now worth.
F = The amount  Mr H has been  asked  to pay HMRC  above  the tax he would  have  been  
expected  to pay if he had invested  differently  and drawn  his benefits  in future.  To be clear  
this includes  any interest  applied  by HMRC  up to the date of my final decision.  In addition,  
any tax due as a result  of Mr H's interest  in the LLP.
If the notional  value  is greater  than the actual  value,  then Mr H has suffered  a loss (after  
allowing  for future  taxation)  equal  to the difference
In addition,  it should  pay Mr H £300  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Undertakings
Mr H should  undertake  to pay the amount  put forward  by HMRC   either  in settlement  of his 
tax liability  or as a payment  on account   if the full amount  of compensation  is paid to him.
Mr H should  provide  Wealthmasters  with an undertaking  to pay to it any amount  of refund  he 
receives  from HMRC,  following  the conclusion  of its investigations,  in the event  that it 
concludes  less tax is due than Mr H has already  paid to it.
Wealthmasters  should  undertake  to pay Mr H additional  money  if, following  the conclusion  of 
HMRC's  investigations,  it concludes  he has to pay more  in tax than he has paid on account.
The undertakings  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be incurred  on drawing  the 
receipt  from the SIPP.  Wealthmasters  must  meet  any costs  of drawing  up the undertakings.
Where  I uphold  a complaint,  I can make  a money  award  requiring  a financial  business  to pay 
compensation  of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and/or  costs  that I consider  appropriate.  
If I consider  that fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000,  I may recommend  that 
Wealthmasters  pays  the balance.
My final decision
I uphold  the complaint  for the reasons  I have  set out above  and in my provisional  decisions.  
I consider  that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as set out above.
Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd should  provide  details  of its calculations  to Mr H 
in a clear  and simple  format.
My decision  is that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd should  pay the amount  
produced  by that calculation  up to the maximum  of £150,000  (including  the amount  payable  
for distress  and inconvenience  but excluding  costs)  plus interest  at 8% per year simple  from 
the date of my final decision  if the award  is not settled  with 28 days  of Wealthmasters  
Financial  Management  Ltd receipt  of Mr H's acceptance  of that decision.
If an undertaking  results  in a future  sum being  owed  to Mr H by Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Ltd which  would  take the total compensation  payable  to him above  £150,000,  
it is required  only to pay the extra  sum to Mr H up to the maximum  of £150,000  as above.Recommendation:  If the total amount  produced  by the calculation  of fair compensation  
above  exceeds  £150,000,  I recommend  that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd pays  
Mr H the balance  plus any interest  on the balance  as set out above.
If an undertaking  results  in a future  sum being  owed  to Mr H by Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Ltd which  would  take the total compensation  payable  to him above  £150,000,  I 
recommend  that Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd should  pay the balance  as 
above.
However,  if the compensation  Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd needs  to pay Mr H 
now already  exceeds  £150,000,  and it does  not accept  my recommendation,  it is not 
required  to provide  him with an undertaking  to pay him more  as per the scenario  outlined  
above.
If Mr H accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  is binding  on Wealthmasters  Financial  
Management  Ltd, but my recommendation  is not. Further,  it's unlikely  that Mr H can accept  
my decision  and go to court  to ask for the balance.
Mr H should  also be aware  that by accepting  my decision,  it could  affect  his legal  rights  
should  any liabilities  arise  in respect  of the limited  recourse  loan he used  to purchase  the 
shares  or otherwise.  So, Mr H may want  to consider  getting  independent  legal  advice  before  
deciding  whether  to accept  this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman