DRN-2289801
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to AXA in my decision as the business that sold the PPI.
Mr B says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr B took out with a store card in December 2004. It 
was added to his account when he applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mr B mainly told us no checks were done despite him saying he wasnt employed at the 
time. He also had a medical condition when he took out the policy. And he told us that PPI 
was added without his knowledge or consent and said that if it had been made optional he 
wouldve declined it as it wasnt something he wanted to pay for.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold the complaint. She said the 
policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem Mr B 
already had when he bought the policy and Mr B had mentioned having a life-long condition. 
So if he needed to claim for this, he wouldn't have been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt it was important that Mr B had understood this so he could make a 
proper choice about taking out the PPI. But she didn't think that AXA did enough to make 
this policy restriction clear to Mr B - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mr B 
would've taken the policy out.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  
In summary, it said that Mr B hadnt provided information to show that his medical condition 
was a good enough reason on its own to say the policy wasnt suitable for him.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont feel I've seen enough 
information to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of Mr Bs completed store card application. Mr B has signed in the 
PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mr B wouldve first read through anything he was asked to 
sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mr B to say if he wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mr B also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that he 
must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, he 
has forgotten this now. 
On balance, I think Mr B was aware the policy was optional and he chose to take it out.
AXA shouldve given Mr B enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for him. 
But as it didnt personally recommend the PPI to him, it was up to Mr B to think about what 
the policy offered compared to the potential consequences not having any insurance against 
the risk of not being able to work  and decide for himself if PPI was something he wanted to 
have.  
Its possible some information AXA gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mr B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mr B told us he wasnt employed when he signed up for the card and the PPI. But looking at 
the policy wording, it wasnt a requirement for him to be in work in order to be eligible for the 
policy. And as far as I can see he met all the eligibility requirements for the policy  so this 
isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
And based on what hes also told us about how much being in employment has always 
mattered to him, and how little time hes ever been off work, Ive seen nothing to make me 
think he had been (or thought it likely he would be) unemployed for long. I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mr B expected to make his store card monthly repayments out of 
money he earned as he told us he had no other way to pay his monthly outgoings if he 
wasnt working. I dont expect him to be able to remember after all this time, but possibly he 
was waiting to start a new job when he applied for his store card or he was expecting quickly 
to find work without difficulty. 
So, I can see why Mr B mightve wanted to set up the policy if he was expecting to be back 
in work soon (and nothing hes said makes me think that was unlikely or it didnt happen).  
The policy couldve paid out for as long as Mr B was off work sick or if Mr B lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve 
cleared the card balance if Mr B wasnt able to go back to work. 
Mr B wouldnt have been covered for a medical condition he was aware of during the 
12 months before the PPI start date that might cause him to claim for disability. 
Mr B told us his medical condition was diagnosed in childhood. So looking at the policy 
wording, its likely that he probably wouldnt have been covered for absence from work due 
to his condition.
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when he arranged the PPI, Mr B had any reason to 
think that his condition was likely to affect his ability to work. I say this because, from what 
hes told us, it looks like Mr B is able to manage his condition effectively day to day and it doesnt keep him off work. He told us hes only ever had a few days off at most  and he 
actually prefers to work as it helps him stay well. 
Mr B doesnt appear to have needed to take any significant time off work because of his 
condition before he took out the PPI. 
This means I dont think Mr B wouldve had any reason to think hed be likely to need to 
claim on the policy as a direct result of his condition. 
As it seems he had no other way to pay his store card if he wasnt working I think the policy 
still offered him useful protection as it wouldve covered absence from work due to accident 
or any sickness unrelated to his condition. 
Mr B wouldve been able to make a claim under the unemployment part of the policy after 
hed been in work for 6 months in a row. Thats a fairly standard policy condition. 
Thinking about what Mr B has told us about how important being employed in a job is to his 
long term health I think its unlikely he wouldve wanted to be out of work for very long. And 
I havent seen anything to make me think that even if he wasnt working when he took out 
the PPI that this was normal for him or his long-term situation. 
So I think its fair to say that there werent any significant or long term reasons why Mr B 
wouldnt have been able to take advantage of being able to make an unemployment claim if 
hed needed to.
For these reasons, I dont think its likely that having clearer information about the policys 
limitations and exclusions for an existing medical condition or the fact he couldnt claim 
straightaway for unemployment wouldve put Mr B off taking it out. 
So I cant fairly say that hes lost out as a result of paying for the policy. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mr B clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have 
wanted it at the time. And Mr B indicated on the application form that he was happy to pay to 
have it. 
Thinking about everything Ive seen and been told, given the benefits PPI offered Mr B in his 
particular circumstances, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. I hope the way Ive set out the reasons will help him understand 
how Ive come to my view.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both parties have told me that they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman