DRN-4230854
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Blevins Franks Financial Management Limited failed to provide 
full costs relating to investment advice it provided. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D reside in mainland Europe. In 2015 Blevins Franks made an initial 
recommendation of an investment portfolio to them. They committed £170,000 at the outset 
and added a further £600,000 the following year. The advisory relationship continued 
through until 2021, at which point Mr and Mrs D raised concerns about the advice.
Although the complaint initially covered several areas, the primary issue in dispute that Im 
considering here concerns the underlying charges for funds held in the portfolio. Mr and 
Mrs D feel these shouldve been explicitly disclosed to them, along with the other charges 
applied by Blevins Franks relating to the advice. More specifically, they question why Blevins 
Franks failed to provide Key Investor information Documents (KIID), which wouldve shown 
these fund-related costs. 
Blevins Franks didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. It said, in brief 
Having reviewed the provision of information to Mr and Mrs D it was satisfied it had 
made all disclosures required under the relevant regulatory regimes at the time.
In this respect, there was no requirement at the time of the advice for KIID or other 
similar documents to be provided.
The relevant terms of business stated that Blevins Franks may receive payment from 
fees charged by the fund managers.    
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt feel it should be 
upheld. He looked at the general charging information about Blevins Franks services that 
had been provided to Mr and Mrs D and was satisfied the fees had been applied correctly. 
But he acknowledged that their primary cause for concern was with the fund charges and the 
lack of KIID. In that respect, he was satisfied thered been no requirement for the provision of 
that type of information at the time of the advice  prior to the implementation of the 
Insurance Distribution Directive in 2018.  
The investigator also noted Blevins Franks reference to its terms covering the possibility of it 
receiving fees from fund managers and while acknowledging that Mr and Mrs D saw this as 
unfair, he didnt feel able to conclude that Blevins Franks had acted outside of its terms 
when advising them. It had confirmed the difference between fees deducted from the 
portfolio and fees taken at the fund level, which it didnt consider to be an additional charge 
for Mr and Mrs D, and he felt this was a fair explanation.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy. They felt that KIID shouldve been supplied, for 
transparency and fairness (in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles), 
even where there may not have been a regulatory requirement to do so. They provided 
some examples of how charges were communicated by other providers, which they felt were 
clearer. They maintained the charges had been taken without their consent or knowledge. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ds ongoing concerns but wasnt persuaded to 
change his opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to 
review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consideration of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint had been ongoing for some considerable time, 
not least because of various jurisdiction matters that have arisen. I appreciate their patience 
and also note their strength of feeling about the matter. But, while I recognise theyll be very 
disappointed, I find Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator  that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, and for broadly the same reasons.  
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration and recognise that feel they were deliberately 
deceived by Blevins Franks. But Ive seen nothing that persuades me that was the case. Im 
satisfied that the actions of Blevins Franks were in line with the regulatory regime applicable, 
given Mr and Mrs D were resident outside the UK and, importantly, when the advice was 
provided.
The regulatory requirement for advisers to provide KIID in Mr and Mrs Ds country of 
residence didnt apply at the time they made their investments in 2015. The regulations that 
impacted upon what businesses needed to do in this respect  MiFID 2, PRIIPs regulation 
and the Insurance Mediation Directive  didnt come into force until 2018, some years after 
they were advised. The situation may have been different had they been residing in the UK 
at the time in question, but in reaching a fair conclusion I must consider Mr and Mrs Ds 
particular circumstances. 
Clearly, the introduction of new rules and regulations (whether in the UK or in Europe) that 
were specifically designed to increase transparency concerning communication of various 
charges shows that there was an acknowledgement that the existing requirements werent 
as clear as they couldve been, and this was resulting in poor outcomes for investors. But, 
while Ive noted Mr and Mrs D comments about fairness and the FCA principles, I dont feel I 
can reasonably hold Blevins Franks to a standard that wasnt in place when the advice was 
given. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman