DRN-4442039
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not fairly compensate him 
after he complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr R has some other complaints with us about his credit cards. Just to be clear, this decision 
is about the RBS card ending 86.
What happened
PPI appears to have been sold to Mr R at the same time he took this credit card out in 2003.
It looks as though Mr R may have run into financial difficulties in around 2005. I understand 
he tried to make a claim on the PPI policy at that time, but the claim was rejected. The PPI 
policy appears to have been cancelled at around that time as well.
Mr R complained to RBS about the sale of PPI back in 2019. RBS accepted it had mis-sold 
the PPI policy and it offered to pay £1,191.54 to compensate Mr R for that mis-sale.
Sometime later, RBS said it had looked again at Mr Rs account. It said it thought the 2005 
PPI claim should have been paid. On that basis, it offered to refund what should have been 
paid for the claim, along with 8% simple interest per year.
On 14 November 2022, RBS ultimately calculated Mr Rs total PPI compensation for this 
card to be £47,447.34. RBS said £27,143.91 of that amount had been calculated as net 
simple interest to compensate Mr R for the time hed been out of pocket. RBS also said that 
there was an outstanding balance on Mr Rs credit card. So, it used £19,890.28 of the 
compensation to repay the outstanding debt. It paid £27,557.06 directly to Mr R on              
17 November 2022.
Mr R had been in touch with RBS because he didnt think any deductions should have been 
taken from his compensation. He said RBS had told him that the debt was statute-barred. In 
other words, it was too late for RBS to take any action to recover the outstanding balance on 
his credit card. I understand RBS later said it made a mistake in telling Mr R the debts were 
statute barred.
Mr R complained to this service. He didnt think RBS should have deducted anything from 
the offer of compensation. He said RBS had assured him that it would not take any 
deductions because the debt was statute barred. He raised several customer service issues 
with RBS and said he thought he should be compensated for that poor service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He said he thought it was fair for RBS to use some 
of Mr Rs compensation to pay off the outstanding balance of the credit card. Mr R did not 
accept that view and reiterated the customer service difficulties hed had when he was trying 
to sort his complaint out.
As Mr R did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I said: 
 Looking through the file and upon listening to the call Mr R had with our service 
on 10 October 2023, I am very sorry to hear about the impact all of this has had on 
Mr Rs health.
I have considered all of the issues raised by Mr R very carefully. I know he will be 
disappointed with my decision, but as things stand, Im afraid I dont intend to uphold 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing I need to make clear is that the offer RBS made to Mr R on 14 
November 2022 wasnt because PPI was mis-sold. RBS had already agreed that the 
PPI should never have been sold to Mr R in the first place and it paid compensation 
for that back in 2019.
The offer RBS made to Mr R on 14 November 2022 was because it looked again at 
the rejected PPI claim Mr R made back in 2005. RBS now says this claim should 
have been paid at that time.
So, Ive thought carefully about whether it was fair for RBS to keep some of this 
compensation to pay back what it said was an outstanding balance on Mr Rs credit 
card.
As I said above, RBS said that in November 2022, there was an outstanding balance 
of £19,890.28 on Mr Rs credit card. It provided us with some of Mr Rs account data. 
Looking at that information, it looks as though Mr R ran into some difficulty paying his 
credit card in 2005. I can see that Mr R did make quite a few payments towards his 
balance after that time. But after considering all of the data carefully, Im satisfied 
there was an outstanding balance of £19,890.28 when RBS made its offer to Mr R on 
14 November 2022.
I know RBS told Mr R that the outstanding balance was statute barred and it could 
not take action to recover it. But even if Mr Rs debt was statute barred, that doesnt 
mean the outstanding balance had disappeared  Mr R would still have owed that 
money even if RBS had left it too late to take court action to get it back.
Mr R told us that RBS also said it wouldnt recover any money from his 
compensation. I dont doubt that this is Mr Rs honest recollection of the 
conversation, however it is not clear when RBS said this. But looking at all the 
paperwork, the offer letter of 17 November 2022 does say that a deduction will be 
made from the compensation to clear the outstanding credit card balance.
In a situation like this, we generally say that where two people  or a person and a 
business  owe each other money, it is fair that they each pay what they owe. So, in 
this case, when RBS calculated Mr Rs compensation, it worked out it owed him 
some money. But as there was still an outstanding balance on his credit card, Mr R 
also owed RBS some money. In that situation, I think it is fair for RBS to keep back 
enough of the compensation to pay off the outstanding balance on Mr Rs credit card 
account.
I think thats especially so in this case as RBS decided to pay compensation to Mr R 
because it thought his PPI claim should have been paid in 2005. So, if things had 
gone as they should have done back in 2005, Mr Rs credit card balance would have 
been settled at that time. I think its unlikely any of the claim would have been paid 
directly to Mr R.
With all of these things in mind, my provisional view is that it is fair for RBS to keep 
some of Mr Rs compensation back to settle the outstanding balance on his credit 
card.
I know Mr R feels very strongly that RBS should pay him further compensation for all 
the trouble he was put to in making a significant number of calls in connection to his 
complaint. It is clear from listening to the call of 10 October 2023 that dealing with 
RBS has caused Mr R a great deal of stress. In addition to that, I do appreciate that 
Mr R would have also spent a lot of time corresponding with RBS trying to get his 
complaint sorted out.Ive thought really carefully about this aspect of Mr Rs complaint, but as things stand, 
I dont think it would be fair for me to tell RBS to pay any more compensation here.
Thats because the compensation RBS paid to Mr R is significantly more generous 
than it needed to pay. As I said above, RBS calculated net simple interest in this 
case to be over £27,000 and it paid this amount to Mr R in November 2022. 
However, I would only expect simple interest to be paid to Mr R where he had been 
out of pocket because of a mistake made by RBS.
What that means in practice is that RBS would only need to pay simple interest to   
Mr R from the point his credit card balance was repaid in full. However, in this case, 
there appears to have been an outstanding balance on the credit card until 18 
November 2022.
Mr R told us that he thought simple interest had accrued on money that was payable 
to him. But RBS would only need to pay simple interest if Mr R had paid extra to pay 
off his credit card. I cant say Mr R had to pay extra to pay off the credit card in full 
because there was an outstanding balance until November 2022. In those 
circumstances, RBS didnt need to pay simple interest from 2005.
Putting all of that together, RBS appears to have paid Mr R over £27,000 in simple 
interest from 2005, which is several thousands of pounds more than it needed to pay. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr R would have known RBS had paid a lot more than it 
needed to when he brought his complaint  I wouldnt expect him to be aware of the 
intricate details in how RBS calculates compensation in a case like this. I can see 
why he would have thought RBSs calculation was right.
But as RBS does seem to have paid several thousands of pounds more than it 
needed to pay, I dont think it would be fair for me to make a further award to 
compensate Mr R for the customer service issues he may have encountered when 
pursuing his complaint.
In the call between Mr R and our service on 10 October 2023, he referred to the tax 
RBS had deducted from the simple interest. HM Revenue and Customs expects RBS 
to deduct tax from simple interest. However, if Mr R doesnt need to pay tax, he may 
be able to claim that money back from HM Revenue and Customs.
Putting all of this together, my provisional view is that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
RBS to take any further action to put things right for Mr R.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. RBS said it had no further comments. Mr R 
responded by phone and I have listened to a recording of that call from 2 November 2023. I 
have also considered Mr Rs email to our service of 2 November 2023.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr R feels very strongly about his case, but I am afraid after considering the 
additional representations at some length, I have not upheld the complaint. 
I note from Mr Rs email of 2 November 2023 that he said RBS should and could 
compensate [him] for the trauma caused due to them mis-selling [PPI]. However, I need to 
make clear that the issue before me is not about whether PPI was mis-sold to Mr R. RBS 
issued its final response about the mis-sale back in 2019. The issue before me is about the 
compensation RBS paid to Mr R in 2022 after it said his PPI claim was wrongly rejected in 
2005. I have listened to the telephone call between Mr R and this service on 2 November 2023. I 
note that Mr R said it was not for me to determine whether RBS had paid him more than it 
needed to. I also note from Mr Rs email that he said he was seeking compensation for the 
time hed taken to pursue his complaint and for the upset RBS caused him. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mr R told us about the customer service issues he 
experienced. However, when I am considering whether to make an award, I must determine 
what I consider to be fair compensation after taking account of all the circumstances in the 
complaint. Im satisfied that the amount of compensation RBS already paid to Mr R is highly 
relevant and it is something I should consider when deciding a fair outcome to this matter. 
I do appreciate what Mr R told us about the calls he said hed made to RBS and that he was 
put to some upset and inconvenience in pursuing his complaint. However, I explained in my 
provisional decision why I thought RBS had refunded considerably more than it needed to. 
When balancing this against the customer service issues Mr R had with RBS, I am not 
satisfied that it would be fair to require RBS to pay further compensation here. 
I am sorry that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above 
and in my provisional decision, I have not upheld the complaint. I do not require RBS to take 
any further action in this matter. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman