DRN-4040398
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC (previously known as Hitachi Capital 
(UK) PLC) trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions treated him unfairly by charging him 
additional sums at the end of his car hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr S entered into a three year car hire agreement with Novuna in May 2019. The first hire 
payment was £987 followed by 35 monthly instalments of £329 (all figures rounded). 
Novuna remained the owner of the car throughout the agreement and Mr S was paying for 
the use of it. 
When the agreement ended, the car was returned to Novuna. It was inspected by a third 
party agent who found some damage. The agent estimated the cost of repairing and 
refinishing the car at £1,228.62.
Mr S complained to Novuna that the damage set out in the report was over-stated and 
the repair estimate was inflated. Novuna reviewed the inspection report and removed 
one charge of £75. It said while the damage was visible in a photograph the extent of it 
wasnt evident. This reduced the amount owing to £1,153.62. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into things. They found that the charges had been correctly applied 
and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with these findings. He said that the third party agent had been over 
zealous and found areas of damage which were minor and couldnt really be seen by the 
naked eye. Prior to the inspection Mr S had noted some areas of damage and obtained 
repair quotes. He later sourced quotes for repairs to the damage noted in the inspection 
report which were lower than the report estimates. He asked Novuna for the opportunity 
to repair the car but this wasnt accepted.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a final decision, and 
its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the finance agreement. Clause 3.1(b) of the agreement stated that 
Mr S would be responsible for any damage to the car other than fair wear and tear as per 
industry guidelines. The agreement documentation explained that in determining fair wear 
and tear Novuna would apply recognised industry standards published by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). In its final response to Mr S it said that it sent him 
a copy of these guidelines three months before the end of the agreement. So I think Mr S 
was fully informed about his liabilities for damage prior to the collection of the car.
Ive reviewed the inspection report which listed 12 separate damage charges. The damage 
involved scratches, dents, scuffs and corrosion in the paintwork and wheels and a cut in one 
of the tyres. As mentioned, Novuna waived one of the charges as the photographic evidence 
in the report wasnt clear. Ive compared the report evidence with the BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guide and have concluded that the damage noted would be considered unacceptable 
damage as set out in the guide. So I cant find that Novuna was wrong to consider these as 
chargeable damages as per the agreement terms and the industry guidelines. 
Mr S said that the estimates for repairing and refinishing set out in the report were higher 
than the estimates he obtained. He told us that he obtained quotes of £450 from his 
repairers by telephone after sending them a copy of the inspection report. Mr S has no 
written record or detailed breakdown of this estimate. Altogether, I cant say that the 
estimates Novuna obtained are unreasonable. 
Finally, Mr S said that he wasnt given the opportunity to carry out the repairs. As Novuna 
said and Mr S has not disputed, he was provided with a copy of the BVRLA guidelines three 
months prior to the end of the agreement and could have inspected the car and considered 
his repair options before the car was returned. I cant find that Novuna treated him unfairly by 
not releasing the car to him for repair once collected.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S but having considered all the available 
information I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK PLC trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions. I dont require it to take any further 
action regarding this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman