DRN-3244973
The complaint
The estate of Mr B is unhappy that Allay Claims Limited are asking for their success fee for a
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim made in Mr Bs name.
 
What happened
Miss F is the executor for her late husband, Mr B. Miss F said from July 2019 she started
getting text messages and emails addressed to her late husband from Allay saying hed PPI
and that theyd made a claim for him. Miss F said she was on holiday at the time but on her
return, she emailed Allay and told them that her husband had died in 2016. She asked them
to stop contacting her. 
Allay asked her to send them Mr Bs death certificate, which Miss F said she did. But despite 
this Allay continued to bombard her with messages and asked her to pay their success 
fees when redress was awarded to Mr B by his lender. She complained to Allay.
Allay said a letter of authority (LoA) was signed in July 2019 instructing them to look into a
PPI claim for Mr B. And that the contact details given were those of Miss F. The LoA was
accepted by Mr Bs lender and they updated Miss F when PPI was found. When Miss F told
them her husband had passed away, they asked for a copy of the death certificate which
they said they only received in November 2019, after one of Mr Bs claims was successful.
Allay said their success fee was justified as theyd acted in good faith in submitting the LoA
to Mr Bs lender and pursuing his PPI claim based on the information provided to them in the
initial application.
Miss F wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Allay hadnt been authorised to act on behalf of Mr B and so they
couldnt charge their fee. He also asked Allay to pay Miss F £750 for the trouble and upset
caused to her.
Allay didnt agree, they said the application had Miss Fs contact details which suggested
shed submitted the claim for Mr B as his executor. As the claim was successful Miss F, as
the beneficiary should pay their fee. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 that said:
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the LoA completed and signed in July 2019. The LoA is in the name of
the late Mr B. The applicants details were pre-printed on the LoA by Allay and to be
submitted a digital signature was added to it. But it doesnt mention that Mr B was deceased.
Nor does it mention anyone acting as an executor for him.
Allay has said that the contact details given were those of Miss F. I can see the same
contact details have been given to us. So, I dont think Allay would have been aware at the
time of the application that Mr B was deceased, and they submitted the claims to Mr Bs
lender(s) in good faith.
But as Mr B died in 2016, for a PPI claim to have been made in August 2019, it would have
had to have been made on behalf of the estate of Mr B. For Allay to have been authorised to
pursue a PPI claim for Mr B they would have needed a LoA that correctly reflected the claim
being made. The LoA would have needed to have shown both, Mr Bs name and that of the
person acting for the estate, in this case Miss F.
When making the online application, the applicant in signing the LoA is agreeing to Allays
terms and conditions. But as I outlined above the only applicant named on the LoA is Mr B,
and it wasnt possible for him to agree to Allays terms and conditions or to sign the LoA.
What I would have expected is when Allay was made aware that Mr B had died theyd have
asked Miss F to complete a LoA on behalf of the estate of Mr B. And by doing this the estate
would, if they signed the LoA, have agreed to Allays terms and conditions. But I cant see
that Allay did this. And as Allay didnt have a LoA signed on behalf of the estate of Mr B, I
dont think their terms and conditions had been agreed to. So, I dont think Allay was
authorised to act for Mr B to pursue a PPI claim, and so they cant charge their success fee
for his claim(s).
Our investigator said Allay should also compensate Miss F for the trouble and upset caused
to her. Whilst I dont doubt that Miss F has suffered significant distress and inconvenience
dealing with this issue, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Miss
F as the estate of Mr B, isnt entitled to any compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In the circumstances, awarding Miss F £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
wasnt correct. I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset
experienced by its customer, not by a third party.
I understand Miss F will be disappointed by my decision and I agree that Allay should have
taken a more proactive approach after finding out Mr B had died, preventing further
communications being sent out addressed to him. But as Miss F was acting as an executor
on the claim, this means we wouldnt be able to award compensation for the distress she
suffered in having to deal with the claim. The reason for this is because the complainant in
this case is the estate. So, I wont be recommending any compensation for the trouble and
upset caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties have provided additional comments for me to consider. 
Miss F, through her representative says 
the provisional decision doesnt address key elements of the complaint. That being 
the destruction of data held by Allay about Miss F and the late Mr B. And an 
undertaking by Allay to stop any further communication with her;
the sentence  Allay didnt agree, they said the application had Miss Fs contact 
details which suggested shed submitted the claim for Mr B as his executor should 
be removed. As this implied Miss F had used her late husbands details and 
signature to submit the claim. Which with the sentence  .they submitted the claims 
to Mr Bs lender(s) in good faith, gives the impression that this was the case, and 
the decision should make reference to the specific provision of the rule/legislation 
that  prevents the award of compensation to Miss F because the complainant is the 
estate. Allay have asked for the below comments to be considered:
they cannot be held responsible for loved ones inputting details on behalf of 
deceased clients, nor was this encouraged or asked of potential clients during the 
onboarding process; 
the lenders process would routinely have returned a Pre-sub response advising that 
the client was deceased and requesting a new LoA and relevant documentation. The 
lender failed to do this. The lender did not advise that the client was deceased at Pre-
sub response stage, which is the correct procedure;
as the lender auto converted the positive Pre-sub response to a mis-sold PPI claim, 
this gave Allay no opportunity to gather the relevant documentation and new LoA 
with Miss Fs details;
the lender compounded their mistake and issued the win letter to the deceased 
client, only subsequently resending this with the correct details in order for Miss F to 
obtain the funds;
the lender corresponded with Allay about this matter due to the LoA they provided 
and the initial submission into Pre-sub; 
clear and sound instruction has been given to Miss F on how to suitably close these 
claims, yet Miss F failed to do so. This lack of interaction from Miss F meant the 
collections process continued, until an instruction is given to change the claims 
course of action;
the clients estate has benefited from Allays submission of the claim and Miss F is the 
main beneficiary. It was Miss Fs details , email address, telephone number, that 
were used to provide the information at the outset and Miss Fs details used 
throughout the process. They were able to demonstrate that the opt in shows 
personal details pertaining to the deceased client, that could only have been provided 
from someone with knowledge of this information; and
they believe Miss F had knowingly instructed them on behalf of the estate of the 
deceased and benefitted from doing so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking from the provisional 
decision.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. 
Both parties feel strongly about what has happened, Miss F is adamant she didnt complete 
the details on the LoA. And Allay are adamant that someone close to Mr B, whod know his 
personal details would have had to complete the application. And given that it was Miss Fs 
details that were given feel strongly, as the beneficiary of the estate that it was most likely 
she who completed the application. Where there is a different version of events as is the 
case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
Its not in dispute that a LoA was completed and submitted in the name of the late Mr B. But I 
cant know who completed that application, so I wont comment further on this. As I outlined 
in my provisional decision, the LoA was solely in the name of the late Mr B, and that any signature on the LoA couldnt have been his. So, Im satisfied that Allay werent authorised 
by Mr B, himself, to submit the LoA to his lenders. But I dont think Allay, at the time would 
have known from the information in the application that Mr B had died in 2016. So, I dont 
think theyd any reason to question the LoA wasnt a valid authorisation to them to provide 
their services, and they submitted the LoA to Mr Bs lenders. 
I can understand Allays point that on the submission of the LoA the lender should have 
identified that this wasnt a valid LoA as the late Mr B couldnt have signed it. But the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI claims to 
be made. And with the approach of the deadline there were high volumes of PPI complaints 
raised, so I think its understandable that there was a potential for some verification errors to 
have been made at this time. But Miss F, acting for the estate of Mr B cant be held 
responsible for an error made by the lender.
Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies amended their 
terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. And reflected that 
lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any further information 
such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI 
policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for 
mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI 
claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. But for others they asked 
for a wet signature and for the PPI questionnaire to be completed . Any claim received after the 
29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were 
exceptional circumstances for doing so.
And I can see that the LoA submitted by Allay was auto converted by the lender so there wasnt 
a requirement for Allay to get any further information for the mis-sold PPI claim to progress. If 
there had been it would have, I think shown that Mr B couldnt have made the claim. But I can 
also see that from August 2019 Miss F questioned Allays actions and had tried to get the claim 
cancelled before any redress was awarded. Allay has said Miss F hadnt followed clear and 
sound instruction. But Miss F had sent them Mr Bs death certificate and Allay confirmed receipt 
in November 2019, so they would have been aware that Mr B couldnt have signed the LoA in 
July 2019 that theyd submitted to the lender. After becoming aware that Mr B had died, I think 
Allay in trying to keep an active involvement in the claim chased for additional information, for 
example grant of probate, for this purpose rather than asking and explaining to Miss F about 
whether she wanted to make a claim on behalf of the estate. So, Im satisfied Allay wasnt 
authorised to act for Mr B to pursue a PPI claim, and so they cant charge their success fee 
for his claim(s).
I sympathise with Miss Fs situation and do appreciate how difficult this has been for her.  If we 
decide a financial business has done something wrong, and the complainant has lost out as a 
result, an important part of our role is to say how the business should put right the impact of its 
mistake. The rules we follow are provided by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These rules 
are set out in a section of the FCAs Handbook called Dispute Resolution: Complaints
( DISP). DISP 3.7, sets out our power to put things right  which includes making money 
awards (at DISP 3.7.2R). This is where a complaint is ddetermined in favour of the complainant, 
all eligible complainants are set out under DISP 2.7.3R.
A complaint can be brought on behalf of a deceased person that would have been an eligible 
complainant by those authorised to do so in law. Thats usually the estates executors or 
personal representatives. But we couldnt compensate the executor or personal representative 
personally for any impact incurred by them, when representing the estate. As the estate of Mr B 
is the only eligible complainant in this case, I can only consider redress for the estate, and have 
asked Allay to waive their fee. But as the distress and inconvenience was to Miss F and not to Mr 
B, I cant award any compensation for distress and inconvenience to her. I could only make an award for distress and inconvenience to the estate of Mr B, if hed suffered distress and 
inconvenience whilst he was alive. As he didnt, I cant make an award to his estate.
Miss F has asked that all data held by Allay about her and Mr B should be destroyed. Under 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) there is the right to get personal data removed 
thats also known as the right to erasure. But its not for me to direct Allay to destroy the data 
they hold about Miss F and Mr B. Miss F can ask Allay to delete that data and they should do so 
unless an exemption in data protection law applies. An exemption could be because Allay is 
legally obliged to keep hold of the data such as to comply with financial or other regulations. So, 
this is a matter that should be decided upon between Miss F, as the executor for Mr B and Allay. 
As Im asking Allay to waive their fee, I cant see any further need for Allay to communicate with 
Miss F about this other than to confirm theyve waived their fee should Miss F accept my 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Allay Claims Limited to waive their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman