DRN-2943560
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) didnt ensure his annuity was 
set up in-line with his contractual right to payment. 
What happened
Mr C had three section 226 Retirement annuity policies with Aegon. Two of the plans were 
issued with the same Policy Conditions booklet, the third, whilst using a different Policy 
Conditions booklet, shared much of the same terms. All three said that on retirement:
In 2017, Aegon decided to stop providing annuity contracts for new customers. It agreed with 
Legal & General to transfer its annuity business to it. This proposal required high court 
approval and Aegon set out this proposal to its customers. Within this letter it said a number 
of times that customers wont be adversely affected and there will be no change to 
contractual terms. Below is an extract from the summary included in the letter:
Mr C notified Aegon on 3 April 2019 of his intention for his pension date to be 12 May 2019 
(his 65th birthday) and so the first payment according to the policy conditions would be 12 
May 2020. Mr C notified Aegon within the notice period set out in the Policy Conditions 
booklet.
Mr C then contacted L&G and told them of his intention to retire on 12 May 2019 and send it 
the documents it required on 24 April. L&G said it then contacted Aegon to communicate this 
to it  and Aegon confirmed it wouldnt disinvest the money until 12 May 2019.
Aegon sent Mr C a letter on 26 April to say the bank details it had received from L&G were 
different to the ones it held  so it wanted confirmation these were correct to pay the tax-free 
cash. Mr C rang to confirm these details on May 2. Aegon paid the tax-free cash and sent 
the money over to L&G on 15 May (it says this was within its usual 10 day service level 
agreement) and the annuity was setup on 20 May 2019, with the first payment due the same 
day the following year.
Mr C then complained initially to L&G (a complaint about it is also being considered under a 
separate reference alongside this) and then Aegon. He said that the Policy Conditions 
allowed him to select a date in advance for the pension commencement date. And that 
Aegon and L&G had told the high court that customers wouldnt be disadvantaged through 
the transfer of business. But yet the terms of his policy werent kept to. And with his annuity 
being payable in arrears, if he was to die between 12 May and 20 May, his estate would lose 
out on nearly £50,000 and this is to the advantage of the insurers.
Neither Aegon nor L&G felt it had done anything wrong on their side.
Aegon says it did the required administration within its usual 10 working day service 
agreement. So it doesnt think it caused a delay.
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint  awarding £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused by Aegons part in failing to allow Mr C an annuity in line with the 
Policy Conditions.  The investigator said that Aegon had a responsibility to Mr C to make 
sure in the transfer arrangements to L&G the Policy Conditions would be met. 
Aegon replied to say it strongly disagreed as the investigators decision ignored any of the 
practicalities of setting up an annuity. It said clearly things have changed since the 1980s 
and it is now required to do many more checks for security reasons. Such as the check it did 
here of Mr Cs bank details. It said in fairness to all its customers it processes the requests it 
received in order. And the time they had taken wasnt unreasonable here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
It seems Aegons processes in place for transferring Mr Cs policy meant that the Policy 
Conditions Mr C was entitled to were never going to be met. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Aegon told Mr C and/or its customers more generally that it would no longer be able to meet 
the Policy Conditions in relation to the pension commencement date. When Aegon left the 
annuity market (as it was entitled to do so) it agreed that customers wouldnt be 
disadvantaged by this change. Mr C made it clear what his intentions were. He told Aegon 
more than a month in advance on 2 April that he wished to choose 12 May 2019 as his 
pension commencement date  as he was entitled to do so under the Policy Conditions. Yet 
Aegon never explained to Mr C that this wouldnt be possible.
Aegon has said it is no longer practical to select a date in advance for an annuity to be 
setup. If this was the case I think it shouldve told Mr C. And I think its fair to presume the reason why the original Policy Conditions required a months notice was because of the 
administration and processing times involved in setting up an annuity. 
I understand that this process becomes more difficult when a transfer to another party is 
required and communication is needed with both sides. But Aegon had a responsibility to 
organise the transfer of its business in such a way that it could meet the terms and 
conditions of the policies. And that customers would suffer no adverse effects due to this. In 
Mr Cs case this hasnt been fulfilled, despite Mr C notifying both parties within reasonable 
timescales.  
Also, where a transfer is involved for an annuity payable yearly in arrears (and where the 
terms and conditions allow for it  with the customer meeting these requirements)  I cant 
see why a future retirement date cannot fairly be selected. Aegons argument about the 
practicality of doing so, would hold more weight in my view if the annuity was payable 
immediately.
The approach taken by Aegon and L&G here meant that if Mr C was aware of what his 
options actually were, it seems he wouldve been faced with a definite financial loss or a 
future potential loss. If Mr C chose a date before his 65th birthday on 12 May, the guaranteed 
annuity rate wouldve been reduced, as a higher rate only kicked in on that date. In selecting 
the date of his 65th birthday, he couldnt receive the annuity on that date a year later due to 
the arrangements between Aegon and L&G. So if he was to die between the date selected 
and the actual commencement date, he (or his estate) will miss out on a whole years 
annuity payment. This does not strike me as fair and isnt in-line with the Policy Conditions. 
If there was a way Mr C couldve received the full guaranteed annuity rate at 65 and have 
the pension commencement date he wished (as he was entitled to under the terms of the 
policy) Aegon didnt explain this to him.
In conclusion, Mr C had an entitlement under the policy-conditions to select a specific 
retirement date in the future if he met the conditions applied. He did meet these conditions. 
As part of the agreement to transfer its policies to L&G, Aegon was required to keep in place 
the prior contractual agreements. It told its customers it would do so. And it didnt tell Mr C 
here that this would be a problem here. So I dont think Aegon have acted fairly.
Putting things right
Aegon cannot now put Mr C in the position he wouldve been in, as the annuity is not its to 
amend. But I think it bears the responsibility of much of the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
C. 
Mr C thought he had done everything required of him to meet what he was entitled to under 
the policy and will have suffered shock and frustration when he saw his actual pension 
commencement date. Mr Cs annuity is not an insignificant amount and if he were to die 
between the date he selected (a date he was entitled to do so under the Policy Conditions) 
and the date the annuity actually commenced, he and/or his estate would lose out on nearly 
£50,000. Therefore, I think the £250 recommended by the investigator to compensate Mr C  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon and direct it to put 
things right as explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman