DRN-4305706
The complaint
Mr  P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) didnt uphold his 
Chargeback Request. He would like £100 compensation and a refund of goods not received 
and/ or damaged.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary scheme, but we do expect businesses to 
raise claims on behalf of customers if it seems there is a reasonable chance of 
success. AMEX raised a chargeback on Mr Ps behalf which is what I would have 
expected it to do.
I appreciate Mr Ps frustration. In its final response letters, the main reason AMEX 
gave for declining the claim was lack of proof Mr P contacted the merchant. Mr P has 
evidenced that he did email the merchant. AMEX acknowledged this in its 
communication with us but didnt feel Mr Ps contact was sufficient. However, I dont 
think that is the main issue here.
Consumers are expected to evidence missing or damaged goods. Ive seen the 
photos from Mr P and a delivery photo provided by the merchant. The latter shows 
no damage to the box whereas Mr Ps photos show a damaged underside. I am 
inclined to accept the box arrived damaged as the merchants photo didnt show the 
underside of the box
However, a damaged box doesnt evidence damaged goods. Mr Ps photos of the 
inside of the box  show some items wrapped in bubble wrap. I cant see any evidence 
of leakage within the box. Damage to the outside of the box could have been caused 
by the box being stored , transited, or kept on delivery near some water rather than 
by leaking items. And  Mr P hasnt provided any photos of the items that show 
damage. So, I dont think he has provided sufficient evidence of damaged goods.
In terms of missing items Mr P ordered 7 items. In the photo provided I can see 3 
items in bubble wrap and two cardboard tubes. However, the information provided 
doesnt confirm items are missing  some may have been wrapped together for 
example.
Unfortunately, as consumers do need to evidence damage or loss of goods I dont 
think the evidence Mr P provided was sufficient . So, I dont think AMEX were 
unreasonable in declining his chargeback request. On this basis I cant reasonably 
ask AMEX to refund the cost of the goods or pay compensation as Mr P would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman