DRN-3471764
The complaint
Mr T complains about restrictions placed on his account by Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Around 5 November 2021 Santander received contact from Action Fraud in relation to Mr T. 
Santander says it received information which indicated funds being used as part of a scam 
mayve been sent to his account by a third party. Santander took the step of applying an 
account restriction to Mr Ts account on 5 November 2020. 
Over the following days, Mr T spoke with Santander several times. There was some 
confusion as Mr T had received a transfer for £1,500 on 29 October 2020 from the same 
friend. But the transfer amount noted in the potential fraud alert was for around £1,780. 
Santander contacted the sending bank in relation to the transfer Mr T had received on 
29 October 2020 to ask questions. Santander went on to remove the account block on 
10 November 2020. 
Mr T complained to Santander about its decision to block his account and it sent him two 
final responses. Santander paid Mr T a total of £100 and said it had temporarily restricted 
account access whilst carrying out investigations. An investigator at this service looked at 
Mr Ts complaint but thought Santander had dealt with it fairly. Mr T didnt agree and said he 
remained concerned that Santander had taken five days to investigate the issue and remove 
account blocks.  As Mr T asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear theres been a degree of confusion in this case as it initially appeared as if another 
bank had contacted Santander about potential fraud in relation to Mr Ts account. It was, in 
fact, a referral from Action Fraud in November 2020 that initiated Santanders investigation. I 
understand there was no fraudulent activity on Mr Ts account. But Santander has to take 
potential fraud seriously and Im satisfied it acted reasonably after it was contacted by Action 
Fraud by restricting access to Mr Ts account. 
Santanders account terms and conditions allow it to place a restriction on an account when 
it has concerns over fraud in order to investigate. As the account terms allow Santander to 
use restrictions I havent found it made an error after being contacted by Action Fraud.  
Mr T spoke with Santander on 5 November 2021 and confirmed his friend had previously 
transferred £1,500 to him on 29 October 2020. Mr T has explained he was asked to contact 
his friend and check whether theyd tried to send him another transfer, but I think that reflects 
the general confusion caused by the referral rather than a mistake by Santander. The 
information Ive seen indicates Santander was trying to match up the information in the fraud 
referral with Mr Ts account movements. I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to 
ask Mr T to contact his friend to check further. 
Mr T has told us he thinks Santander took too long to investigate and remove the account 
restrictions. Santander spoke with Mr T and began its investigation on 5 November 2020 
which was a Thursday. Santander spoke with Mr T again on 6 November 2020, according to 
its contact notes. Santander was able to speak with the relevant parties and complete its 
investigation on 10 November 2021, the following Tuesday. Whilst I agree that is a period of 
four working days, investigations of this nature can take some time. I havent found evidence 
of unreasonable delays by Santander or that it failed to treat Mr T fairly. 
Santander agreed to pay Mr T a total of £100 for the inconvenience caused. In my view, that 
figure fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. As Santander 
removed the account restrictions and paid Mr T a fair settlement, Im not telling it to take 
further action or increase the award. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint because Santander UK Plc has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman