DRN-3272302
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) hasnt paid a cancellation claim under their travel insurance 
policy. 
All references to Mapfre include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Mapfre. The 
policy was purchased on 6 February 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared that Covid-19 was a 
global pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all 
but essential international travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. On 23 
March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the UK and 
the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred 
to as lockdown. 
Mr and Mrs L booked a holiday to a country which Ill call M on 2 July 2020. M was added to 
the FCDOs list of countries that were exempt from advice against all but essential travel on 
4 July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs L were originally due to depart on 23 August 2020. But, on 13 August 2020, the 
FCDO announced that M would be removed from the list of countries which were exempt 
from advice against all but essential travel. This meant Mr and Mrs L would need to 
quarantine on their return to the UK, so they changed their flights to fly to M on 18 October 
2020 instead. 
However, a few weeks before Mr and Mrs Ls rescheduled departure date, the FCDO was 
still advising against all but essential travel to M. So, Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip and 
made a claim under their policy with Mapfre for their non-refundable flight costs.
Mapfre said it considered that Covid-19 was public knowledge at the time Mr and Mrs L 
made their booking, so their claim wasnt covered under their policy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs L complained to Mapfre before bringing the matter to the attention of 
our service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think 
Mapfre had unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so their complaint has been referred to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls policy was bought before the events that unfolded surrounding 
Covid-19 could have been anticipated by either insurers or policyholders. But no insurance 
policy covers every situation and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is 
prepared to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Mapfres obligations to Mr and 
Mrs L are set out in their contract of insurance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy, at page 19 under the heading Cancelling 
and cutting short your holiday, say Mapfre will pay for certain irrecoverable costs if a holiday 
is cancelled for one of a list of specific, insured reasons. However, the general exclusions of 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy, set out on pages 17 to 19, say Mapfre will not cover the following:
31. Any claim related to a known event  that you were aware of at the time you 
took out this insurance and/or prior to the booking of any individual trip.
The policy defines a known event as: 
 an existing or expected publicly announced occurrence, such as a named tropical 
storm, a hurricane or a strike voted upon by union members.
I dont think this is an unusual exclusion. Travel insurance is designed to cover events that 
are unanticipated, unexpected, and unforeseen at the time a trip is booked.
When Mr and Mrs L booked their flights on 2 July 2020, the FCDO was advising against all 
but essential international travel abroad (including to M). This advice had been continuously 
in place since 17 March 2020, and throughout lockdown. Ive accessed historical 
government information and Im satisfied that these dates are correct. The information which 
Mr and Mrs L have sent to us quoting a different date relates to 2021, and not to 2020. 
While the introduction of travel corridors was imminent on 2 July 2020, these werent 
introduced until after Mr and Mrs L booked their flights and the travel corridor system was 
heavily caveated with advice that it was under constant review and that travel disruption was 
still possible. 
Against such a backdrop of widespread global travel restrictions, I cant fairly conclude that 
Covid-19 wasnt an existing  publicly announced occurrence when Mr and Mrs L booked 
their trip in July 2020. 
The fact that an announcement about the upcoming relaxation of border restrictions in M 
may have been made before Mr and Mrs L booked their holiday doesnt change my decision. 
I dont accept that there was no reason to expect that Mr and Mrs L might not have been 
able to travel when they booked their trip and I think they should reasonably have been 
aware there was a likelihood theyd need to make a claim under their policy as a result of 
Covid-19 travel restrictions. I dont think its reasonable to assume that an insurer will 
automatically cover travel in these circumstances under a policy bought before the spread of 
coronavirus. Its up to a policyholder to make sure they have a level of cover in place which 
meets their needs and Mr and Mrs Ls policy simply doesnt cover the circumstances they 
found themselves in.
In summary therefore, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that 
Covid-19 was a known event at the time Mr and Mrs L booked their trip. This means their 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
and Mrs L but I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim, so I wont be directing Mapfre to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman