DRN-3638397
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Bradford & Bingley Limited (B&B) has handled her 
mortgage account. Miss S wants B&B to compensate her for all the interest she has paid on 
the mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 25 May 2022 and 15 June 2022. All parties have a 
copy of those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Miss S being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in 1989 Miss S took out an interest-only mortgage with B&B. The mortgage term 
ended on 31 October 2016. B&B started court proceedings for recovery of the outstanding 
balance.
Miss S says she has made substantial overpayments to the account which were not applied 
to reducing the balance. In addition, she has been caused considerable distress as a result 
of correspondence and court papers which wrongly state she owes over £125,000, when 
shes reduced the balance to about £40,000. Miss S also says that shed asked to change 
from interest-only to capital repayment several times, but B&B refused. In addition, Miss S 
was unhappy that her interest rate hadnt changed when the Bank of England Base Rate 
moved.
B&B issued several final responses from July 2020 onwards. B&B acknowledged it had 
taken longer than usual for a payment of £30,000 to be allocated to the account, due to an 
incorrect number on the transfer form. B&B offered Miss S £50 compensation for this. B&B 
didnt uphold the complaint about the interest rate or Miss Ss requests to change the 
mortgage to capital repayment and issued its final response on this in July 2020. B&B also 
confirmed that, as the capital balance had reduced, the interest charged had also reduced.
Dissatisfied with B&Bs responses, Miss S referred her complaint to our service. B&B put the 
possession proceedings on hold while we looked at the complaint.
An investigator decided that the complaint about switching to capital repayment and about 
the interest rate not changing were out of time, because B&B had issued its final response 
letter on this in July 2020 giving Miss S six months to complain. The complaint was first 
raised with us on 16 July 2021 and there were no exceptional circumstances to explain the 
delay.
In relation to the other complaint issues, the investigator was satisfied that B&B had correctly 
allocated lump sum payments to the account. However, the solicitors and court papers 
incorrectly stated that the balance outstanding was much higher. The investigator asked 
B&B to pay £100 compensation for this, which B&B agreed to. Miss S didnt agree with the 
investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im satisfied we cant consider Miss Ss complaint about wanting to switch to capital 
repayment and about her interest rate not changing. Thats because B&B issued a final 
response on these points in July 2020. The complaint wasnt raised with us until a year later, 
and there are no exceptional circumstances that would allow me to disregard the time limits. 
I will therefore make no further comment on this.
B&B has acknowledged there was a delay in allocating a £30,000 lump sum payment, and 
offered £50 compensation for any distress caused by this. B&B has confirmed that interest 
has been backdated in relation to this, and so I am satisfied there is no detriment to Miss S. I 
think the compensation offered of £50 is fair for this.
I understand the outstanding balance on the account is approximately £40,000. However, 
solicitors acting for B&B incorrectly stated in correspondence and in court papers that the 
balance is £125,000. I can fully appreciate why Miss S was distressed and upset by this. I 
agree with the investigator that a payment of £100 for the distress she has been caused is 
appropriate.
I would reiterate the points the investigator has made  if Miss S believes the account 
balance is incorrect, it is always open to her to have the account independently audited at 
her own expense. If this reveals errors for which B&B is responsible, then that could form the 
basis of a new complaint which, if upheld, might result in B&B reimbursing the cost of the 
audit.
However, the mortgage balance is now almost six years overdue, and, if repayment 
proposals cant be agreed, B&B will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, 
as a last resort. I would not want Miss S to underestimate the seriousness of this. Where a 
mortgage term has expired, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend 
possession are very limited.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to 
alarm Miss S, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that we would tell 
Bradford & Bingley that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint 
being raised.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint, in addition to the £50 offered in relation to the 
delay in allocating the £30,000 payment, I direct Bradford & Bingley Limited to pay Miss S 
£100 for distress caused by their solicitors quoting an incorrect figure in correspondence and 
court papers. I make no other order or award.My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and direct Bradford & Bingley Limited to 
settle the complaint as directed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman