DRN-4170452
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs P complained that HL failed to distribute dividends that 
accrued to the estate until some years after the estates tax liabilities had been agreed with 
HMRC. They were also unhappy that HL incorrectly paid a dividend to one of the executors, 
causing significant distress. The executors wanted to know how the errors occurred, why 
they werent discovered sooner and they were concerned that what happened may have 
potentially costly tax implications.
  
Mrs C handled the complaint on behalf of the executors. She didnt feel that the payment of 
£150 for distress and inconvenience paid to her by HL was adequate (or that HL should 
have paid this to her without her prior approval) or that its offer communicated by way of 
secure message to indemnify charges or fines imposed by HMRC can be relied on and that 
it will be enough to ensure the executors arent left out of pocket. 
 
What happened
Mrs P died in 2014 and Mrs C is one of her appointed executors, with authority to bring a 
complaint on behalf of the estate. 
In June 2015, HL issued a Consolidated Tax Certificate (CTC) to Mrs C as the lead executor 
and Mrs Ps estate was subsequently distributed. The tax owing on the estate was settled 
with HMRC under its informal process. After receiving final confirmation from HMRC in 2017 
that all tax owing in respect of the estate had been paid, Mrs C and the other executors 
assumed this concluded probate. 
In May 2022, one of the other executors (not Mrs C) unexpectedly received a secure 
message from HL via her own personal HL account, telling her it had paid into her account a 
previously unreported sum of £14.17 in respect of a unit trust interest payment made to 
Mrs Ps estate and received by HL on 31 July 2015. There was no explanation or further 
detail provided and she immediately followed this up with HL. The executor wanted to know 
how the sum could not have been identified for nearly seven years, why all the executors 
hadnt been formally notified about it, why the money was paid to her when the rest of the 
estate had been proportionately distributed and why no CTC had been provided. When she 
received an unsatisfactory response from HL she passed the correspondence over to Mrs C 
to follow up.
HL told Mrs C that some historical income payments had been missed owing to human error 
and its accounts team was taking steps to ensure residual balances credited following the 
initial closure of the estate were distributed. HL acknowledged that its failure to process the 
residual income that was applied to Mrs Ps account in 2015 was an error and apologised for 
the delay. It said senior managers were reviewing HLs processes and controls to limit the 
risk of this happening in the future. It said it shouldve paid the £14.17 to Mrs C as the main 
executor and that it had reversed the payment. HL offered to pay this sum into Mrs Cs HL 
account and invited her payment instructions. It apologised for spelling her surname 
incorrectly on occasion and confirmed her account showed the correct details. 
In recognition of the fact that Mrs C had received a level of service that fell below the 
standard HL said she was entitled to expect, HL paid her £150 for distress and 
inconvenience and apologised to Mrs C for the issues she had experienced. It also said that 
it would be happy to review any evidence of tax or charges incurred.
Mrs C remained unhappy with HLs responses and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt that although HL had made mistakes in the administration of Mrs Ps 
account, its offer to pay the reasonable cost of an accountant/tax specialist to determine the 
tax impact of its mistake, as well as any fine HMRC may levy on the estate, along with its 
offer of £150 compensation, was fair overall to resolve the complaint. In coming to this view, 
the investigator explained that the executors were involved in the complaint only as the legal 
representatives of Mrs Ps estate. 
Mrs C disagreed. She felt, in particular, since the executors have had to deal with all the 
issues arising, that they should be entitled to complain on their own behalf. And in addition to 
the original complaint points, which she didnt feel had been properly answered or explained, 
she mentioned that a number of other transactions dating from 2015 had also not previously 
been accounted for in the June 2015 CTC. Mrs C was very worried that the cost of preparing 
further tax returns and liaison with HMRC will fall upon the executors and that the executors 
will be liable for any penalty that might be incurred. She felt that it was very unfair that the 
executors found themselves in this position due to HL having failed in its obligation to report 
the dividend receipts and associated tax position accurately to them.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mrs C and the other executors have been caused upset and suffered significant 
inconvenience during the course of their dealings with HL. They are having to undertake 
further work when they thought they had discharged their executor roles. I sympathise and 
I can understand why they feel HL should be held to account for its admitted poor handling 
of matters. I appreciate that the executors would like to understand better how the errors 
occurred in the first place and why it took so long for these to be identified. And I recognise 
how unhappy they are about the way HL actioned matters when errors came to light.
But this complaint relates to the way HL has handled matters concerning Mrs Ps estate. 
Mrs C and the other executors can bring this complaint only as representatives of the estate 
and not in their personal capacities. This is an important distinction which goes to the heart 
of what this service can do in this situation. 
Under the rules governing our service, Mrs C and the other executors of Mrs Ps estate 
arent entitled to any compensation for the upset and inconvenience experienced in the 
course of carrying out their executor duties. We can only tell a business to pay 
compensation for upset and inconvenience experienced by its client, not by a third party. 
Here, the client is the late Mrs P. Following her death, the investments remained within her 
estate and in this particular situation, notwithstanding any personal accounts held with HL, 
the capacity in which Mrs C and the other executors had dealings with HL is as 
representatives of the estate.  
Whilst its clear there were shortcomings in the service HL provided, Mrs C was throughout 
acting as the appointed representative of Mrs Ps estate when dealing with HL so I cant 
award her any compensation or other redress in her capacity as one of the executors. And 
the same applies to all the other executors. As far as I can see, the background facts are not in dispute and as HL has upheld the 
executors complaint I will concentrate on the question of fair redress for the estate.
I can award redress if the impact of HLs admitted errors results in financial loss to the 
estate.
HL has provided an updated CTC to the executors which I understand shows the final tax 
position. HL recognises that this might mean the executors having to seek specialist tax 
advice and potentially entering into further discussions with HMRC about any payments now 
required as a result of additional dividends having been received by the estate.
Since the executors relied in good faith on the tax information HL supplied previously and 
this was accepted by HMRC, I find its fair and reasonable that HL should cover additional 
costs that now accrue to the estate as a result of errors it made that have affected the final 
value of the estate and which might impact on the estates ultimate tax liability.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs C and HL have both confirmed that they dont have anything further to add, so I think its 
reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
HL should pay the executors redress as follows:
- on receipt of an itemised invoice/invoices, the reasonable professional costs incurred 
by the executors when seeking advice about the estates liability for further tax 
and/or negotiating with HMRC in connection with this matter
- on receipt of evidence from HMRC of any costs/charges or other payments levied in 
relation to Mrs Ps estate, an amount sufficient to reimburse the estate for any 
resulting financial loss.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint brought on behalf of the estate of Mrs P and Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman