DRN-1466466
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard after she told it about her financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss J contacted Barclaycard as she had been advised to contact her creditors by her 
Barclays branch. Miss J is unhappy as Barclaycard told her:
it was immediately freezing her credit card for a month; 
charges would still be applied thereafter;
to go to the job centre; and,
her credit file would be adversely affected. 
 
Miss J says this meant she didnt have access to the remainder of funds available on her 
credit limit which she feels she was entitled to. And she says the information about the credit 
file contradicted what shed been told in branch. So she complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard said that Miss J told it that shed been out of work for over a year and that she 
had now exhausted her savings. As a result, she couldnt meet the next payment due to her 
credit card. It says it explored the options available to Miss J, but these were limited given 
she had no set income. But it placed a freeze on the account to prevent further interest and 
charges from being applied. It acknowledged that blocking access to any available funds 
was frustrating for Miss J. But it said that as a responsible lender it was required to prevent 
the outstanding debt from increasing.      
Disappointed with this service, Miss J raised a formal complaint with Barclays Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO). She asked for him to look into her concerns and issue a personal 
reply. But Miss J says she didnt receive a personal reply. 
Miss J feels shes been misled, misrepresented and let down throughout the process. And 
that Barclaycard doesnt have a robust complaints process in place. Shed like Barclaycard 
to retrain its staff and higher standards to be introduced.  
So Miss J complained to our service. To resolve the complaint Miss J says shed like 
compensation for the cancellation of her credit card, all charges to be refunded and any 
adverse information removed from her credit file. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Js complaint about Barclaycard. But he didnt 
uphold the complaint. He didnt think Barclaycard had done anything substantially wrong in 
the circumstances. Miss J didnt accept this. And she asked for her complained to be looked 
at by an ombudsman. So the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
Miss J has since told us her account has been defaulted and that she is receiving 
threatening correspondence from Barclaycard about repayment of the outstanding balance 
on the account. Our investigator asked Barclaycard to suspend recovery action pending our final decision and Barclaycard has agreed to put a hold on its recovery action while the 
complaint was being reviewed by us.
Miss J has complained about two separate entities of Barclays Bank UK PLC. And our 
investigator dealt with her complaints as a whole. But as we have now reached the stage of 
issuing a formal decision, the complaints have been split to deal with the two business 
entities separately. But I can assure Miss J that I have reviewed all the information on both 
cases. This decision relates to Miss Js credit card account with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its clear Miss J has strong feelings about this complaint. Shes provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view, which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Miss J will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
While I empathise with Miss Js situation - I can appreciate that losing her job and struggling 
financially has been stressful and overwhelming for her. And from what Ive seen it seems 
that Miss J did try to manage for some time before seeking help from Barclaycard. But 
having considered everything, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I 
know Miss J will be extremely disappointed, so Ill explain why.  
I think it would be helpful to explain that our role is to look impartially at complaints and 
decide if the business complained about has done something wrong. If it has, we ask the 
business to put things right. But we dont regulate businesses, so its not our role to tell a 
business how to train its staff or how to deal with complaints.
Where a customer is in financial difficulties, a lender is required to treat the situation 
positively and sympathetically. But the rules dont say that there are specific remedies a 
business is obliged to offer. The type of remedies we might expect a business to consider 
can include (but is not limited to): suspending and/or refunding interest and charges, 
agreeing to reduced payments, sign-posting to debt advise/other appropriate agencies, 
offering a consolidation loan to reduce monthly outgoings or a mix of these things. But which 
remedies the lender ultimately offers is dependent on the individual circumstances of the 
customer. For example, agreeing a reduced repayment plan might be appropriate when the 
customer still has an income coming in and an income and expenditure assessments shows 
the customer can meet the reduced amount.       
Here, when Miss J contacted Barclaycard, she had not been working for some time. And she 
had been relying on her savings and credit to meet her monthly commitments. And I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss J was expecting to receive a lump sum from  for 
example, the sale of a house. And it seems Miss J told Barclaycard she couldnt meet the 
next monthly payment due on her account. So I dont think agreeing a reduced monthly 
repayment wouldve helped in this situation. And while I can see why Miss J thought having 
access to the remaining available credit on her credit card would help her, I wouldnt expect 
a lender to extend further credit to her in these circumstances. 
Barclaycard says that Miss J told it she hoped to borrow some money from a friend and was 
applying for income support. And so it initially froze her account temporarily so that interest and charges would be suspended. And it accepted that Miss J would not be making the next 
monthly repayment. And from what Ive seen, it seems Barclaycard was prepared to extend 
the freeze as shes told us that the account had been frozen for another month. So while 
Miss J may have initially been told that charges would apply once the freeze had expired, I 
havent seen anything to suggest charges were applied as the freeze was extended on a 
month by month basis. Overall, I think Barclaycard acted appropriately when it froze Miss Js 
credit card account. In doing so it stopped the debt increasing and prevented any further 
interest and charges from being applied.
But I accept that this didnt go on indefinitely. But Barclays records indicate that in a 
telephone call in February 2019  when Miss J first contacted Barclaycard, Miss J was told 
that if around six-monthly payments were missed her account would be defaulted. And this is 
in line with the regulations laid down by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). These 
say when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may 
be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months behind with their payments. Its not in dispute that Miss J went on to miss her 
monthly payments and I can see the default letter was issued in August 2019. So I think 
Barclaycard followed the correct procedures in the circumstances. Im sorry to heat Miss J 
found these letters to be of a threatening nature. But Ive reviewed the default notice and 
other correspondence and I consider these to be standard in nature. And Barclaycard is 
required to tell its customer about the action it is taking.  
Miss J says she was told her credit file would be affected but this was different to what she 
was told when shed contacted a Barclays branch. But Im satisfied that Barclaycard gave 
Miss J the right information. Lenders are required to report an accurate reflection of the 
account activity with the credit reference agencies. So if payments are missed and account 
defaulted then I would expect a lender to record this. As this is what has happened here, I 
wont be asking Barclaycard to remove this information from Miss Js credit file.
Overall, I think Barclaycard treated Miss J positively and sympathetically  it suspended 
interest and charges and gave her some time to try to sort out her financial situation. But 
when this didnt happen, the account was defaulted in line with the ICO guidelines. 
I can see that Miss J complained to Barclays CEO about both of her accounts held within 
the Barclays group. And that she is unhappy that the CEO didnt personally respond to her. 
But I can see that Miss J did receive a response to her concerns from the Executive 
Complaints Office. Its not for this service to interfere with how Barclaycard handles 
complaints or trains its staff. Barclaycard has an established complaint handling process - as 
most large business do. And Im satisfied in this case Barclaycard followed its complaints 
process.  
I understand that Miss J has an expectation that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay her a 
loyalty bonus as she has held accounts with it for many years. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Barclaycard offer loyalty bonuses solely because an account has been opened 
for many years. So I dont think it did anything wrong when it turned down Miss Js request.   
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman