DRN-4216889
The complaint
Ms O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has only refunded 50% of her 
losses after she fell victim to a scam. Ms O has a representative assisting her with her 
complaint. 
What happened
In March 2018, Ms O started speaking to the scammer on a popular dating app and after 
speaking with him for a few months, in May 2018, they moved the conversation over on to a 
popular messaging app. Ms O believed that she was in a romantic relationship with the 
scammer and, during this time, he did not ask her for any money. 
Ms O was told by the scammer that he was digging for diamonds abroad, but the 
government of that country had stopped him digging (Ill call this country C). He asked her to 
pay for some fees to enable him to resume his work. He said he would send her diamonds 
for her to sell (assuring her they were worth millions). He also showed her pictures of said 
diamonds. The scammer explained that he couldnt pay the fees himself as he didnt have a 
bank account in country C. 
In early June 2018, Ms O made her first payment for £7,000. Over the coming months, Ms O 
was asked for further fees, surcharges, taxes etc  and she made several more transfers 
abroad to 5 different beneficiaries. Ms O did not at any point meet with the scammer or verify 
his identity. 
During this process, Ms O received documentation which Ms O thought was legal 
documentation  but this was from a different country (which Ill call T). Ms O also received a 
certificate that she paid for (on behalf of the scammer) to enable him to continue digging in 
country C  but this certificate had her name on it as well as the scammer, despite Ms O not 
being involved in digging for diamonds herself. Ms O also paid a further fee, to enable the 
scammer to obtain diplomatic immunity. Ms O was contacted by a courier company asking 
for fees but made no attempt to verify the legitimacy of the people contacting her before 
paying these fees. 
Ms O didnt receive any packages of diamonds during this process but did receive a 
suitcase. She was asked for further money to pay for some liquid for the diamonds, but she 
did not have any money left. On explaining this to the scammer, all contact ceased. 
A year later, Ms Os son was able to open the suitcase and found that it contained black 
money and at this point Ms O realised the liquid she was asked to buy was likely to clean the 
money. At this point Ms O realised shed been scammed. The suitcase and black money 
were disposed of.   
In 2022, Ms O reported the matter to Barclays. Barclays felt it could have done more to 
prevent the loss and refunded 50% of the payments Ms O sent. However, it didnt refund the 
full amount, award any interest or pay any further compensation as it felt Ms O should bear 
some responsibility for the loss too. It said Ms O didnt conduct any due diligence, had only 
spoken to the scammer for a few months and sent large amounts of money to different 
people. 
Unhappy, Ms O referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and didnt think that Barclays should have to refund any more than it already 
had. She agreed that, while Barclays did fail in its duty of care towards Ms O, she felt that 
Ms O also should bear some loss due to contributory negligence. She felt that there were a 
number of indicators that this was a scam that Ms O did not take heed of, and therefore a 
50% deduction to her redress was fair. 
Ms Os representative initially re-iterated that Barclays ought to have intervened therefore 
the complaint should be upheld. Our investigator explained again that Barclays had already 
accepted that it should have intervened and had refunded 50% of Mr Os losses due to this. 
At this point Ms Os representative explained it didnt feel Ms O should bear any loss as she 
was elderly and had been groomed and manipulated by the scammer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays needs to do any more and Ill explain why. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Barclays are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers authorised the 
transactions, the starting point is that theyre responsible. To be clear, Barclays did not scam 
Ms O and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. In this case, all parties appear to accept the 
Ms O authorised these payments 
 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
Much of Ms O and her representatives comments have been around why Barclays should 
have intervened and done more to protect Ms O from financial harm. But Barclays has 
already accepted that it ought to have intervened and should have had a conversation with 
Ms O about these international transfers. As far as Im aware, Ms O hadnt been coached to 
lie and given the implausibility of the scam Ms O fell victim to, I think its likely that if Barclays 
had intervened and asked questions about these payments, it likely would have discovered 
the scam and prevented the loss. Barclays appears to have accepted this and has therefore 
refunded 50% of the payments. 
The only matter left in dispute is how to put things right  Ms O believes Barclays should 
bear all the loss, and Barclays believes Ms O should also bear some of the loss. 
Having considered everything that everyone has said, broadly for the same reasons as our 
investigator, I think Ms O should also bear 50% of the losses in this case. I think there were 
an array of indicators throughout this process that ought to have raised concerns that this 
was a scam and I think Ms O unreasonably ignored these signs. Some of the reasons I think 
Mr O should bear 50% of the loss are as follows: 
Ms O sent a considerable amount of money based on the word of a person shed only spoken to for a few months and had never met in person. 
She transferred money to five different beneficiaries believing they were people that 
worked with the scammer but without actually addressing with the scammer why the 
payments were being made this way. 
She didnt verify the identity of the scammer and did not make any attempts to check 
that the courier company asking her for money was a legitimate company. 
She received a certificate with her name on it despite not being involved in digging 
for diamonds herself and didnt question why this was the case. 
She also received documentation from country T, despite being told the diamonds 
were from country C. 
She didnt question why someone shed spoken to for a few months would send her 
diamonds worth millions. 
Despite never having received a package of diamonds of even details of when she 
could expect to receive the package, she continued to send payments. 
She was asked to pay a fee to buy diplomatic immunity and I think its implausible 
that diplomatic immunity could be purchased.
I have considered Ms Os representatives concerns that she is elderly and was manipulated.  
I have no doubt that Ms O was manipulated and trusted the scammer believing she was in a 
relationship with him  I understand she has been left deeply distressed by this scam. But 
consumers are expected to take reasonable care of their money. I think there were so many 
serious signs that this was a scam in this case, and I think its more likely Ms O did foresee 
some of these risks, but she unreasonably ignored them. Therefore, Im not persuaded that 
its fair for Barclays to bear the full loss in this case. Ms O was fully able to use the dating 
app, the messaging app and visit her branch to make thousands of pounds of transfers. I 
think she was able to ask for advice and discuss her concerns but chose not to do so, 
instead choosing to unreasonably overlook very obvious signs that this was a scam. So, I 
think both Barclays and Ms O sharing the loss in this case is fair and reasonable. 
Ive thought about whether it was feasible for Barclays to have tried to recover these 
amounts after it became aware of the scam. As Ms O and her representative might be 
aware, scammers move quickly to remove any funds sent to them and Ms O didnt report 
this scam for almost four years. So, as explained by our investigator, I dont think its likely 
that Barclays could have retrieved any money at this point. 
 
I have thought about compensation for the distress that Ms O has suffered as well as 
compensatory interest. I understand the experience has caused Ms O significant distress 
and inconvenience. While I am very sorry for the difficulties she has experienced, ultimately 
it was the scammer who was responsible for her suffering. And whilst I have concluded 
Barclays most likely could have prevented the payments, Ive also explained why I think a 
50% reduction to the compensation due to contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all 
of this in mind, overall, Im satisfied that the 50% refund already paid by Barclays represents 
a fair outcome to this case, so I dont think Barclays needs to pay any more for distress and 
inconvenience or compensatory interest.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Asma BegumOmbudsman