DRN-4516148
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the actions of her mortgage lender, Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited trading as Acenden. Mrs H had agreed for a field agent to attend her 
property to take photos of water damage. However, she said that Kensington sent a field 
bailiff, who attended her property at night and left threatening letters. Mrs H says that, as 
she is vulnerable, this caused her considerable distress. Mrs H wants Kensington to pay her 
damages, as well as her out of pocket expenses.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mrs H being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving a brief summary of the complaint, 
followed by the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mrs H has a mortgage with Kensington. In about 2018 Mrs H suffered a water leak inside the 
property which she says has rendered it uninhabitable. Following a conversation with 
Kensington in September 2023, it was agreed that a field agent would attend to photograph 
the damage.
The field agent attempted to make contact with Mrs H on several occasions, both by 
attending the property twice (when the door wasnt answered) and by telephoning her. 
(Mrs H has since told us that BT was inadvertently blocking calls to her number at this time.) 
The last visit the field agent made was in the evening. As on previous visits, there was no 
answer, so he left a standard letter asking Mrs H to contact him, which caused Mrs H some 
distress, as she saw it as threatening. This was the second such letter hed left.
Mrs H complained. Kensington offered Mrs H compensation of £100, and wanted to discuss 
the matter with Mrs H, but wasnt able to. Mrs H escalated her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think Kensington needed to do 
anything more. He noted that the field agents visit was pre-arranged with the agreement of 
Mrs H, so it was a reasonable expectation that hed have been able to complete his task of 
photographing the water damage to the property. The agent had also tried to call and had 
left messages. Overall, the investigator thought that the £100 offered by Kensington was fair.
Mrs H didnt agree, and asked for her complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman on 
humanitarian grounds. She says that the offer of £100 is an insult, offensive and not 
reasonable or fair. Mrs H also disputes that messages were left on her phone. She said that 
her telephone has no voicemails at all  only answerphone. 
Mrs H says that she believes damages of over £100 are to be agreed, as well as her out of 
pocket expenses. Mrs H says that it is an utter insult for Kensingtons bailiffs to grossly 
mistreat me in this abhorrent manner and she considers the investigator to have been 
biased for siding with Kensington. Mrs H says that she is reliably informed by FCA, ICO 
and others that FOS  can direct this all to court
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. 
Therefore, although Ive noted what Mrs H has said about various agencies telling her that 
our service can refer this matter to court on her behalf, that is simply not the case. I am sorry 
if Mrs H has misunderstood the position, but my role is to decide Mrs Hs complaint raised 
with our service about the field agent instructed by Kensington.
Ive reviewed the evidence. I note that Mrs H had agreed for a field agent to visit, and so 
instructions were given by Kensington to its agent. I can see that the agent made numerous 
attempts to contact Mrs H between 8 September 2023 and 18 September 2023, leaving five 
telephone messages and making two visits to the property, when he left a standard letter on 
each occasion. The last visit, on 18 September 2023, was at 7.45pm, which Mrs H found 
very distressing. 
Mrs H was also very upset by the letters left by the field agent. These were standard letters 
that field agents usually leave, where they explain that they have called to discuss the 
account and payments. Thats because field agents are usually instructed when there are 
mortgage arrears or payment difficulties. I know that wasnt the case here  Mrs H had 
actually agreed to the field agents visit to inspect internal damage to the property, so I agree 
that the standard letter wasnt appropriate. But given that Mrs H had invited the agent to visit, 
and agreed this with Kensington, I am not persuaded it was reasonable for her either not to 
return the messages she received or to answer the door, particularly when the first visit was 
made at about 11am on a Tuesday morning.
In this regard, Mrs H has confirmed that her phone doesnt have voicemails, only an 
answering machine. On balance, Im satisfied that the field agent did leave messages. I say 
this because our investigator has also confirmed that he left messages, which Mrs H said 
she didnt receive. Mrs H has also said that BT has been blocking her calls. Im persuaded, 
therefore, that the field agents record of messages left and visits made to the property is 
reliable. If Mrs H didnt receive the messages he left for her, shell need to take this up with 
BT.
Mrs H has referred to the field agent as a bailiff. However, Im satisfied Mrs H knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known (given that shed asked for a field agent to attend the 
property) of the purpose of his visit  to photograph damage she said had occurred internally 
which she claims has rendered the property uninhabitable. 
I can see that the letters Mrs H was left would have caused her distress. Kensington has 
acknowledged this and offered £100 compensation. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that this is fair, reasonable and proportionate. We dont award damages in the way a court would, and I have to take into account all the circumstances of this case  and in particular 
that Mrs H had actually asked for a field agents visit, but then refused to answer the door or 
call to arrange a convenient appointment. Given this, Im not persuaded the field agents 
actions were wholly unreasonable, in all the circumstances.
I think the £100 offered by Kensington is fair and reasonable, and so Im not ordering 
Kensington to pay any additional compensation or cover any of Mrs Hs expenses.
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it has not already done so, Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited trading as Acenden must pay Mrs H £100 compensation in full and final settlement 
of this case. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman