DRN-3251877
The complaint
Ms A says Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms A took out an 18-month instalment loan for £1,445 from Likely Loans on 25 August 2015. 
It was for education and paid directly to the provider. The monthly repayment was £91.84 
and the total repayable was £1,653.12.
Ms A says she couldnt afford the loan, she never declared her income to be £2,500 as she 
was only working part-time, and she had to borrow more as a result.
Our investigator didnt recommend Ms As complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders 
checks were proportionate and showed Ms A had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
loan.
Ms A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Ms A required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Ms A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Ms A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Ms A. So to reach my conclusion I have
considered the following questions:
did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Ms As loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Ms A before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of her monthly income and says Ms A declared this was £2,500 
(gross) on her application. I note Ms A disputes this. The lender has explained it no longer 
holds Ms As application document as it was done on a system that has since been 
deactivated. Given the time since the loan I dont find this to be unreasonable. I havent 
found other evidence to support Ms As claim that she didnt declare that level of income, so 
I think its fair to rely on the lenders records. Likely Loans estimated Ms As monthly living 
costs using national statistics. It also checked Ms As credit file. It does not store the results 
of this check but has shared the high-level findings. From these checks combined Likely 
Loans concluded Ms A had enough monthly disposable income (£909.42) to afford to repay 
the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate give the value and term of the loan, and the value of 
the monthly repayments as a proportion of Ms As income. And I think Likely Loans made a 
fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Its affordability assessment 
showed Ms A would have around £900 surplus income each month after making the loan 
repayment. And whilst it has not been able to share the results it has told the results of the 
credit check showed Ms A had no other debt or adverse entries (such as defaults or missed 
payments) on her file when she applied. To support this it has supplied a copy of a credit 
check that does show at the time of application Ms A had a mail order and a credit card 
account with no balances, and no overdraft. 
So in the round I think it was reasonable for Likely Loans to give the loan to Ms A. I can see 
from its customer contact records that she contacted the lender in October 2015 to explain 
she had lost her job, and I am sorry this change in circumstances made the loan 
unaffordable for Ms A. But I cant fairly find that Likely Loans did anything wrong at the point 
of application. 
I havent seen any evidence that Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms A 
in some other way. My final decision
I am not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman