DRN-2886387
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited unfairly treated his motor 
insurance policy as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance) and, as a result, declined to pay 
a claim.
Some of the events Mr S has complained about have been taken by the broker that sold 
Mr S the policy but, where the broker was acting as agents for, Mulsanne I will only refer to 
those actions as being Mulsannes.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has been helped by his friend. But, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr S friends comments as being those of Mr S.
What happened
Mr S took out a policy underwritten by Mulsanne. He was in an accident and claimed on his 
policy. When reporting the claim Mr S told Mulsanne he worked as a warehouseman. 
Mulsanne said Mr S had told it, when applying for the policy, that he was a shop assistant. It 
said if hed told it he worked as a warehouseman it wouldn't have offered him the policy. It 
said it thought Mr S had deliberately misrepresented his occupation when applying for the 
policy. So it voided his policy and refused to pay his claim.
Mr S brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
didn't think Mulsanne needed to take any further action. Mr S didn't agree so the complaint's 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has also raised a complaint about the brokers actions in connection with the sale of the 
policy. Were considering that complaint under a separate reference number. So I won't 
comment on those issues within this decision.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes submitted to us, Mulsanne and the broker carefully. But in this decision 
I don't intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as 
being the key issues at the heart of Mr S complaint. 
Did Mr S make a misrepresentation?
When applying for an insurance policy a consumer is required to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. That means they are required to answer an insurers question 
correctly, completely and to the best of their knowledge. 
In this case Mr S was looking for quotes from a comparison website. That site asked him 
what he did for a living. I think that's a clear question. The first five times Mr S looked for 
quotes he answered that question saying he was a warehouseman working in the industry of 
distribution. And on each of those occasions Mulsanne didn't give him a quote for insurance. 
Thats because a warehouseman isn't an occupation thats acceptable to it. 
It might help if I explain that insurers consider many factors when deciding whether or not to 
offer a policy and if so the premium they will charge for those policies. And one of the factors 
insurers consider is the job a potential policyholder does and the industry they work in. 
Insurers gather statistics about their policyholders and they use those to determine the risks 
that certain consumers will make a claim and the costs to settle those claims. And if insurers 
consider that consumers who work in certain professions or industries are at a higher risk of 
making claims than others they may decide not to offer a policy to people in those jobs or 
industries. That's something insurers are allowed to do. In this case, Mulsanne isn't prepared 
to offer a policy to people who work as warehousemen. Thats a commercial decision its 
allowed to reach and I don't find it unfair or unreasonable.
So, when Mr S was looking for quotes and said he was a warehouseman on the comparison 
site Mulsanne didn't give Mr S a quote, because it wasn't prepared to take the risk of 
insuring him. But, on the sixth occasion he asked for a quote, Mr S said he was a shop 
assistant working in the industry of trade demonstrator. And on the basis of those details 
Mulsanne gave him a quote and Mr S bought the policy. So I need to think about whether or 
not Mr S made a misrepresentation when he ran that quote and answered the comparison 
sites questions.
When Mr S made a claim following the accident, Mulsanne asked him what he did for a 
living. Mr S said he was a warehouseman. Mulsanne ask him why hed told it that he was a 
shop assistant when he applied for the policy. Mr S said that if he did that it must have been 
a mistake, most likely caused because English isn't his first language. In other words Mr S 
acknowledged at that point that his answer to the comparison sites question about what he 
did for a living wasnt correct, complete and to the best of his knowledge. 
In bringing his complaint Mr S has argued that, as he works for a supermarket he is an 
assistant for a shop. Hes also raised semantic arguments about what constitutes a shop, 
for example by referring to the term shop floor which could refer to a factory or other 
employment area including a warehouse. So hes argued that he could legitimately say he is 
a shop assistant. 
But Mr S is clearly aware of what he does for a living. His employment contract describes his 
job as a warehouse colleague and Mr S said his primary task is to load trucks. I don't think 
the fact that those trucks are most likely destined for a retail environment means that Mr S is 
assisting in the shop or that he can reasonably say his job is a shop assistant. And Mr S 
acknowledged that hed made a mistake when Mulsanne asked him to explain why hed said 
he was a shop assistant. Hes only argued that it wasn't a mistake after Mulsanne declined 
his claim and voided his policy. So I don't think Mr S took reasonable care when answering 
the comparison sites question about what he did for a living. It follows that I think Mr S made 
a misrepresentation.
Was it fair for Mulsanne to void Mr S policy?
Theres specific legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA), which sets out what an insurer may do where a consumers made a 
misrepresentation. And in circumstances where the insurer wouldn't have offered the policy 
but for that misrepresentation then CIDRA allows it to void it and refuse to pay any claim. So, 
in this case if Mr S hadn't made a misrepresentation then Mulsanne wouldn't have offered 
him a policy. In those circumstances CIDRA allows Mulsanne to refuse Mr S claim and void 
his policy. That's what it did, and I think it did so fairly.Was Mr Ms misrepresentation deliberate?
CIDRA splits misrepresentations into two categories:
deliberate or reckless
careless.
Mulsanne said Mr S misrepresentation was deliberate. However, whether the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or simply careless, because  for example  Mr S made a 
mistake because of his poor English, the remedy under CIDRA (save for how an insurer 
handles the premium paid) is the same. That is, even if I agreed that Mr S misrepresentation 
was careless, given that Mulsanne wouldn't have ever offered him the policy, the remedy 
under CIDRA is still to void it. However, the difference would be that, if the misrepresentation 
was careless rather than deliberate, CIDRA requires Mulsanne to return Mr S premium. But 
where a misrepresentation is deliberate (or reckless) CIDRA allows Mulsanne to keep Mr S 
premium. As Mulsanne said Mr S misrepresentation was deliberate it has kept his premium.
CIDRA says that it is for the insurer, in this case Mulsanne, to show that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate. In doing so Mulsanne isn't required to provide proof Mr S 
deliberately made a misrepresentation. Instead its required to show that on the balance of 
probabilities, that is whats more likely than not to have happened. In other words Mulsanne 
is required to show that Mr S knew the answer he gave was untrue or misleading.
It was only after Mr S made a claim on his policy that Mulsanne learned that hed previously 
said, on five occasions, that he was employed a as warehouseman, but on the sixth said he 
was a shop assistant. And, as I've said above, I think the question on the comparison 
website about what Mr S did for a living was clear. While I note that English isn't Mr S first 
language, he had a reasonable enough command of English to answer the question 
accurately on five occasions but didn't do so on the sixth. I think thats unlikely to be because 
his English failed him on that occasion.
Further, when answering the question the comparison site explains the process of entering 
an occupation is by typing in the first three letters of the job in in order to be given a list of 
likely matches. So, in order to select that he worked in a warehouse, Mr S would have had to 
type in the letters W+A+R and then choose warehouseman. And in order to say he worked 
in a shop he would have had to type S+H+O and then select shop assistant. So, on five 
earlier occasions Mr S typed W+A+R and selected that he was a warehouseman. But on the 
sixth occasion he typed S+H+O then chose that he was a shop assistant. He then went on to 
say that the industry he worked in was trade demonstrator. I don't think its likely that could 
happen by accident or because of a mis-click. So I think that in the application which 
Mulsanne offered a policy against, Mr S chose to input shop assistant as his employment. 
And I think in doing so, it's more likely than not that Mr S knew that answer was untrue or 
misleading. In other words I think Mulsannes decision to say that Mr S misrepresentation 
was deliberate was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Should Mulsanne have done more to find out Mr S details?
Mr S argued that Mulsanne should have validated Mr S details to find out his job at an 
earlier stage. Hes said that it is by no means industry standard not to check details 
provided. But I think hes mistaken. As I've said above, Mulsanne only found out about the 
earlier quotes Mr S had asked for after he made a claim. So it had no reason to question his 
answer when he said he was a shop assistant. Further, while there are some things, for example no claims discount, that insurers will 
routinely ask for evidence of, generally, for motor insurance policies, the majority of motor 
insurers will accept the information consumers give to them in good faith. Motor insurance is 
an intensely competitive market often operating on tight margins. And brokers and insurers 
try to keep their costs to a minimum; so they won't generally invest time and resources in 
seeking to verify all the answers consumers have given when applying for a policy. And 
while they might seek to validate certain aspects of information consumers provide, for 
example by checking shared industry databases for claims history, they won't usually seek 
to validate all a policyholders details until a claim is made. So, contrary to Mr S point that 
Mulsanne didn't act in line with industry standards, in fact, it is the industry standard not to 
check details like a consumers job. It follows that I don't think Mulsanne did anything wrong 
in not seeking to validate Mr S job title after Mr S applied for his policy. 
Motive, facts and evidence
Mr S said that Mulsanne, and indeed our investigator, has looked into the matter from a 
position of bias based on suspicion. He said Mulsanne hasn't shown any motive for Mr S to 
make a misrepresentation. 
As I've said above, the applicable test in cases such as this is balance of probabilities. And 
I think the balance of probabilities is that Mr S made a misrepresentation and he did so 
deliberately. Only Mr S can know what his motive for doing that was. But elsewhere in his 
submissions to Mulsanne and us, Mr S has said that he wasnt looking for a Mulsanne policy 
explicitly but instead was looking for the cheapest policy he could find. So it seems likely that 
his motive for making a misrepresentation was to find as cheap a policy as possible. 
The facts are that Mr S had run five earlier quotes giving his job title as warehouseman. And 
its a fact that he wasnt offered a Mulsanne policy on any of those occasions. I don't know if 
the comparison site did offer him policies from other insurers or what the premiums for those 
were. But Mr S didn't go ahead and buy another policy having received those quotes. Its 
also a fact that after he gave his job title as shop assistant Mr S was offered a Mulsanne 
policy, which he bought. So the evidence points to Mr S saying that he was a shop assistant 
to find a premium that suited him. But that wasn't the case and that led to Mulsanne voiding 
his policy. And in those circumstances I don't think there was anything biased, unfair or 
unreasonable in the manner Mulsanne dealt with Mr S claim and complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman