DRN-2037604
The complaint
Mrs E says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to her. 
Mrs E has told us the lending was unaffordable and caused her financial difficulties. She had 
to take out more borrowing. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans Cashfloat provided to Mrs E between April 
and September 2017. Mrs Es borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/04/2017 30/06/2017 3 £500.00 £236.60
2 04/07/2017 31/08/2017 2 £500.00 £333.14
3 29/09/2017 27/07/2018 4 £500.00 £203.86
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Es complaint and didnt think any of the lending should have 
been given. They thought that the information that Cashfloat had gathered prior to lending to 
Mrs E should have prompted it to have carried out further checks into her financial 
circumstances. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators. It said it was aware that Mrs E had other lending 
before it agreed to loan one but that according to its analysis, Mrs E wasnt in financial 
distress and was able to meet her commitments. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mrs E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Cashfloat says it was aware that Mrs E had other lending but that it didnt cause her any 
financial difficulty. Cashfloat has provided us with the credit check it carried out for Mrs E 
before agreeing to lend to her. As pointed out by the adjudicator, there several entries on the 
report that suggest Mrs E had taken some type of lending within the previous six months. 
The report doesnt give all of the details about any of the lending and it isnt clear whether 
the Last update date is in fact accurate as some of those dates pre-dates the Opening 
Date of the lending itself. 
In its response to the adjudicator Cashfloat has said that its very common for credit reports 
to contain inaccurate information but that its own systems seek to audit the information 
contained in credit check. But I dont think this went far enough to check whether it was right 
to lend to Mrs E and I think Cashfloat should have done more to verify the information given 
in that credit report in order to build a bigger picture of her financial situation. There was 
enough uncertainty in the information it did have to suggest it wasnt an accurate reflection of 
Mrs Es financial circumstances.
Cashfloat should have sought further information and evidence from Mrs E  such as asking 
for copies of her pay slips, evidence of her outgoings by asking for copies or bills or her bank 
statements  as examples. If it had done so I think it would have seen that Mrs E had been a 
regular user of payday lenders and still had other short-term lending with other credit 
providers and was still making repayments on those loans. So, I think Mrs Es borrowing behaviour would indicate that Mrs E was struggling with her 
finances and her lending would suggest that she was juggling her money in order to make 
ends meet. I dont think its unreasonable to assume that if Cashfloat had built a more 
accurate picture about Mrs Es finances it would have concluded that Mrs E was having 
problems managing her money and that there was a real risk that she wasnt in the position 
to sustainably make the loan repayments. I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to the 
lending. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans one to three and 
Cashfloat should put things right. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs E paid on loans one to three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to three from Mrs Es credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Es complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman