DRN-2301923
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited have charged too much 
after he cancelled his taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought a policy online through an aggregator website. He said he input the correct 
details about the taxi badge he held and a few days later phoned up to check everything was 
ok with the policy. During this call he mentioned that he had two taxi badges. Freeway said 
hed only declared one badge when buying the policy and as he had two, there would be an 
additional premium. 
Mr S was unhappy about this as he said hed already given details of the second badge. He 
later said there hadnt been anywhere to give details of the second badge. Freeways agent 
contacted the insurer who agreed to waive the additional premium on the basis that there 
hadnt been anywhere to input the details of the second badge.
Freeway looked into the complaint further and said its agent had made a mistake in agreeing 
there hadnt been anywhere to give the details of the second badge. Freeway said the 
aggregator site transferred Mr S to Freeways website where it asked if he had one, or 
multiple, badges. Freeway said as Mr S had given the wrong information he would need to 
pay the additional premium. Mr S asked to cancel the policy instead. 
Freeway refunded Mr Ss premium from the insurer but deducted a £150 set up fee, £25 
administration fee for the mid-term adjustment and £25 cancellation fee. It said these fees 
were made clear in its terms of business that Mr S agreed to. Mr S thought this was too 
much. He said hed cancelled in the cooling-off period so didnt think he should pay this 
much. 
Freeway refused to refund any more money. It said there wasnt a cooling-off period as this 
was a commercial policy. It said its terms made it clear that the set-up fee was non-
refundable, so Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said he was an individual, so he wasnt 
a commercial customer. He said hed given the correct information when buying the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint be upheld. He didnt think Mr S had 
provided the information hed been asked for correctly. And he thought Freeway had applied 
the fees set out in its terms of business fairly. Mr S didnt agree. He said he had two different 
types of taxi licence and they shouldnt both be considered badges. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Before issuing a final decision I asked Freeway to refund the £25 amendment fee, because 
Mr S cancelled his policy rather than amending it. Freeway agreed to this, but Mr S didnt 
think it went far enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Freeways Terms of Business has a fees and charges section. This says Freeway charges 
£150 (non-refundable) to set up the policy, £25 for mid-term adjustments and £25 
cancellation fee. I think this is clearly set out in the terms of business, so Ive thought about 
whether theyve been applied fairly. 
I understand that the aggregator site only gives the option to provide details of one badge. 
Mr S was then transferred to Freeways website after selecting to buy this policy. Ive seen 
the questions on Freeways website that Mr S would have had to complete, as well as the 
aggregators site, in order to buy the policy. One asks whether Mr S has a single badge or 
multiple badges. Freeway has shown that if Mr S had answered multiple badges he wouldnt 
have been able to buy the policy online. I can also see from the Statement of Fact that only 
one badge is listed. So, I dont think Mr S gave details of the two badges. 
Ive considered Mr Ss point that he shouldnt be described as having two taxi badges, but I 
dont agree. While the badges might be for different types of hire I think they enable him to 
drive a taxi in two different areas. So, its reasonable for Freeway to say he should have said 
he had multiple badges. 
I dont think Mr S answered Freeways questions correctly when he bought the policy. That 
means he either had the option to pay the additional premium for his policy or cancel it. As 
he chose to cancel the policy, Freeways fees apply. 
I think its fair that Freeway charges the non-refundable set-up fee and the cancellation fee 
as it carried out these tasks and its fair that its paid for them. I appreciate Mr S cancelled 
the policy shortly after buying it but that doesnt mean these charges dont apply.
Mr S has pointed out the regulations around consumer contracts and thinks these should 
apply. Mr S isnt considered a consumer under these regulations. Thats because even 
though hes an individual, hes not acting for purposes outside his trade, craft or profession. 
So, he isnt entitled to a cooling-off period in the same way as a consumer contract. 
However, even though Mr S isnt a consumer, I still think its fair that Freeway only charge 
him a proportionate amount. And given the work involved in setting up a commercial policy, I 
think thats what Freeway has done. From my experience of other policies, I dont think the 
set-up or cancellation fees are an unusual amount and I think theyre proportionate to the 
administration task involved. That means Im not going to ask Freeway to refund the set-up 
or cancellation fee.
Im pleased that Freeway has agreed to refund the £25 adjustment fee as Mr S cancelled his 
policy, rather than amending it. So, I dont think he should have been charged for both.
My final decision
My final decision is that Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited should refund Mr S the £25 
adjustment fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman