DRN-3710398
The complaint
Ms E complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt credited her account with money she 
deposited using an ATM.
What happened
Ms E used an outside branch ATM late one evening in May 2022 to check her account 
balance and deposit some cash. Ms E explains that she selected the cheque option for her 
deposit, but deposited £305 in cash into the ATM. This amount then didnt appear in her 
account, so she contacted Santander and complained.
Santander looked into the matter and checked the records for the ATM Ms E used. It said no 
cash was found in the cheque compartment of the ATM by staff. And the cash in the 
machine balanced, so Ms Es money wasnt in the machine as a surplus, but just not 
credited to her account. Ms E disagreed and brought her case to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. She explained that the ATM wasnt 
accepting cash as it was full  which is why only the cheque option wouldve been available 
to Ms E. She was satisfied that the ATM balanced and that the machine wouldnt have 
accepted the cash due to this section being full. Ms E asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from Ms Es account activity that she was at the ATM in question and did want to 
deposit funds. I can see she attempted to deposit a cheque four times while using the ATM. 
However, she didnt have a cheque to deposit and the ATM log shows that all four times an 
error message was generated and Ms Es card was ejected from the machine. The ATM 
doesnt show that any deposits were accepted by the machine in relation to Ms Es account.
I appreciate Ms E says she deposited this money. But I cant see how she wouldve been 
able to do this considering the cash tray of the ATM was full. While Ms E says she selected 
cheque and then deposited £305 in cash, I cant see how this was possible. These are two 
different processes in the machine. When selecting that she was paying in a cheque, the 
machine would then review the cheque that had been inserted. If Ms E inserted cash instead 
of a cheque, Id expect the machine wouldnt accept this and would return it to her. This fits 
with the ATM log that shows Ms E repeatedly selected the option relating to cheque 
deposits, but each time this process results in an error and her card being returned to her.
Based on the evidence we hold I cant agree Santander has done anything wrong. Im more 
persuaded by the records produced by the ATM machine, which state that Ms E wasnt able 
to deposit any funds via that ATM. As such, I cant say Santander needed to credit any funds 
to Ms E, as theres no record of any amount being paid into her account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman