DRN-2923001
The complaint
Ms F has complained that a settlement sum Zurich Insurance PLC has offered for damage to 
her bathroom and kitchen is too low. Ms F made a claim under her buildings insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms Fs property was damaged due to a leak from a first floor bathroom. Ms F made a claim 
to her insurer, Zurich. 
Zurich offered Ms F a cash settlement of £2,606.50 for outstanding repairs to the kitchen and 
bathroom after some repair works had been carried out by an approved contractor. Ms F 
said this wasnt enough so she complained to Zurich. She said shed provided quotes which 
were for £4,200 and £6,500 for the repairs to the kitchen alone.
In March 2021 Zurich said the settlement amount was fair and in line with the scope of works 
carried out. It paid Ms F £100 compensation for providing an earlier incorrect settlement offer 
as it didnt include replacing a kitchen worktop.
Ms F asked us to look at her complaint. She said she accepted the compensation sum but 
the settlement sum was too low. 
Our investigator thought Zurich had acted reasonably. 
Ms F didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F says that she has replaced her kitchen. She says cabinets that were taken down by the 
contractors needed to be replaced. Ms F says they were left in the back garden and the 
contractor told her they couldnt be reused.
Ms F has provided photos of the water damaged kitchen wall after one of the cabinets were 
removed and asked if it would have been okay to put the existing cabinet back up after the 
wall was repaired. 
Zurich says the kitchen cabinets had to be removed to allow for drying of the water damaged 
wall, but the cabinets werent damaged by the leak and hadnt been disposed of. When an 
assessor visited Ms Fs home in October 2020, Ms F identified several points of concern. 
Zurich has provided a copy of the assessors report. The assessor found some of the 
damage Ms F identified was due to poor workmanship, but not all. There was no reference 
to the kitchen cabinets which had been taken down from the damaged wall. 
Zurich has dealt with Ms Fs complaint about the workmanship of previous contractors 
separately, which this service has investigated. So it doesnt form part of my decision here. I 
dont have enough to safely conclude that the kitchen cabinets removed from the damaged 
kitchen wall could not be reused and were disposed of. The photos of the wall Ms F has 
provided dont enable me to conclude that the existing cabinets  or any cabinet  could not 
be put back on the wall after repair. And Im mindful of my findings in this decision 
overlapping with separate complaints this service has already investigated.
Zurich offered Ms F a cash settlement for the rectification repairs identified by the assessor 
in October 2020 due to the problems Ms F had with the previous contractors work. The 
scope of works provided by the assessor sets out details of the outstanding repairs to both 
the bathroom and kitchen totalling £2,606.50. 
Ms Fs policy with Zurich says it can decide to settle a claim by either carrying out the repairs 
or paying a cash settlement for Ms F to use her own supplier. Ms F says the settlement 
doesnt cover the works. The quotes Ms F provided for her kitchen are to remove and 
replace the entire kitchen. As I dont think Zurich is responsible for replacing the kitchen in 
full  but for the incident related damage  I dont think the quotes provided by Ms F can be 
compared with the scope of works provided by the assessor as they arent for the same 
work. The cash settlement based on the assessors scope of works are to repair damage 
covered under the policy. 
Ms F says the bathroom ceiling cannot be painted as it needs to be dried out. She has 
provided screenshots of messages between her and a builder. The builder wrote that the 
bathroom ceiling is too damp to paint as the condensation has soaked into the plaster. 
Ms F says the ceiling will require several days of drying out and this will require her and her 
family to move into alternative accommodation during this time. Ms F wants to know when 
this will be done and who will pay for it. 
We contacted Zurich about this new issue. Zurich has offered to arrange an inspection of Ms 
Fs bathroom ceiling. Ms F has agreed. 
I understand Ms F will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I think 
Zurich has done enough to resolve Ms Fs complaint. So Im not asking it to pay any more 
than the cash settlement offered of £2,606.50 for the rectification repairs to the kitchen and 
bathroom. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Zurich Insurance Plcs cash settlement offer of £2,606.50 is 
fair and reasonable. 
I require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay the cash settlement to Ms F if it hasnt already paid it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman