DRN-2026554
The complaint
This complaint relates to a buy-to-let mortgage application made to Paratus AMC Limited 
(trading as Foundation Home Loans) by X, a limited company.
The complaint has been brought to us by Mr V in his capacity as a director of X. Mr V has 
said that delays in the process led to the property purchase falling through.
What happened
The property X was looking to buy was a HMO that had gone through an auction. Although X 
agreed to buy the property outside of the auction, terms were agreed that broadly reflected 
an auction purchase, including a set completion date.
The application was submitted by Xs mortgage broker on 19 December 2018. On 
21 December Paratus told the broker what documents were outsatnding. Information was 
received from the broker on 24 December, and on 28 December Paratus confirmed what 
was still needed.
That information was received on 4 January 2019 and the valuation was instructed. The 
valaution was undertaken on 7 January and Paratus received the report on 9 January. A 
mortgage offer was issued on 10 January.
At this point the parties were unaware that the broker had input Xs address incorrectly, and 
as the mortgage offer was emailed to Mr V by the broker it seems Xs non-receipt by post 
wasnt picked up on. The directors of X signed to accept the mortgage offer on 13 January 
and that acceptance and declaration was sent to Paratus.
Meanwhile the surveyor had revised the valuation report following feedback from X on the 
reinstatement value, with a revised report (with a lower reinstatement value) provided to 
Paratus by the surveyor on 16 January.
As this was a material change a revised mortgage offer was issued on 17 January.
On 30 January the broker contacted Paratus to find out if completion was due to happen that 
day. At which point Paratus explained it didnt have the signed acceptance and declaration. 
The following day the broker told Paratus that there was also a delay because Paratus 
solicitor hadnt received most of the information it needed from Xs solicitor.
Paratus received the certificate of title on 7 February.
On 12 February Paratus spoke to Xs solicitor and said the signed acceptance and 
declaration for the revised offer was still outstanding. That was sent to Paratus by special 
delivery and Paratus received it at 7.30 the following morning. The funds were released the 
same day, but were later returned as they were received after the completion deadline which 
was noon. Because the deadline was missed the purchase fell through, which left X with 
various costs (which have been listed) but no property.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr V complained to all the parties involved.
Our investigators said we could only look at Paratus involvement, and having done so they 
were satisfied Paratus hadnt caused the delays. Mr V didnt agree and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr V wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed Xs complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome.
Whilst I can understand Mr Vs frustration that we cant look at this holistically, and apportion 
blame to each party as appropriate thats unfortunately not how our service works. We have 
to work within the powers that have been given to us, and those dont allow us to consider a 
complaint in that way. We can only consider complaints that fall within our remit, so even if 
we see wrongdoing by another party we cant mention it if that party / activity doesnt fall 
within our rules.
We cant consider a complaint about:
The broker, for the reasons explained by our investigator in her letter she emailed to 
Mr V on 23 June 2020.
Xs solicitor, because we dont have jurisdiction over solicitors.
The surveyor, because dont have jurisdiction over surveyors.
Paratus received the last of the pre-offer information it needed from Xs broker on 4 January 
and it instructed the valuation the same day. The valuation was processed the same day it 
was received, with the mortgage offer being issued the following day. So its clear at this 
point that no delays can be attributed to Paratus.
Due to issues with the reinstatement value, a revised valuation report was requested. That 
was received on 16 January, with a revised mortgage offer issued the following day. So 
again its clear at this point that no delays can be attributed to Paratus.
Its unfortunate that the broker had input Xs address incorrectly. Whilst Mr V has said 
Paratus could have picked up on the error thats not something Id expect it to look for and 
its not something that would be immediately apparent from the file. I cant hold Paratus 
liable for not noticing the typographical error by Xs broker of inputting the property number 
as 567 rather than 587.
The revised mortgage offer was issued to Xs broker and the solicitors. It was also available 
on Paratus broker portal, but Xs broker admitted it hadnt accessed the portal when it called 
on 30 January. Mr V has said that it wasnt obvious in any event that this was a revised offer, 
but thats not the case.The second offer has a large highlighted banner across the entire width of the page of the 
covering letter with the words (in capital letters and bold type) REVISED MORTGAGE 
OFFER. Beneath that it says:
This offer is a revised offer and replaces any previous offer bearing the above account 
number which is now withdrawn.
Please note that the original offer expiry date remains the same.
Enclosed are the following items for your immediate attention:
1. Your copy of the Mortgage Offer document together with any Special Offer Conditions.
2. The Declaration and Accepance of revised Mortgage Offer. If you wish to accept this 
Offer, please sign the enclosed Declaration and Acceptance of revised Mortgage Offer 
and return it to us promptly;
As a copy of this revised offer was provided to Xs broker and Xs solicitor on 17 January, I 
cant hold Paratus liable for the fact it didnt receive that signed paperwork back until 
13 February. And without the signed paperwork (with a wet signature) it was unable to 
complete the mortgage.
Whilst a copy of the revised offer was also sent to Paratus solicitor, it wasnt their role to 
liaise with X and/or Xs broker to ensure the revised offer had been received and accepted. 
Paratus solicitor was simply part of the process to ensure Paratus security was correctly 
registered and secured.
Paratus received the signed paperwork at around 7.30am on 13 February. Despite its 
normal turnaround time being five days, it released the funds that same day. Paratus had 
informed Xs solicitor the day before that the last funds release is at 2pm, so Xs solicitor was 
on notice that it wasnt guaranteed to get the funds by noon. Its unfortunate that the vendor 
wasnt willing to accept the funds to complete the purchase when they were received on the 
day of completion, albeit not by noon. But having considered everything Im satisfied Paratus 
wasnt at fault.
I can only order a business to do something to resolve a complaint if I think it was at fault. As 
Im satisified Paratus wasnt at fault Im not upholding this complaint and so I cant order it to 
pay any compensation. Im sorry we cant help X in the way Mr V would like, but our hands 
are tied to what we can and cant consider.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman