DRN-3612787
The complaint
Ms J complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of a
claim following a theft from her vehicle, and its decision that the car was a total loss, under
her motor insurance policy.
Ms J is represented in her complaint by Mr C. I will refer to Ms J throughout my decision for
ease of reading.
What happened
In December 2020 Ms Js car was subject to a break-in. Two windows were smashed, and 
the stereo was stolen. She made a claim to Advantage toward the end of December and it 
carried out an inspection of the damage. Its engineer determined the extent of the damage 
meant it was uneconomical to attempt a repair. Advantage told Ms J the car had been 
determined a total loss.
Ms J didnt think the damage caused during the theft was that extensive and complained to 
Advantage. It says it offered to arrange an independent inspection or that Ms J could 
provide a detailed breakdown of the repair costs. It says it didnt receive a response to its 
offer of an independent inspection and hasnt received sufficient evidence of repair costs to 
compare against its engineers view of the required repairs.
Ms J expected a courtesy car to be provided during her claim. Advantage says the car 
was determined to be a total loss. A courtesy car is only provided for the duration of 
repairs. In this case the car was returned to Ms J without repairs taking place. But it says it 
shouldve told Ms J earlier that it thought the car was a total loss. It apologised and offered 
£50 compensation for not doing so.
Ms J didnt think this was fair. She identified further damage to the underside of her car 
and a missing registration plate by the time Advantage returned it to her. She referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She didnt think 
Advantage managed Ms Js expectation effectively about the extent of the damage. But 
thought inspection or to review quotes for
repairs.
Our investigator says the policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car where the insured 
vehicle is determined a total loss. And as the claim was withdrawn the cost of collecting 
the car was payable by Ms J. Our investigator says Ms J should provide information to 
Advantage for it to consider the cost of the missing registration plate and the other damage 
identified. She thought its offer of £50 compensation was reasonable to acknowledge the 
poor communication highlighted.
Ms J disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining why I thought Ms Js claim should 
be upheld. Heres what I said:
My first provisional decision
I have read Ms Js policy terms to understand what it covers. The terms say:
Whats not included? 
This policy doesnt 
cover:
-Damage to your cars windscreen or glass windows;
-Damage or loss of any audio visual equipment in your Car Advantage has supplied a copy 
if its engineers report. This says: Nature of Damage:
Forced entry into the vehicle via destruction of the right door glass. Paint chips in paint 
finish caused by glass fragmentation. Audio removed. Possible additional unseen 
damage.
And:
Engineers recommendation: Total Loss Category: N
Category justification: The damage appears to be to the outer panels, components & 
interior only & [sic] at this stage there does not appear to be any structural damage. It is 
however, possible that upon dismantling latent damages may be found.
The repairs costs are stated as: 
Labour - £594
Paint/materials - £303.32 Parts: - £818.64 Additional - £16.37
Total (inc. VAT) - £2078.80
The engineer calculated the repair cost at 95% of the estimated market value, which is why 
it was considered a total loss.
I asked Advantage to provide more detail about what the repair costs included, given the 
policy terms exclude the damage to the glass windows and the loss of the audio 
equipment. It says the damage wasnt only to the glass and refers back to its engineers 
report. I asked whether the damage internally referred to something other than the audio 
equipment. And if interior and components relates to something else, could it confirm 
what this was.
Advantage didnt provide further detail other than to say it didnt disagree with its 
engineers findings.
Ms J has supplied a quote to supply and fit the audio equipment for £368.98. I havent 
seen what it cost her to repair the windows or costs relating to other repairs.
I have thought about whether Advantage behaved fairly when determining Ms Js car was 
a total loss.Based on the engineers costing of the repairs against the estimated market value, the 
decision not to repair appears reasonable. But its not clear what the repairs include. The 
policy excludes replacing the glass in the windows that were smashed. It also excludes
replacing the audio equipment. From the images supplied  and from Ms Js testimony - 
this is the only damage that was caused internally. Referring to the engineers report, this 
limits the insured damage to an area of paintwork damaged by the shattered glass.
The cost of parts makes up a large part of the repair cost. This cant include the audio 
equipment or glass, but Advantage hasnt said what else this includes. The labour cost 
cant include work on these repairs, so the indication is that this is higher than it should be.
I have listened to the call recordings between Mr C acting on Ms Js behalf, and 
Advantages claim handlers. There were no discussions about the policy exclusions for 
glass repairs or audio equipment.
Based on this information I dont think Advantage has clearly demonstrated what the cost 
of repairing the insured damage was. So, it isnt clear that its decision to write-off the car 
was reasonable.
I think its probable the cost of repairing the insured damage was lower than Advantage 
stated. So, it could potentially have carried out repairs as opposed to writing-off the car. Ms 
J is liable for the cost of replacement glass and of the audio equipment as the policy doesnt 
cover this. But, the opportunity to repair wasnt offered by Advantage and I think it probably 
shouldve been.
Turning to the courtesy car issue. Advantage says its policy only provides a courtesy car 
whilst repairs are ongoing. I can see this is explained in the policy terms. The terms also 
say that no courtesy car is provided when the insured car is considered a write-off. 
However, I dont think Advantage has shown its decision to write-off the car was supported 
by the cost of the insured repairs.
For the reasons discussed, I think it likely that a repair couldve been arranged, and, in 
those circumstances, a courtesy car shouldve been made available to Ms J.
I note Ms Js comments that she also experienced difficulties getting her car back, which 
delayed arranging the repairs independently. She says she was caused inconvenience and 
distress as a result of being without transport. In addition to the worry of having to arrange 
repairs or potentially a replacement vehicle, because of Advantages decision to write-off 
her car. In the circumstances described I think Advantage is responsible for the delay in Ms 
Js car being repaired.
I have thought about the impact on Ms J as a result of Advantages decision to write-off 
the car. It acknowledges poor communication initially when not advising Ms J that it 
thought the car would be a total loss. There was a period of discussion when she didnt 
think the repair costing could be correct. And it took several weeks before the car was 
returned, and before repairs could be arranged independently. Ms J had to make 
alternative transport arrangements during this period, which was inconvenient and 
stressful. I think this was avoidable and so its fair that Advantage compensates Ms J for 
this.
Finally, Ms J says a registration plate was missing when her car was returned and there 
was some additional damage to the underside. Advantage says it will consider these costs 
further when it receives information showing the repair/replacement costs Ms J incurred. I 
think this is fair.In considering all of this, I dont think Advantage treated Ms J fairly when determining her 
car to be a total loss, and for the delay this caused in repairing it. Because of this I think its 
fair that it pays her a total of £300 compensation.
I said I intended upholding this complaint and Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Ms J a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Ms J says her car isnt a write-off and the Cat-N, which the insurance company assigned 
needs to be removed. She says the re-sale value of her car is considerably diminished 
whilst its registered as a Cat-N.
Ms J says she will provide a receipt to show the cost of repairing her registration plate. 
She would like this sum adding to the compensation recommended in my provisional 
decision. Ms J adds that she would like confirmation that when taking out insurance in the 
future the incident with the break-in wont be considered as her having made a claim. As 
she says this will likely increase her premium. Had she been told her window and stereo 
werent insured she says would have taken no action.
Ms J says both she and Mr C have spent many hours trying to resolve this matter and 
further compensation is justifiable. She says even considering compensation charged at 
minimum wage would amount to several hundred pounds. Ms J doesnt accept my 
recommendation for £300 compensation, which she says is grossly inadequate and 
offensive.
Ms J has sent photos of her car door where Advantage identified damaged paintwork 
caused by the smashed glass. She says these were taken shortly after the break-in. Ms J 
says there is an isolated scratch on the door that occurred more recently, but there were 
no scratches caused by the broken glass. 
Advantage didnt provide a response to my provisional decision.
My second provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I accept Ms Js comments that the Cat-N assigned to her car by 
Advantage is likely to have a negative impact on its value. In my provisional decision I said 
that based on the evidence provided, Advantage hadnt clearly demonstrated the cost of 
the insured repairs. This meant it hadnt shown its decision to write-off Ms Js car was 
reasonable.
The damage to the glass and audio equipment isnt covered by the policy and the only 
remaining repair related to the scratched paintwork. Having looked at the photos supplied by 
Ms J  I cant clearly identify scratched paintwork in the area where this is reported to have 
occurred. I think this adds to the argument that the decision to write-off the car, based on the 
cost of repairing the damage, isnt supported.Having considered Ms Js comments, I think its reasonable for Advantage to confirm that 
any records of the car having been considered a Cat-N write-off are removed.
I acknowledge Ms Js comments concerning her registration plate. In my first provisional 
decision I said it was fair that Advantage should consider this cost along with the cost of 
repairing damage to the underside of the car. Ms J can provide information to 
Advantage showing the repair/replacement costs involved. It can then consider this 
further under her policy. I dont think Ms Js further comments require a different 
outcome here.
I have thought about Ms Js concern that this matter will impact on future premiums. Its 
clear she didnt proceed with her claim and her car was returned to her. This means the 
records should accurately reflect the situation to show that the claim was withdrawn. 
Advantage should write to Ms J to clarify this point.
I understand that Ms J is frustrated by the time and effort involved in dealing with this 
matter. I also acknowledge Mr C spent time helping Ms J  but I can only consider the 
impact on Ms J as the policyholder when considering compensation. In my provisional 
decision I acknowledged the poor communication and time taken for Ms Js car to be 
returned to her and for the inconvenience and stress this caused. I thought £300 
compensation was fair to acknowledge this. By no means is my intention to diminish the 
impact this has had on Ms J. But having considered her further comments and evidence I 
think £300 remains a fair compensation payment in the circumstances described.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. 
Advantage didnt respond with any further comments or information. 
Ms J responded to say she accepted my decision. In her response she also emphasised 
the need to sell her car quickly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions that impact on my decision or provided 
further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Ms J a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused
her;
remove any records that show her car was written-off; and
confirm that it has accurately recorded the claim as withdrawn.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman