DRN-2603570
The complaint
Mr M and Mr P complain that they had an account with Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr M and Mr P opened an account with Bradford and Bingley Building Society in November 
2002 with a balance of £2,000. Santander took over Bradford and Bingley in 2008. They 
asked Santander for the money in the account in 2019. They were told the account was 
closed in 2008.
Mr M and Mr P complained. They contacted Santander in 2019 and were told they couldnt 
trace the account. Mr M and Mr P said they hadnt closed the account. If they had done so, 
they would have both had to sign (as the account mandate was both to sign)  and were 
sure this didnt happen. If the account had been treated as dormant, they wouldve had to 
give proof of identity  again, they hadnt done that. They said that the account and balance 
had been lost in the transfer from Bradford and Bingley to Santander. Or it was sitting in a 
suspense account. They said that Santanders record in dealing with those issues was poor. 
They showed a copy of the account application and a statement dated April 2006.
In September 2019, Santander said their records showed the account was closed on 19 
March 2008. This was before accounts were transferred to them from Bradford and Bingley - 
in September 2008. They had no transactional data or other documents. They confirmed the 
address on file was that which Mr M and Mr P said was the address. The account hadnt 
been shown in their books as dormant  as it wouldve been if it had been transferred to 
them as dormant. They had no other records  as they dont keep them for longer than six 
years under the relevant legislation. They wondered whether the monies had been 
transferred to another bank product.
Mr M and Mr P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. She said Santander had done the relevant searches to locate the account. There 
had been some confusion over whether the correct account number was being used in the 
searches  but it was. Santanders records showed it had been closed on 19 March 2008  
this was before the migration of accounts to it from the Bradford and Bingley in September 
2008  so it was likely the account was closed by the former building society. The last 
statement that Mr M and Mr P produced was from April 2006  there wasnt anything later, 
so there wasnt any evidence to show the account was open after then. On the balance of 
evidence, she concluded that the account had been closed and the balance paid out.
Mr M and Mr P asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about this complaint a lot. Mr M and Mr P are convinced  and argue 
passionately  that they didnt close the account. Because the bank mandate was both to 
sign, and related to a property transaction, they wouldve remembered if it was closed. Also, 
if it had been designated as dormant, they wouldve had to show proof of ID and address to 
withdraw the money  again, they said that hadnt happened. Theyve also quoted some 
media reports about Santander - Im not going to comment on those  its not the role of this 
service to make judgments based on those aspects.
My role here is to make a decision based on the balance of evidence. Where the information 
Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I must base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not to have 
happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
Our investigator looked hard at what Santander told us  Ive seen that. Santander showed 
us that in their records, the account was closed on 19 March 2008. And that was before 
accounts were migrated to it from Bradford and Bingley. So, whatever happened  it likely 
took place before then. Santander have no other records for that time  or for when the 
account was held at Bradford and Bingley - they are correct when they say theyre not 
required to keep them for more than six years. And if the account had been designated as 
dormant  they would have a record of that  and they dont. Ive seen the searches that 
Santander have done  Im happy theyve done all they can.
Mr M and Mr P have questioned whether the correct account number was searched upon  
there was some confusion whether this was the case or not. I can see that the right one was 
used  the only differences being some letter prefixes. I have seen the search that 
Santander carried out. Their records show the account number, the names of Mr M and Mr 
P, the correct correspondence address (as given to us by Mr M and Mr P) with an account 
opening date of 29 November 2002, and closure date of 19 March 2008. So, to me, that is 
fairly convincing evidence.
Unfortunately, Mr M and Mr P cant produce a statement after 2006  if they had, it wouldve 
been helpful evidence as to what happened here. They showed us the account application 
from 2002, and the origin of the money deposited  but this doesnt really help as it doesnt 
show what happened after that.
I can see Mr M and Mr Ps strength of feeling about what they say has happened  which I 
appreciate. But  I can only make a decision based on the evidence I can see. So  and I 
know that Mr M and Mr P will be very disappointed by this  I cant ask Santander to do 
anymore here.
Ive thought about how else Mr M and Mr P might go forward with this  and while they may 
not find this helpful, I offer another route they can try - UK Finance and National Savings and 
Investments operate websites which consumers can use to search for lost accounts and 
savings ( mylostaccount.org.uk). 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman