DRN-4202710
The complaint
Mr J complains about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltds handling of a claim for a 
damaged sofa under his furniture protection plan.
Fortegra uses a third party company to administer these plans and handle claims, and most 
of Mr Js correspondence has been with this company rather than directly with Fortegra. For 
the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Fortegra includes its agents, including the claims 
handling company. 
What happened
Mr J bought a matching sofa, chair, and footstool set in August 2020. At the same time, he 
bought a furniture protection policy, underwritten by Fortegra. 
In May 2022, Mr J made a claim on his policy. He said a family pet had damaged a sofa 
cushion and torn part of the footstool. Fortegra accepted the claim and arranged for repairs. 
These were carried out in or around August 2022, but Mr J was unhappy with them. He said, 
in summary:
The colour of repairs didnt match the original fabric.
Fortegras technician didnt check the replacement fabric matched his furniture.
The manager of the store where Mr J bought his furniture should it have been 
replaced because the new fabric didnt match.
Fortegra didnt uphold the complaint. It told Mr J his policy didnt guarantee to provide an 
exact colour match for repairs, that the repairs were within colour tolerance, and theyd 
been done to the best of its technicians ability. Mr J didnt accept this and brought his 
complaint to this service. He wants Fortegra to match repairs to the original fabric or replace 
his furniture.  
Our investigator recommended that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the damage to Mr Js furniture was covered by his policy and that the repairs werent a 
good enough colour match to the original fabric. She recommended that Fortegra either 
repair/replace the sofa and footstool, or refund Mr J the purchase price of his sofa and 
footstool.
Fortegra accepted our investigators recommendation and agreed to replace the sofa and 
footstool. However, its new offer wasnt the same as our investigators recommendation, so 
the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy covers him for accidental damage such as tears and rips and pet scratches. 
Fortegra hasnt argued that the damage isnt covered but it originally rejected Mr Js 
complaint, quoting section 6.6b of his policy. This says:
We do not guarantee that any repair or replacement will be an exact match of grain, 
sheen, pattern or colour. Any replacement parts will be matched to an inconspicuous 
area of the product and our liability is limited to the best job a[n] approved technician 
could do in the circumstances.
I understand it can be difficult to provide an exact match for this type of repair. And I note 
that Mr Js furniture was nearly two years old, so likely to have suffered some degree of wear 
or colour fade. 
However, his policy covered him for five years so I think he had a reasonable expectation 
that any repairs during this time would be acceptable. Ive reviewed photos of the furniture 
after the repairs were done. In my opinion, the colour of the repairs to both the footstool and 
the sofa isnt close to the colour of the original fabric. I dont think the repair done by 
Fortegras technician was adequate. 
Fortegra told Mr J that the manufacturer of your furniture can no longer supply the parts we 
need to repair it. Mr Js policy says: If the product cannot be satisfactorily cleaned or 
repaired, we will replace the product. In the circumstances, I think Fortegra should replace 
the sofa and footstool. 
Mr Js chair wasnt damaged. Insurance policies only cover damaged items so, strictly 
speaking, the chair isnt covered. However, I think the chair can reasonably be considered 
part of a matching set. It was bought at the same time and under the same code as the sofa 
and footstool. So leaving the chair out of any proposed redress wouldnt be fair to Mr J. 
Some form of compromise would be a fair and pragmatic approach. Fortegra has offered Mr 
J 50% of the price of this undamaged item. Thats consistent with this services approach to 
similar claims and I think this is fair.
Following our investigators recommendation, Fortegra offered to give Mr J a mandate  
otherwise called a credit note  for the retailer that originally sold him his furniture. I think 
thats fair for the damaged items. However, it should pay compensation for the undamaged 
item separately in cash.
Mr Js invoice shows his sofa cost £769 and his footstool £219. The invoice also shows three 
cushions cost £75. These are clearly part of the furniture set so Fortegra should include 
these in the mandate. Mr Js (undamaged) chair cost £489; 50% of this is £244.50.
For the reasons above, I think Fortegra should settle the claim by giving Mr J a mandate 
valued at £1,063 and pay him £244.50 by cheque or bank transfer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and order Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to:
Give Mr J a £1,063 mandate/credit note for the furniture retailer to allow him to 
replace his sofa and footstool.
Pay Mr J £244.50, representing 50% of the value of his chair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 Simon Begley
Ombudsman