DRN-3190573
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Payment Services Limited (Amex) gave incorrect 
information to him regarding a fraud on his account. He would like Amex to provide him 
compensation for this error which Mr O says cost him his job.
What happened
Mr O had an account with Amex.
On 30 September 2019 Mr O contacted Amex to let them know that his card wasnt in his 
possession and there had been fraud on his account.
Amex blocked his card and refunded him the amount whilst they carried out an investigation.
Amex agreed in October 2019 to refund Mr O and sent him letters confirming this.
Mr O requested copies of the October 2019 letters in March and September 2020.Mr O says 
the letters he received gave conflicting information.
He complained to Amex. 
Amex investigated and agreed that they had made errors in particular they accepted they 
hadnt correctly captured fraud information, they had given inaccurate information on at least 
three occasions and they failed to call Mr O back when they had promised to. They offered 
Mr O £150 in compensation.
Mr O was unhappy with the offer, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She thought that Amex had refunded Mr O 
the fraudulent transactions correctly. She thought that they had made a mistake in some of 
the letters theyd sent but the letter to Mr Os employer had correct information so she didnt 
think they should be held responsible for Mr O losing his job. She thought the offer of £150 
was fair.
Mr O was unhappy with the investigators view, he said: we hadnt understood the complaint.
Mr O is saying that because of the inaccuracies in the information that was sent to his 
employer by Amex  his employer thought that he was being untruthful, and he was 
dismissed and a CIFAS marker was added to his file. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the evidence Im satisfied that Amex acted correctly when they dealt with the 
fraud in that they blocked the card and investigated the complaint  in addition they refunded 
Mr O the amounts in question during the investigation.  This is what I would expect.
Mr O is unhappy because he thinks that the errors Amex have admitted to resulted in Mr O 
appearing to be untruthful and ultimately resulted in him losing his job and having a CIFAS 
marker on his file.
I have looked at the evidence provided to me including the FRL. I can see that Amex 
provided a letter to Mr Os employer and they have admitted that the information from the 
letter and the information on the emails did not coincide in respect of the timings of the 
disputed transactions. They have said the information on the letter to Mr Os employer was 
correct. Mr Os point is that this inaccuracy has cast doubt on his integrity and has led to the 
loss of his job.
I appreciate what Mr O is saying and I am sorry that he has lost his job. But in this case, I 
have to decide whether the actions of Amex were directly the cause of Mr O losing his job. 
And I dont think that they are. I say this because Mr O was able to share information with his 
employer about the disputed transactions and how Amex had dealt with the case. His 
employer would have had to carry out an investigation before dismissing him and Mr O 
would have had the opportunity to explain his side of the situation. I cant say that the 
inaccuracies between the letters and the emails from Amex would have been sufficient to 
provoke his employer to dismiss Mr O. In addition, I think Mr O could have checked the 
accuracy of the information in the emails provided to him by Amex before handing them over 
to his employer.
I know that Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant fairly say that Amexs 
errors were responsible for Mr O losing his job.
I have considered the £150 compensation that Amex offered for the failures in customer 
service experienced by Mr O. Having done so I think the amount is fair in the circumstances 
and in line with our awards in these sorts of cases. It follows I wont be asking Amex to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I wont be asking American Express Payment Services 
Ltd to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6  May 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman