DRN-4450244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limiteds (NFU) handing of a claim made under their home and lifestyle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a home and lifestyle insurance policy underwritten by NFU. In 
November 2021 there was a fire in Mr and Mrs Bs garage which caused significant damage 
to it. A claim was made to NFU.
As Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with how their claim was being handled, they made 
complaints to NFU. Across the complaints, NFU offered £750 compensation. As 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this, they brought a complaint to this service. 
That complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They considered what had 
happened since the claim was made and issued their assessment on 31 October 2022. In 
this they didnt recommend NFU do anything further as they thought the £750 compensation 
already offered was fair.
The claim continued after this point. And Mr and Mrs B raised a further complaint with NFU 
about how the ongoing claim was being handled. 
In May 2023 NFU issued a final response in which they offered £650 compensation (which 
was increased from a previous offer of £500). As Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, they 
brought that new complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered what had happened between the last complaint considered by 
this service and NFUs latest final response dated 31 May 2023. She recognised the service 
had been poor, but she felt that the compensation already offered was fair, so she didnt 
recommend NFU do anything further.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained to Mr and Mrs B by our investigator, my consideration here is limited to the 
period October 2022 to when NFU issued their final response on 31 May 2023. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs claim has been ongoing since it was made in November 2021, for 
events that occurred before the period Ive outlined, this service has already considered that 
complaint separately. Therefore, I wont be considering what happened during that period 
again.
Mr and Mrs B also made this service aware of ongoing and new issues more recently. But as 
explained by our investigator, theyd need to raise any new issues which occurred after 
31 May 2023 with NFU in the first instance, as the period for this complaint we are 
considering is October 2022 to 31 May 2023.
I dont intend on commenting on every event or communication that occurred during this 
time. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal nature 
of this service, and my role in it. And both parties are already aware of what happened 
during the claim and period which Im considering, and what happened isnt in dispute.
NFU already accepts the service they provided fell short. There has been poor 
communication, delays and poor claims handling and management. This is why they offered 
£650 compensation (which was increased from an earlier offer of £500).
A considerable amount of the delays have been caused by scaffolding being put in place for 
the render works first rather than the works to the roof being completed first. This caused 
delays as the render required the correct weather in order for it to be completed. And until 
this was completed, the roof couldnt be started due to the scaffolding being in the place it 
was. However, NFU recognise there was no reason for the works to be carried out in this 
order, and the delay this caused could have been avoided if the roof works were completed 
first.
Mr and Mrs B have needed to continually contact NFU, and others involved in the claim, to 
try to keep things moving, suggesting steps to be taken whilst suffering poor communication 
from those involved in the claim. NFU agrees the service they have provided fell short, there 
have been unnecessary delays, and a lack of progress on the claim.
I do acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B feel that further compensation is due to them. Theyve 
suggested around £5,000 for everything that has happened since making their claim in 
November 2021. However, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs B, for the period Im considering and what happened during that time, I do think 
the £650 already offered by NFU is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Therefore, I 
wont be directing NFU to increase this amount for the period Im considering here.My final decision
The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited has already made an offer to 
pay £650 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
should pay the £650 compensation offered, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman