DRN-3203307
The complaint
Mr D complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) did not correctly repair 
his boiler and this led to the boiler needing to be replaced. 
Mr Ds claim and complaint was handled by a third-party company on behalf of RSA but, for 
ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of RSA. 
What happened
Mr D had a HomePlan policy that was underwritten by RSA. The policy covered Mr D for an 
annual boiler service, boiler and heating system repairs, as well as repairs to a number of 
utilities. An engineer attended Mr Ds home on 17 February 2020 to carry out the annual 
boiler service. Mr D contacted RSA the following day to report a boiler leak and the same 
technician attended his home on 19 February 2020.
  
Mr D again contacted RSA on 15 November 2020 to report a boiler leak. A technician 
attended and turned the boiler off. RSA arranged for the manufacturer to inspect the boiler 
on 18 November 2020. The boiler remained turned off and the manufacturer deemed it to be 
beyond economical repair (BER). 
Mr D complained to RSA and said the manufacturers inspection indicated the boiler gasket 
was not replaced back in February 2020, but it should have been. And the failure to replace 
it was the reason the boiler stopped working and was BER. Mr D asked RSA to cover the full 
cost of the new boiler hed had installed. He said he was in the process of selling his home 
when the boiler failed and so paying for a new boiler didnt benefit him.
  
RSA responded to Mr Ds complaint in December 2020. It said it had not replaced any 
electrodes or the gasket. RSA said the last engineer to attend was in February 2020. And 
when the boiler began to leak after his visit, he re-visited and cleaned the condensate pipe. It 
said there was no evidence that work carried out by its engineers caused the boiler to fail. 
RSA acknowledged there were delays that meant Mr D was without central heating and hot 
water for 12 days. It offered Mr D £45 to reimburse him for alternative heating costs and 
£100 for the inconvenience and delay caused during the installation of the new boiler. 
Mr D responded to RSA. He pointed to RSAs statement in the complaint response letter that 
the manufacturers technician said electrodes were replaced prior to their visit. He said this 
contradicted RSAs assertion later, in the same letter, that it had not replaced any electrodes 
in the past. Mr D also said RSA indicated it had not replaced the gasket. He said this was 
the issue  that the gasket wasnt replaced when it should have been.
   
RSA responded to Mr D to clarify its position. It said when its technician attended in 
November 2020, he identified repairs that needed to be carried out. And RSA asked the 
manufacturer to do this work to ensure the fault was repaired in one go. It said the 
manufacturer noted the electrodes had been replaced without a new gasket. It said the boiler 
was deemed BER as it was 12 years old and because of the extent of repairs needed. It also 
said records show it had not changed any electrodes during earlier visits and so it had no 
evidence it caused Mr Ds boiler to be deemed BER.
 
Mr D was unhappy with the response from RSA and so complained to this service. He said 
RSA were at fault for his boiler now being BER. And he asked to be reimbursed for the full 
cost of the new boiler. Mr D said he moved home in December 2020 and so had no benefit 
from the new boiler. He asked for compensation for the inconvenience of having no heating 
or hot water for two weeks and to be reimbursed for the cost of the policy from the 
installation date of the new boiler, as it was under warranty.
   
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint and asked RSA to pay the full cost of the 
replacement boiler. He said although RSAs system notes dont mention repairs being 
carried out or needing to be carried out, a phone call was made by Mr D to RSA in February 
2020 during which he said the engineer is already making an appointment to come back 
because he said that theres a gasket needs changing. Our investigator said Mr D wouldnt 
have been aware the gasket needed to be changed unless he was told so by the technician. 
And theres no evidence the technician returned to replace the gasket. Given that the 
manufacturer identified the damage to the boiler as being as a result of the gasket failing, 
and this led to Mr D having to pay to have his boiler replaced, it was fair to ask RSA to pay 
the full cost of the replacement boiler, plus 8% interest. Our investigator said Mr D hadnt 
benefited from the new boiler as he moved home soon afterwards. 
RSA responded and said it agrees the deterioration of the boiler could have been limited, 
had the gasket been replaced sooner. However, as the boiler was installed in 2008 and was 
therefore towards the end of its reliable life expectancy, it offered to reimburse 50% of the 
monies paid for the replacement boiler. 
Mr D didnt accept RSAs offer, as he thought it should reimburse him for the full cost of the 
boiler. He also thought an award of £700 was appropriate for the inconvenience caused. 
As neither party agreed with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
I can see from the policy documents that cover for a replacement boiler isnt included on 
Mr Ds policy. So, the issue here is whether RSA are at fault for Mr Ds boiler being deemed 
BER and whether they should pay any or all of the costs towards the new boiler he had 
installed. 
I realise that since our investigator issued his assessment, RSA has agreed that the 
deterioration of the boiler could have been limited had the gasket been replaced sooner. But, 
for completeness, I will first of all look at whether RSA made any errors that contributed in 
part or in whole to the boiler being deemed BER.  
I can see that the call out notes provided by RSA indicate that checks were carried out in 
February 2020 and no issues were reported. RSA said the paperwork is incomplete and 
doesnt detail the work carried out by the technician when he returned after a leak was 
reported following the boiler service. So RSA contacted the technician and he recalled that 
the work carried out was unblocking the condensate pipe. However, having listened to a call recording of the conversation Mr D had with RSA when he reported the leak in February 
2020, Im satisfied that other work was planned and then not carried out. 
I say this because when Mr D spoke to the RSA advisor, he said the technician who 
attended the previous day was already making an appointment to come back, as a gasket 
needed to be changed because it had hardened over time. And Im satisfied Mr D wouldnt 
have made this statement unless hed been told this information by the technician. So Im 
satisfied the technician indicated that a gasket needed to be changed and that the technician 
had intended to do just that. Having looked at the manufacturers report from November 
2020, its clear that the gasket hadnt been replaced as planned. 
The manufacturers report goes on to say the gasket had failed causing damage to the boiler 
and that electrodes had been replaced without a new gasket. My understanding of this is 
that the gasket should have been replaced when the electrodes were  and I think its likely 
the technician replaced the electrodes in February 2020  and this is the cause of the 
damage to the boiler. From what I can see, this was the only cause of damage highlighted 
on the manufacturers report. So, I think its fair to say that RSA has made an error here and 
that its failure to replace the gasket has caused damage to Mr Ds boiler, to the extent that it 
could no longer be used and needed to be replaced. 
So the question now is how to put things right. I would usually ask any business whod made 
an error to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if the error hadnt 
occurred. Its not possible here to do exactly that, as the error led to Mr Ds boiler needing to 
be replaced and that cant be undone. 
But, if RSA had carried out the planned repairs and replaced the gasket, then I think its 
unlikely Mr D would have incurred the cost of replacing the boiler before moving house, 
which happened sometime in December 2020. So, the fact is that Mr D is out of pocket for 
the full cost of the boiler because of RSAs error. And he hasnt got any benefit out of the 
new boiler, given that he moved house very soon after. 
I appreciate that the boiler was 12 years old, but it just isnt possible to speculate about when 
it might otherwise have stopped working. So I think a fair outcome here is for RSA to pay the 
full cost of the replacement boiler, so that Mr D is not out of pocket as a result of its error. 
I understand Mr D was without central heating and hot water for about 12 days. Although he 
did have the use of an electric shower and electric heaters. And RSA has already 
reimbursed Mr D £45 to cover the cost of the heating. I dont doubt that this all caused Mr D 
some inconvenience. But Im satisfied the £100 already offered and £45 for heating is 
enough to compensate him for that and Im not asking RSA to do anything else. 
I also dont think that RSA need to reimburse any of the monthly premium costs, which Mr D 
would like it to do given that his new boiler was under warranty and so boiler cover wasnt 
necessary. This is because the policy covers a wide range of utilities, and Mr D had the full 
benefit of the policy for these while it was in place. Had anything else that was covered gone 
wrong, then he would have been able to submit a claim in the usual way.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to reimburse Mr D the full cost of buying and installing his new boiler and to pay 
Mr D the £145 offered by it, if this has not already been paid.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman