DRN-2671315
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Rentguard Limited mis-sold her a landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D took out an insurance policy to cover a property she rented to tenants. Rentguard sold 
the policy to Mrs D whilst another company provided the insurance cover.
Following damage to her property, Mrs D made a claim. The insurer declined it because it 
said the policy didnt cover damage caused by flood. Mrs D complained to Rentguard. She 
didnt think it had been clear about this limitation when it sold her the policy.
Rentguard said it had highlighted the limitation during a phone call with Mrs D and in the 
policy documents it sent her. It was satisfied it had been clear about the limitation. Mrs D 
referred her complaint to our service. An investigator considered it and didnt recommend it 
be upheld. Mrs D disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling the policy to Mrs D, Rentguard had a duty to provide her with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make an informed choice about whether it 
was right for her. That includes highlighting any significant limitations to the cover. Im 
satisfied a buildings policy without flood cover is a significant limitation.
Mrs D made two calls to Rentguard, buying the policy in the second. Rentguard then sent 
policy documents to her. Ive considered whether Rentguard fulfilled its duty when it 
communicated with Mrs D in these ways. I wont mention everything said during the calls 
and in the documents  only the points which are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
In the first call with Mrs D, Rentguard told her it considered her property was in a flood area. 
It asked whether she was happy to have a policy which didnt cover flood damage. It said the 
alternative was to refer to the insurer overnight. Mrs D agreed to receive a quote without 
flood cover, which came to around £250.
The next day, Mrs D called Rentguard again. She explored a quote for a second property 
she owned. She received a quote for it and was told it covered standard perils. Rentguard 
listed examples of what this covered, including damage caused by fire, storm and theft. It 
didnt include flood cover in this list. It said this property was also in a flood area. The quote 
for the second property was around £1,000. Mrs D decided not to proceed with it.
Mrs D went on to say shed received a quote for around £250 for her first property the day 
before. She discussed the price and, after the sum insured was lowered and a discount was 
applied, Rentguard was able to reduce the quote to around £200. Rentguard asked 
questions about the property, including about flood. Mrs D said her property had never been 
flooded but she was aware Rentguard considered it to be in a flood risk area. Rentguard 
said the cover for this property was also for standard perils and gave the same list of 
causes of damage as it did earlier in the call, which still didnt include flood. It said there was 
a limitation on the policy related to malicious damage by tenants  but didnt mention the 
flood limitation. She asked if the price and reduced cover level were the only things that had 
changed and Rentguard agreed it was. Mrs D agreed to buy the policy for around £200.
Mrs D says that because the quote for her second property was so much more expensive, 
she assumed it must have included flood cover. And because the list of things covered in the 
quotes for both properties was the same, the quote for her first property also included flood. 
She also says that if shed been happy to have a policy without flood cover, she would have 
bought it during the first call. She called back because she wanted a quote with flood cover. 
Ive thought about what shes said when considering what happened during the calls.
In my view, Rentguard made it clear to Mrs D during the first call that the quote for £250 
didnt include flood cover. It said it couldnt offer a quote with flood cover without referring to 
the insurer. When Mrs D called back the next day, she brought up the quote for £250. She 
didnt ask for a quote to include flood cover, query whether the existing quote included flood 
cover or give the impression she understood flood cover was included. Rentguard didnt say 
or suggest flood cover was included. It would have been preferable for Rentguard to 
reiterate that the quote didnt include flood cover. But Im satisfied Mrs D had been made 
aware the quote didnt include flood cover  and Im not persuaded Rentguard indicated that 
had changed. The only change discussed was reducing the sum insured and price.
I know Mrs D felt she was rushed during the second call and I heard her ask Rentguard to 
slow down or to repeat what they were saying a few times. Misunderstandings can happen 
during a conversation, so its important policy documents are sent afterwards  and are 
clear. They should give the consumer an opportunity to check the policy is suitable for them, 
is on the terms they understood it to be, and to make changes if thats not the case. It means 
that if theres been a misunderstanding during the sale, theres a chance to correct it.
Rentguard sent Mrs D the policy documents after the second call. She says she didnt 
receive them initially but did shortly after. They set out the lack of flood cover prominently 
and repeatedly. So Im satisfied the policy documents highlighted the significant limitation. I 
understand Mrs D felt she only needed them for future reference and didnt read them.
There has been some dispute about the flood question Rentguard asked Mrs D  and how it 
recorded her answer. Rentguard has accepted it recorded Mrs Ds answer incorrectly and 
later changed it. I can understand why this may have caused Mrs D some concern, but Im 
satisfied it didnt impact the flood cover. Rentguard has clarified the decision not to include 
flood cover is based on Mrs Ds postcode  not the answer to the flood question. So 
regardless of how Rentguard handled the flood question, it wouldnt have made a difference. 
Mrs Ds postcode was always going to prompt Rentguard to say it couldnt offer a policy with 
flood cover.
Overall, Im not satisfied the policy was mis-sold. Rentguard initially said the policy wouldnt 
include flood cover. At no point did it suggest otherwise during the calls. And the policy 
documents made it clear flood cover wasnt included. So Im persuaded Rentguard provided 
Mrs D with information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Mrs D understood the cover 
was more extensive than it was, but Im not persuaded Rentguard was responsible for this 
misunderstanding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman