DRN-4395963
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way in which Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
handled a claim on a group critical illness policy, including declining the claim, subsequently 
introducing a further reason for declining the claim and delays.
What happened
Mr F joined the group critical illness scheme in January 2021 and a claim was made on the 
policy in or around October 2021 as Mr F had been diagnosed with a rare blood cancer in 
the spring of 2021. Before then it was believed that he had a chronic autoimmune 
inflammatory disorder.
L&G requested and considered Mr Fs medical records, including a report from his 
consultant haematologist. 
The claim was declined by L&G in December 2021 because under the terms of the policy 
L&G will not pay: 
benefit for any insured condition occurring within two years of an insured person 
joining the scheme that has resulted from any related condition which they:
Have received treatment
Had symptoms of
Have sought advice on
Or were aware of.
For the above, the insured condition may have directly or indirectly resulted from a 
related condition. The decision as to whether something is a related condition will be 
based on the opinion of a medical advisor chosen by us.
Ill refer to this as the related conditions term.
L&G concluded that Mr F had symptoms of a rare blood cancer before joining the critical 
illness scheme. And due to these symptoms having been continually monitored and tested in 
the two years before being formally diagnosed in the spring of 2021. 
Mr F appealed the decision in January 2022. L&G issued its final response letter in April 
2022, maintaining its decision to decline the claim and relying on the related conditions term.
Subsequently, Mr Fs consultant haematologist provided a letter to Mr F, which was 
forwarded to L&G, dated September 2022. The consultant was asked whether the rare blood 
cancer results directly or indirectly from the three signs L&G had relied on to conclude that 
the related conditions term is relevant to the claim. The letter reflects:
the condition itself actually caused these signs which were evidence in your 
medical history. For clarity a medical condition does not result from the signs or 
symptoms, it is in fact the other way round, that the underlying condition causes 
signs or symptoms
L&G said it would undertake a review considering this and other medical evidence it was 
looking to obtain. 
This happened around the time Mr F brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
raising concerns about the way L&G had handled his claim and the decision taken to decline 
it. 
By way of a letter dated February 2023, L&G confirmed that it was maintaining its decision to 
decline the claim. As well as relying on the related conditions term, it also said it was 
declining the claim because he had the rare blood cancer before joining the critical illness 
scheme. So, it was a pre-existing condition and not covered under the policy. 
Mr F is very unhappy that L&G has maintained its decision to rely on the related conditions 
term to decline the claim. And that L&G has now sought to move the goalposts by including 
an additional reason to decline the claim which it couldve sought to rely on when first 
declining the claim  but didnt. 
Mr F is also very unhappy with the time taken by L&G to carry out various reviews of his 
claim, including not providing its final response letter within the timeframe of eight weeks its 
permitted to have by the regulator. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. He concluded that L&G fairly and 
reasonably concluded that the claim related to a pre-existing medical condition and not 
covered under the terms of the policy. However, our investigator didnt think L&G had fairly 
relied on the related conditions term to decline the claim and its reliance on that term  and 
subsequent continual reliance on the related conditions term - to decline the claim wasnt fair 
and reasonable. Our investigator concluded that Mr F had experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result and recommended L&G pay him £500 compensation. 
L&G didnt dispute our investigators recommendation. Mr F didnt agree. He raised many 
points in reply, but these didnt change our investigators opinion. Mr F requested an 
Ombudsmans decision. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the points raised by Mr F in his communication dated October 2023 and 
previous detailed submissions made to the Financial Ombudsman Service dated October 
2022 and July 2023. I thank Mr F for clearly setting out his points, which mustve taken him 
significant time to do.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised his complaint in far less detail than Mr F 
has, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an 
informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to 
be able to reach an outcome in line with my statutory remit.The relevant regulatory obligations 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says insurers should handle a claim fairly and 
promptly. And they mustnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Declining the critical illness claim (relying on the related conditions term)
Im satisfied that L&G didnt fairly and reasonably rely on the related conditions term to 
decline the claim. 
For the insured condition of cancer, the policy says related conditions include but arent 
restricted to:
Polyposis coli
Chrons disease
Papilloma of the bladder
Abnormal smear test
Any carcinoma in situ or ulcerative colitis
L&Gs communications declining (and maintaining its decision to decline) the claim relies on 
three signs being present before he joined the critical illness scheme as symptoms of the 
rare blood cancer he was diagnosed with in the spring of 2021. And thats why its relied on 
the related conditions term.
Its chief medical officer concluded that Mr F had symptoms of rare blood cancer and had 
sought advice within two years of joining the critical illness scheme. There may well have 
been symptoms of rare blood cancer, but Im satisfied that isnt what needs to be established 
for the related conditions term to be met.
The related conditions term refers to the insured condition occurring within two years of an 
insured person joining the scheme that has resulted from any related condition which 
they have received treatment for, had symptoms of, have sought advice on or were aware of 
(my emphasis).
Im therefore satisfied, for this term to be relevant, it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
there to be persuasive evidence that the related condition (or conditions) caused the insured 
condition (in this case rare blood cancer).   
The related conditions term also says that the decision as to whether something is a related 
condition will be based on the opinion of a medical advisor chosen by L&G. But Im satisfied 
L&G needs to act reasonably when relying on that opinion. That will involve a number of 
considerations including the expertise of the medical advisor providing the opinion and the 
reasons put forward in support of their opinion.  
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that L&G had sufficient evidence that the rare blood 
cancer resulted from any related condition or that this was a reasonable conclusion for it to 
make. Its chief medical officer concluded that Mr F had symptoms of rare blood cancer and 
Im satisfied that in itself isnt sufficient to reasonably establish that the requirements of the 
related conditions term, as set out in the policy terms, have been met.Further, Mr Fs consultant haematologists letter dated September 2021 - who Im satisfied is 
well qualified to provide an opinion given his expertise in this area  says that it is the rare 
blood cancer which caused the three signs/symptoms evidenced in Mr Fs medical history to 
develop. Given the consultant haematologists expertise in this area, Im more persuaded by 
what theyve said. 
Declining the critical illness claim (relying on the pre-existing condition exclusion)
I can understand why Mr F is upset that L&G has more recently, in February 2023, put 
forward an additional reason to decline the claim. However, just because L&G didnt rely on 
the pre-existing condition to decline the claim at the outset, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to find that its not allowed to rely on it at all - or that its waived its right to rely on 
that exclusion.
If the Financial Ombudsman Service had determined this complaint before L&G had put 
forward the additional reason to decline the claim, its likely in the circumstances of this case, 
L&G wouldve been directed to reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy, disregarding the related conditions term. And Im satisfied its most likely L&G 
wouldve considered whether the insured condition (Mr Fs rare blood cancer) was pre-
existing when he joined the critical illness scheme. 
Thats because L&Gs internal notes from shortly before declining the claim in December 
2021 - relying on the related conditions term  reflect that it was deciding on what policy term 
to rely on to decline the claim. 
The pre-existing condition term was mentioned. At that stage, it concluded that it would want 
to obtain further medical information (such as the biopsy and molecular analyses) to confirm 
whether Mr F had blood cancer before joining the critical illness scheme.
When reviewing Mr Fs claim towards the end of 2022, L&G did request further medical 
records. And says, as a result, it concluded that it was able to rely on the pre-existing 
condition term to also decline the claim because Mr F had the rare blood cancer before 
joining the critical illness scheme.
I know Mr F says L&G had all medical evidence available to them in late 2021 to consider 
the applicability of the pre-existing condition term. And that its unfair for it to rely on it now. 
Ill address that point later in my decision. 
But its clear that the pre-existing condition exclusion says L&G:
Will not pay benefit for any insured condition which the insured person:
has had, or undergone (sic) before the date they joined the plan
has when they join the plan.
So, whilst I accept that Mr F wasnt diagnosed with rare blood cancer until a few months 
after joining the critical illness scheme, Im satisfied L&G has fairly concluded that he had it 
before joining the scheme. 
Thats because the medical evidence reflects that a biopsy was taken in 2019. And although 
that biopsy came back demonstrating no evidence of malignancy nor lymphoma, it was this 
biopsy which was subsequently reconsidered in 2021 and then used to support a diagnosis 
of rare blood cancer. As that biopsy was from 2019, and although it was thought he had another condition before 
being diagnosed with rare blood cancer in spring 2021, Im satisfied that Mr F had rare blood 
cancer before joining the critical illness scheme in January 2021.
Mr F has also told the Financial Ombudsman Service that hes not in a position to challenge 
medical evidence regarding the relevance on the biopsy that took place in 2019 and how it 
relates to his diagnosis of rare blood cancer in 2021.
So, Im satisfied that L&G has reasonably relied on the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the claim.
The service received and the way in which the claim was handled
For reasons set out above, Im satisfied that the reason relied on by L&G when declining the 
claim in December 2021 (and subsequently maintaining that it was right to rely on the related 
condition term as the reason for declining the claim) wasnt fair and reasonable.
Had L&G concluded at the end of 2021, that it wouldnt be reasonable to rely on the related 
condition term to decline the claim, I dont think it matters whether or not L&G had enough 
medical evidence then to rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim. 
Ultimately, it had an obligation to promptly and fairly handle the claim and I think its likely 
that had it requested any further medical information it needed from the GP or Mr Fs 
medical team, and this wouldve been promptly received. And I think its likely it wouldve 
sought to rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim as it did in 
February 2023.  
So, Im persuaded that its likely that the outcome wouldve been the same. Mr F wouldve 
received a decision declining the claim (relying on the pre-existing condition exclusion) 
around the same time or shortly after the decision was taken to decline the claim for a 
related condition in December 2021. And Im satisfied Mr F would have always been very 
disappointed that his claim was declined. 
However, he wouldnt have been put to the unnecessary inconvenience of having to 
continuingly and tirelessly challenge that his blood cancer was the result of a related 
condition. That went on for well over a year and even in its letter dated February 2023, L&G 
maintained that it was right to rely on that clause, despite the consultants letter dated 
September 2022 (which Mr F also went to the trouble to obtain). 
I accept this wouldve been upsetting and distressing for Mr F at a time when he was still in 
the early stages of processing his recent diagnosis and receiving treatment for rare blood 
cancer. Im satisfied this wouldve made an already difficult time needlessly worse for Mr F.
I know Mr F is upset that L&G provided its final response to his complaint about the claim 
being declined outside of the eight weeks timeframe. L&G not replying within eight weeks 
meant he wouldve been able to bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
after the expiry of that period rather than having to wait for the final response. As it transpires 
the final response was sent in April 2022  around 12 weeks after the date of Mr Fs 
complaint. Receiving the response sooner wouldve enabled Mr F to know that L&G was 
maintaining the original reason for declining his claim sooner. But I think he wouldve still 
been upset by that decision as explained above. 
Overall, Im satisfied £500 fairly reflects the distress, upset and inconvenience Mr F 
experienced as a result of L&Gs failings in this case. Putting things right
I direct L&G to pay Mr F £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman