DRN-2865643
The complaint
Mr S complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited lost nearly £21,000 of his 
money.
What happened
In December 2014 Mr S tried to transfer some money from his ISA investor account with 
HBOS into his cash ISA. Unfortunately he was given the wrong form, which he did not 
realise because English is not his first language, and the result was that he mistakenly 
instructed HBOS to close his ISA investor account instead. However, since it was not 
possible to transfer the money directly into a cash ISA, HBOS sent him a cheque for the 
money instead.
When Mr S complained, HBOS accepted that it was at fault, and agreed to reinstate his ISA 
investor account. So in January 2015 Mr S returned the cheque to HBOS, so that HBOS 
could restore all of his investments as if they had never been closed.
Since then, Mr S has asked HBOS several times what has happened to his money. HBOS 
has replied each time to say that the money was returned to where it had come from. Being 
dissatisfied with those answers, Mr S brought this complaint to our Service in March 2020.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted HBOSs evidence that it had 
returned Mr Ss money to his ISA investor account, and had restored him to the same 
financial position he would have been in if the account had never been closed. He was 
satisfied that the money was all accounted for, and that it had never been missing. He also 
noted that HBOS has paid Mr S £100 for his inconvenience in May 2016.
Mr S was still not satisfied, and he asked for an ombudsman to review this case. He said he 
should be paid 20 million pounds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, because it is completely clear and obvious that the money 
has never been missing, and that Mr S got it back in January 2015. There is nothing new 
I can add which has not already been explained to Mr S several times, but I will try to put it 
as simply as I can. (If after that, he still does not understand, then I must ask him to take my 
word for it.)
In December 2014, Mr Ss ISA investor account consisted of nine investments, made up of 
49,725.827 units, worth a total of £20,889.54. When his account was closed, the 
investments were sold, and HBOS sent him a cheque for the same amount  £20,889.54.
When Mr S returned the cheque in January 2015, HBOS bought back the exact same nine 
investments  the same number of units, 49,725.827  and reinstated his ISA investor 
account.
The full details of the investments are set out in HBOSs letter to Mr S dated 18 February 
2020. The details of the investments bought in 2015 are the same as the investments sold in 
2014. I am therefore satisfied that Mr Ss account was restored back to its original state, as if 
it had never been closed. In other words, he was put back in the same financial position he 
would have been in if nothing had happened.
(The purchase of the nine investments are also shown in HBOSs letter to Mr S dated 20 
January 2016, which lists all of the transactions on his account up to that date. They can be 
found on page two: the nine entries dated 15 January 2015.)
Between selling the investments and buying them again, the value of each investment 
changed slightly. Two increased in value, and seven decreased in value. In total, the overall 
value of all nine investments had decreased by £325.99. So when HBOS restored Mr Ss 
account on 15 January 2015, its value was £20,563.55. That is how much his investments 
would have been worth if they had never been sold in 2014, so Mr S did not lose any money 
as a result of HBOS mistakenly selling them. They had declined in value because of ordinary 
market fluctuations between December and January.
I have thought about whether it would be fair to order HBOS to pay Mr S the difference of 
£325.99 as well. But I dont think it would be. If I did that, then Mr S would profit from what 
happened  that is, he would be better off than he would have been if the investments had 
never been sold, and at HBOSs expense. I dont think it would be fair for HBOS to be out of 
pocket so that Mr S can escape the consequences of market fluctuations. It is enough that 
he has been restored back to the financial position he should have been in  and he has 
also received the £100 compensation which HBOS paid him in May 2016.
I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that if the total value of Mr Ss investments had 
increased instead of decreased, then HBOS would have had to pay Mr S the difference out 
of its own money in order to restore his financial position. So if HBOS would have had to 
bear the loss, then its only fair that it gets to receive the profit when the position is the 
opposite.
Mr Ss account was closed again in May 2019, this time at his own request, and transferred 
to a new account with Santander. I am satisfied that the closing balance included the money 
he says is missing. It has never been missing. He has had it all along.
As I have said, HBOS has explained all of this before  a number of times, over the years. 
I dont think HBOS should keep having to do that in future. It has provided Mr S with 
satisfactory explanations and evidence, and now so have my colleague and I. I sincerely 
hope that I have explained everything to Mr Ss satisfaction, and that he now understands 
that he has had his money returned to him  but if he still does not, then I must respectfully 
suggest that he lets this matter drop. If he keeps on asking the same question, the answer is 
not going to change one day.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021. But my final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means that my colleagues and I will not be engaging 
in any further discussion about its merits.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman