DRN-1950495
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) offered him 
when settling a claim under his contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his contents insurance policy when he lost a ring belonging to his 
late mother. 
RSA initially valued the ring at £1,350. This was later increased to £2,000 when RSA 
accepted the ring was 18-carat gold, rather than 14. They offered Mr S £2,000 in vouchers. 
But said the cash settlement they could offer was £1,040, less his £100 policy excess.
Mr S said it wasnt made clear to him that if he accepted the cash settlement, he wouldnt 
receive the full £2,000. RSA accepted they couldve been clearer in their correspondence 
and offered £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
But they maintained they would only pay a cash settlement of £1,040 because this is what it 
wouldve cost them to replace the ring through their suppliers. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought RSA had acted fairly when settling the claim because they did so based on 
expert valuations and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He says he wouldnt be 
able to find an 18-carat gold replacement ring with the voucher. And if he were to replace the 
ring, hed do so by travelling to Greece to the place where it was originally purchased. Based 
on this, the only option available to him was a cash settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ss policy say:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead 
you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
Im satisfied this makes it clear that RSA wont pay more than they wouldve paid to their 
supplier when cash settling a claim. So, Ive had to consider whether this term has been 
applied fairly in the circumstances. 
RSA offered Mr S a cash settlement of £1,040. I can appreciate why Mr S is unhappy with 
the cash settlement offered to him, as its substantially lower than the valuation. But I think 
the amount offered is fair. 
This is because the policy terms say that RSA wont pay more than they would pay to their 
own supplier. The voucher has a higher value than the cash settlement based on the 
discounts RSA has with their suppliers. RSA has shown it would cost them £1,040 to replace 
the ring. RSA is entitled to deduct Mr Ss policy excess from the claim which leaves a final 
settlement offer of £940.
Mr S has said it wasnt made clear that the £2,000 offered was for a voucher and wasnt the 
amount hed receive as a cash settlement. I agree RSA couldve explained the settlement 
options more clearly to Mr S. But I think the payment of £100 for this is reasonable. 
I understand Mr S wont be able to find an exact replacement with the voucher RSA offered 
and can appreciate why he feels a cash settlement is more appropriate in the circumstances.
But under the terms of the policy, RSA only have to offer a replacement of the same 
standard and specifications. 
Ive reviewed the photos Mr S provided and listened to the description he gave to RSA when 
he reported the claim. Ive also looked at RSAs suppliers website. Im satisfied he wouldve 
been able to find a suitable replacement with the voucher offered. 
I appreciate why Mr S has opted for a cash settlement but RSAs acted within the terms of 
the policy when settling this claim. And on that basis, I dont think RSA needs to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman