DRN-3139788
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Hoist Finance UK Limited have handled a refund which was used 
to offset his debt.
What happened
Mr S says he had an outstanding debt on his credit card with a bank who Ill refer to as B. 
The amount was £411.01 and this debt was purchased by Hoist in October 2018. 
In April 2021, Mr S says he received a letter from Hoist offering him an arrangement to pay 
discount meaning hed only have to pay £226.06 of the £411.01 outstanding balance. Hoist 
let Mr S know if he couldnt make this in a one-off payment, he could make the repayments 
over three months, meaning hed make three monthly payments of £75.56.
Mr S accepted this arrangement and it was set up on 6 May 2021. Mr S made the first 
payment of £75.56 on 1 June 2021.
Hoist say they received a remediation refund of £357.40 from B on 29 May 2021  this was 
as a result of B doing a review of how they historically charged default fees and they felt Mr 
S was adversely affected by these fees. B wrote to Mr S to let him know that they asked 
Hoist to offset the outstanding debt on Mr S account by £357.40, which then left him with a 
balance of £53.61. However, as Mr S made the payment of £75.56 on 1 June 2021 (which 
was after Bs refund), this put Mr S account in credit by £21.75.
Mr S says this is unfair  he said he was in an arrangement to pay with Hoist and so B 
should have sent the refund directly to him. Then it would have been up to him to decide 
whether to pay off the outstanding debt. Mr S also says as the outstanding debt was £226.06 
and no longer £411.01, hed like Hoist to reimburse him with the £206.70.
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. She said the remediation refund was made up 
of default charges on the account rather than overpayments made by Mr S. So, the refund 
was correctly transferred to Hoist to reduce the outstanding debt amount. And our 
Investigator felt it was fair for this to happen. She also said as a result of Mr S debt being 
paid off, his credit file would be updated to show the account was now fully satisfied, rather 
than partially satisfied.
Mr S responded and disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he clarified his 
complaint wasnt about how the account would appear on his credit file and instead, was 
about the fact that he ought to have received the refund from B - as there was already an 
agreement in place to settle the account with the instalments he agreed to. Mr S said Hoist 
should have let B know that he had an arrangement to pay in place and that theyd offered 
him this to clear the outstanding balance. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels strongly about whats happened here  the crux of his complaint is 
that Hoist shouldnt have been allowed to use the refund they received from B to offset it 
against the outstanding debt he had. 
I dont think it was wrong for Hoist to offer a repayment plan to Mr S in order to pay at least 
half of the outstanding balance of the debt owe. I say this because, in my opinion, this was a 
positive attempt to help Mr S clear his debt. Hoist explained the arrangement Mr S entered 
into meant hed pay £75.56 and Hoist would pay £61.65 over three months to clear the debt 
in full. So, while Mr S would only be paying £226.06, the overall debt amount remained as 
£411.01. Having read Hoists letter where they offer the arrangement to pay to Mr S, I think 
they couldve been clearer in explaining that the outstanding debt amount was still £411.01. 
However, I can see that Hoist make this clear in the email copies Mr S has supplied where 
Hoist confirm the arrangement to pay offer is now in place.
From the information available to me, it seems Hoist were acting upon instruction of B as 
they asked Hoist to offset the refund amount against the outstanding debt balance. In any 
case, I dont think Hoist have done anything unreasonable here. I say this because as Hoist 
have explained, if there wasnt a debt outstanding, Bs refund would have been given directly 
to Mr S. However, as there was an outstanding debt owing on his account, this was used to 
offset this amount. I think this was fair for them to do as ultimately, Mr S still owed the debt. 
And because of the remediation refund being offset against the debt amount, Mr S didnt 
need to continue with the monthly payments agreed under the arrangement Hoist set up. 
Also, as a result of this, Hoist have been able to update this account on Mr S credit file as 
fully settled.
I understand that because of Bs refund and the initial payment Mr S paid (before he knew 
about the refund), this meant Mr S account went into credit by £21.75. Hoist wrote to Mr S in 
June 2021 asking for his bank details so they could pay the £21.75 to him. But Hoist have 
told us theyre still waiting to receive this information. Mr S should contact Hoist directly with 
his bank details should he wish to receive the payment of £21.75. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman