DRN-4096017
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the settlement shes been offered by esure Insurance Limited trading 
as Sheilas Wheels (Esure) following a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Js car was hit by a third-party vehicle, so she made a claim to Esure, her car insurance 
provider.
Esure deemed Miss Js car a total loss and offered a settlement which they said was the 
market value totalling £4,000. Miss J was unhappy with the amount offered, so Esure 
re-reviewed things and increased the settlement to £4,446.
As Miss J remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He considered 
the valuations Esure had relied on, whilst also carrying out his own valuations. This 
produced a slightly different valuation from two of the guides, but he said Esures settlement 
offer was in line with these, so he didnt recommend they do anything further.
Miss J didnt agree, and the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Miss Js policy says in the event her car is a total loss Esure can pay the market value. This 
is defined in the policy as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the 
price you paid when you purchased the car.
Esure determined the market value of Miss Js vehicle using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides, as outlined in the terms. Ive seen the valuations and they were based 
on the correct vehicle and mileage at the time of loss, these resulted in valuations of:
Parkers £3,655
Cazoo £4,446
CAP £4,108
Glasss £4,290
Esure initially offered £4,000 which was within the range of these valuations. However, in 
attempt to reach a fair resolution, they increased the settlement offer to £4,446, which was 
the highest of the valuations obtained.
Our investigator noted the date of loss had been incorrectly input by Esure when they carried 
out some of their valuations. So, he rechecked these. And he also checked another vehicle 
valuation tool we use. This resulted in the following valuations:
Cazoo £4,762
CAP £3,995
Autotrader £4,337
Whilst there was a slightly higher valuation produced by Cazoo, the offer made by Esure is 
still within the range of all the valuations that have been carried out, so he thought the 
settlement offer already made was fair. And I agree with this, so Im not going to direct Esure 
to increase this. 
I do acknowledge Miss J says she cant replace her car with this amount and has provided 
her own adverts following research online of similar vehicles for sale. But as outlined to 
Miss J by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering complaints about 
the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market leading motor trade 
guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation.
I also note that the adverts provided by Miss J are for similar vehicles, but some are different 
ages and some with lower mileage, which is likely to have an impact on the overall price.
Esure has used the same industry guides our service typically relies on, and the additional 
valuations obtained by our investigator also show the settlement amount already offered by 
Esure is in line with these. Ive considered the additional information and points Miss J has 
provided, but this isnt sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by Esure was unfair 
or unreasonable. Therefore, I wont be directing Esure to increase the settlement amount.Miss J has also mentioned that she thinks that rather than Esure offering a total loss 
settlement which they will then try to recover from the third-party insurer, she says the third-
party insurer should fix her car instead. However, I can only consider Esures actions as 
Miss Js insurer in this complaint, and they have offered market value settlement, in line with 
the terms of her policy. 
Esure explained to Miss J that shed chosen to proceed with the claim under her own policy 
with them. But if she would now rather claim directly via the third party, that was her choice 
to do so, and they could arrange for the claim with them to be closed. I dont think Esure has 
acted unreasonably by explaining the other avenues which may be available to Miss J. 
I also recognise Miss J is unhappy with some of the conversations she had with Esures 
agent when discussing the valuation. Ive listened to those calls. Whilst I recognise the 
settlement offer would have been disappointing for Miss J, I dont think the agents handling 
of these calls was unreasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman