DRN-3337945
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Opus) wont reimburse money he lost when he 
says he fell victim to a binary options investment scam. 
What happened
Mr A came across a binary options company called Golden Markets online. He contacted 
them and was promised that with their guidance on trading, he would earn large profits. Mr A 
invested £12,000 on 30 November 2018 using his NewDay Mastercard credit card. He 
initially saw good profits however realised he may have been scammed when he started to 
lose money. 
Mr A tried to withdraw money from his Golden Markets trading platform in January 2019 but 
was only permitted to withdraw £100. He contacted NewDay for assistance with processing 
chargeback claims for him on the grounds that the services were not as described (as it was 
a scam). 
NewDay declined to refund Mr As payments on the grounds that chargeback claims werent 
an option for him as he didnt have enough evidence to substantiate his claim. Mr A referred 
his complaint to this office. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He didnt think NewDay acted 
unreasonably by declining to process Mr As chargeback claim. But he thought NewDay 
should have suspected fraud based on what was known about Golden Markets at the time of 
Mr As payments. 
As NewDay didnt respond, the case has been referred to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I dont think NewDay acted unreasonably in declining to pursue Mr As chargeback 
claim. Mastercard significantly limits any chargeback options available for investment or 
gambling disputes. And I dont think Mr A had any valid dispute rights even though his 
dispute was that the company was fraudulent because Mastercard doesnt have provisions 
for specific disputes about companies acting fraudulently. 
NewDay is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr A for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr A using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by NewDay. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NewDay should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied Golden Markets were scammers for the reasons explained by our investigator. 
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
An FCA warning was published about Golden Markets on 25 May 2018  which is more than 
a month prior to Mr As first payment to them. Im satisfied Mr As initial payment should have 
triggered NewDays fraud detection systems. 
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr A before 
processing the payment to satisfy itself that all was well.
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr A would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; and so forth). There is no evidence that NewDay intervened in the payments to Golden Markets. It was a 
missed opportunity to intervene.
If NewDay had asked Mr A what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. NewDay did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr A was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that NewDay ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options dealers. 
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr A would have paused and looked more 
closely into Golden Markets before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to 
take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more 
probable that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not Golden Markets 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 
Golden Markets smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr As payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. But 
for NewDays failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr A would 
probably have not lost any money. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr A should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd (trading as 
Opus) to:
1. Refund all the payments made to Golden Markets totalling £12,000 and rework the 
account so that all interest and charges caused by those payments are refunded 
(less any refunds received from Golden Markets). 
 
2. Pay 8% simple interest per year to Mr A on any sums repaid towards the credit card 
balance arising from the payments at point 1, from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement. If NewDay is required to deduct tax from the interest it should 
send Mr A a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if 
appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman