DRN-3685358
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with unauthorised payments 
on his credit card.
What happened
In May 2020, a series of fraudulent payments were made on Mr Rs HSBC credit card, 
totalling a little over £400.
Mr R reported these to HSBC. Hes explained he faced a number of issues following this.
For instance, Mr R says he told HSBC he was abroad at the time and should only be 
contacted by email, but HSBC kept phoning him or writing to his UK address. He says he 
had to buy phone credit to call them and kept being passed between teams or left on hold. 
HSBC later closed his complaint, saying they couldnt get through to him. Mr Rs card was 
blocked and he was unable to use it or even access his statements to deal with the fraud. 
HSBC then closed his facility in error, and Mr R was unable to get a replacement. And HSBC 
continued to report the disputed transactions as an outstanding balance on Mr Rs credit file.
Over a year later, HSBC apologised and told Mr R theyd now refunded all the disputed 
payments and amended his credit file. They paid him £450 compensation. However, it later 
emerged that his credit file was still incorrect. And Mr R was still without his credit card 
account. So HSBC offered a further £100 and to arrange a new credit card for Mr R.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought that HSBCs latest offer was 
fair. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr R and HSBC a provisional decision on 3 May 2022, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can certainly understand why Mr R has found this issue most frustrating, not least given 
that we are now two years on.
As things stand now, the disputed transactions have all been refunded and Mr Rs credit file 
is now correct, so I understand that those things have now been sorted out. And HSBC are 
arranging a new credit card facility for him to replace the one they closed in error. I also 
appreciate that HSBC have offered £550 compensation in total to try to put things right.
But I think a higher level of compensation is warranted here. Mr R has been put to 
substantial trouble and upset over a very lengthy period. Hes had to put time, effort, and  at 
points  money into sorting out HSBCs mistakes, and I understand hes faced a number of 
customer service issues over the years while doing so. Things werent sorted out even when 
HSBC said they were. And in the meantime, Mr Rs credit file was negatively affected by 
HSBCs error and hes been left without his credit card for a long time indeed. And while 
I appreciate the efforts of HSBCs latest case handler, the replacement card still hasnt been 
sorted out and were two years on.
With that said, its worth keeping in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, 
and not to issue fines or punish businesses. And we dont award compensation based on 
daily or weekly rates. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and 
I need to be consistent with those. Taking everything into account, I think that £800 total 
compensation would be fair to put right what HSBC got wrong here, to cover Mr Rs costs, 
and to account for the additional delay. From what I understand, HSBC have already paid 
Mr R £450, in which case theyd need to pay a further £350 to bring the total to £800. 
In response to the provisional decision, Mr R asked us to delay the final decision in order 
to make sure the new credit card was sorted out. So we worked with HSBC to move things 
along. HSBC did sort out a replacement for Mr R in the end, though this took further 
months. They agreed to pay the proposed £800 total compensation, and agreed to pay 
further compensation for the additional delay after the provisional decision, which we 
proposed would be £100, bringing the new total to £900. Mr R thanked us for our help, 
though he explained that he felt the compensation amount was still too low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad that Mr R now has his replacement facility all set up. He asked if he could have a 
direct debit that took his minimum payment each month. He can  this is a standard type of 
direct debit for credit cards. I can see our investigator sent him links for how to set this up.
I appreciate that after all the delays and frustration involved, Mr R would like a higher award 
of compensation. But as I explained before, its worth bearing in mind that our role is to sort 
out complaints, rather than to punish banks or issue fines like a regulator. And I need to be 
consistent with our guidelines about levels of compensation. Taking everything into account, 
including all the trouble and upset Mr R faced and the time involved, I think that £900 total 
compensation is fair in this case.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
provide Mr R with an equivalent replacement credit card facility, which I understand 
from Mr R that they have now sorted out; and-
pay Mr R £900 compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman