DRN-3207615
The complaint
Miss S complains about a loan given to her by TFS Loans Limited.
What happened
In April 2014, Miss S applied for a loan of £8,000 with TFS to consolidate some other debts. 
TFS was only prepared to lend her £5,000 to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £193.19 
which she accepted. She says the loan shouldnt have been agreed as it wasnt affordable. 
TFS looked into her complaint but didnt respond in detail. It said the complaint was out of 
our jurisdiction as it had been brought too late, so it chose not to deal with it. 
Miss S referred her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked at it. She (and later 
another ombudsman) said the complaint was in our jurisdiction, so our investigator went on 
to consider the merits of it. She felt TFS didnt carry out thorough enough checks and didnt 
reach a fair decision to lend as a result. Our investigator asked TFS to put matters right.
Miss S accepted what our investigator said, but TFS didnt. It said (in summary):
Her credit file showed accounts were all up to date.
Consolidating her credit would reduce her commitments and allow Miss S to reduce 
her overall indebtedness.
Miss S had told it her salary was £1,300 per month, but it had calculated her income 
and expenditure using a figure of approximately £1,100.
It felt its checks were reasonable and proportionate.
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website - 
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Miss S irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able to repay the loan sustainably - that is, that she should be able to repay the credit 
without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to 
borrow further. Its not about TFS assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on her. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by 
a third party and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss S doesnt alter 
or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly 
repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower. 
I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought to be more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing was becoming unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
TFS obtained a payslip from Miss S and had a conversation with her about her expenditure. 
It obtained her permission to conduct a search of her credit file. It was satisfied with the 
information it obtained and felt the loan was affordable for Miss S. I can understand why TFS 
felt it had carried our reasonable and proportionate checks. 
But as Ive set out above, Id expect checks to be more thorough when the customer has a 
low income and where a relatively large amount is repayable over a longer term. In this 
case, Miss S said she earned around £1,300 per month so I think its fair to say she had a 
relatively low income. This loan was for a substantial sum with repayments due over 60 
months. So Id expect a lender to carry out very thorough checks in these circumstances. 
TFS used a figure of £1,106 for Miss Ss income, rather than her declared £1,300. Based on 
what she told it about her expenditure, TFSs calculation showed she had a monthly 
disposable income of just £8 per month. Some of the items given were very low, and others 
were missing altogether. For example, Housekeeping (food/drink, household shopping) is 
shown as £30 per month which is very low, and there was no allowance in the budget for a 
mobile phone despite Miss S speaking to TFS using one.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time TFS agreed this loan, 
CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment 
of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. Ive seen no evidence that, despite the tight budget, TFS asked further questions 
about her budget to satisfy itself that Miss S would be able to sustainably repay the loan 
before agreeing to lend.
Its fair for TFS to say that Miss Ss credit report showed she was up to date with her other 
credit commitments  and there were only three showing. However, all three of those credit commitments  a credit card, home credit and a personal loan  had been taken within nine 
months of this application, the newest during the last month. So I think there were signs that 
Miss S was beginning to rely on credit.
TFS has said that Miss S was consolidating her other debts which would reduce her overall 
indebtedness. But shed initially applied for a loan of £8,000 which was refused following 
checks on the guarantor  TFS said it was only prepared to lend £5,000. Ive heard no 
discussion with Miss S about the effect the reduction in the loan amount was going to have 
on her. Clearly she was not going to be able to achieve precisely what shed wanted with 
such a large reduction. What affect would that have on her budget over the life of the loan?
Ive listened to the conversation in which Miss S was told TFS would only lend £5,000. She 
asked what the repayments would be over five years and was given a figure of £156.25. 
Miss S said shed go away and work out if she could do that. So TFS was aware it was 
lending £3,000 less than Miss S had requested, but it had also given her the wrong 
repayment figure to use in her calculations. The true repayment amount (advised later in the 
paperwork) was £193.19  almost £40 a month more.
So, Ive seen that Miss Ss budget was tight, she was beginning to use credit regularly which 
she hadnt done previously and that TFS wasnt prepared to lend her what she felt she 
needed to consolidate her debts. In these circumstances, Id have expected TFS to take a 
closer look at things to ensure she would be able to make the repayments to the loan 
sustainably. I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I acknowledge that Miss S told TFS that her actual usual income was around £1,300 a 
month  and some of the payments on her statements support that. TFS correctly used a 
lower amount based on the payslip shed provided when carrying out its calculations. But as 
Ive said, that produced such a tight budget, Id have expected it to look further. Had it done 
so, it might have asked to see some bank statements to support her expenditure.
Miss S has provided some bank statements from just before and just after this loan was 
taken. They show that a number of the items of expenditure shed declared were more than 
shed said, and others hadnt been declared at all. For example, housekeeping had been 
declared as £30 a month, but she was regularly spending around £90-£100 on that. The 
mobile phone I mentioned earlier which isnt in the budget was approximately £27 a month, 
and some items such as car insurance and broadband had been understated. Theres an 
account fee to her bank for £15 a month and other items of social expenditure not accounted 
for in the budget.
Even using £1,300 as Miss Ss income her budget remains very tight. The items Ive 
highlighted above equate to around £150 a month more than declared, so while her income 
would be increased by £200 using the higher figure, her expenditure would be higher too. 
This would leave a monthly disposable income of £58 a month. 
There are other discretionary items of expenditure showing on Miss Ss bank statement too 
for which there is no allowance in the budget. I dont think that £58 per month is sufficient 
breathing space to allow for any emergencies or discretionary expenditure which may crop 
up, especially considering the loan commitment was for five years.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
I explained why I dont think TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when it assessed Miss Ss application. And I think if it had carried out further checks, it would have 
seen that her budget was very tight. I think it ought to have noticed from her credit file that 
she had recently begun to take on credit and, given her budget and the size and length of 
the loan, realised that it was unlikely to have been repayable sustainably over the five years 
intended. It follows that I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend to Miss S. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss S in some other way. But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Miss S, so I am 
upholding her complaint about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Miss S in 
the position she would be in now if she hadnt been given the loan. But Miss S was given the 
loan and used the money, so its fair that she should repay what she borrowed.
I think TFS should:
add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.
oif this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oif any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss S.
remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit file regarding this loan. 
*If TFS considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss S how much it's taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one so she can reclaim it from HMRC if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should put things right as 
Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman