DRN-3079729
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the terms of her loan agreement with V12 Retail Finance Limited are 
not what she had expected.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs P purchased a sofa. She paid a small deposit and the balance was 
financed by a fixed sum loan agreement with V12. She says that on the retailers website 
she saw that the loan was advertised as a 12 month interest free loan. But she says she 
later realised that the loan shed actually got was a four year loan with interest. She 
complained that she had not got what she had wanted.
V12 did not agree. It said that Mrs P had applied for the loan online, and the retailers 
website had made it very clear what loan she was getting. It listed four different loan 
agreements and clearly identified how long each loan would take to repay, and the interest 
rate on each loan. Only the 12 month loan had been zero interest; the one Mrs P had 
selected herself was clearly marked 9.9%, which referred to the APR. V12 provided 
screenshots of all of the stages of the online application which Mrs P would have gone 
through to show what it meant. V12 said neither it nor the retailer were responsible if she 
had chosen the wrong one.
Mrs P brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. She said 
the website had been clear, and that the loan agreement had not been misrepresented by 
the retailer or mis-sold. She added that V12 was under no obligation to change the 
agreement now.
Mrs P explained that she had thought at the time that if she chose the four year option, she 
would still be able to pay off the entire loan balance in the first year and incur no interest. 
She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have looked at the screenshots, and I think they show that the website made it very clear 
that the only interest-free loan was the 12 month loan. The other options available were for 
24, 36 and 48 months, and these all indicated that the APR was 9.9%. There is nothing to 
suggest that the first year of any of those loans is interest-free.
After Mrs P selected the 48 month loan, the retailers website took her to V12s website. This 
clearly set out the terms of the loan, including the total amount of interest she would have to 
pay, which was £415.20. It also said that the APR was 9.89%. Again, there was nothing to 
say that the APR would only kick in after 12 months, or anything else of the kind.
I have also read the loan agreement itself, and the pre-credit information (which was 
presented on V12s website), and they both set out the APR, and the total amount of interest 
to pay. They (and the website) also explain that Mrs P would have 14 days in which to 
change her mind and cancel the agreement if she wished, but she told us that three weeks 
had passed by the time she challenged the loan terms.
They also clearly state that the loan is to be repaid over 48 monthly payments of £50.80. 
There is nothing to say that this amount changes after 12 months, or that any interest 
already paid will be refunded if the whole loan is repaid early. (All it says about early 
repayment in the pre-contract information is You have the right to repay the credit early at 
any time in full or in part.)
I am completely satisfied that the website and the contractual information clearly set out the 
terms of the loan and the deadline for changing ones mind. The loan was not 
misrepresented by either V12 or the retailer, and it was not mis-sold. V12 was not obliged to 
cancel it or to substitute a new one at Mrs Ps request, or to waive or refund any interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman