DRN-4140131
The complaint
Mr H complains that AIG Life Limited has turned down an incapacity claim he made on an 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
Mr H is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In late 2021, 
Mr H was signed-off from work, suffering from stress and anxiety. In May 2022, his employer 
made an incapacity claim on the group policy on Mr Hs behalf.
AIG assessed Mr Hs claim. It reviewed evidence from Mr Hs GP, along with records from 
his employers Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and from occupational health. It also 
referred Mr Hs claim to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO). Ultimately, AIG concluded that Mr H 
was suffering from work-related stress and other social stressors. It said it hadnt seen 
sufficient medical evidence to show a reduction in Mr Hs functional ability due to a defined 
mental health condition. So it turned down the claim.
Mr H was unhappy with AIGs decision and he provided further evidence from his GP in 
support of his position. However, AIG maintained its decision and so Mr H asked us to look 
into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought the medical 
evidence indicated that Mr Hs symptoms were mainly due to work-related stress. And she 
felt the evidence showed that once workplace issues had been resolved, Mr H would be fit to 
return to work.
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he said his absence wasnt solely due to work-related 
stressors  hed also suffered personal stressors, which had significantly affected his mental 
health and ability to work. He didnt think AIG had placed enough weight on the evidence 
from his GP. He subsequently provided evidence which shows hes since been awarded 
universal credit due to ill-health.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 April 2023. In my provisional decision. I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for AIG to turn down Mr Hs claim. I said:
First Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr H needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It's also important that I explain the parameters of this decision. Whilst Mr H has provided 
new evidence both from his GP and from the Department of Work and Pensions in support 
of his claim, I will only be considering the evidence which was available to AIG when it 
issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint in December 2022. Its open to Mr H to send 
the GPs letter of 5 January 2023 and the letter concerning his universal credit award to AIG 
for its consideration. If Mr H is unhappy with the outcome of the claim following any 
assessment of the new evidence by AIG, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us 
about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I 
think AIG handled Mr Hs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of his 
employers contract with AIG. Mr Hs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for AIG to 
consider whether Mr Hs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. AIG provided cover for 
Mr Hs own occupation. Ive turned then to look at AIGs definition of incapacity. This says:
Own occupation:
A Member is considered to be Incapacitated, measured by their inability to perform, as a 
result of illness or injury, the Material and Substantial duties of their Usual Occupation, and 
is not following or engaged in any other Gainful Occupation whether as an Employee or 
otherwise.
AIG has also defined what it means by the Material and Substantial as follows:
Material and Substantial means: duties that are normally required for and form a significant 
and integral part of the performance of the Members own occupation and which cannot be 
reasonably omitted or modified by the Member or the Employer. 
This means that in order for AIG to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the material and substantial 
duties of their own occupation.
The policy says that AIG will pay incapacity benefit once the deferred period is served. This 
means that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line 
with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Hs responsibility to provide AIG with enough evidence  
to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties of his own 
occupation for the full 13-week deferred period and afterwards.
AIG assessed the evidence Mr H provided in support of his claim, including with clinical staff. 
While it sympathised with Mr Hs position, it concluded that he wasnt suffering from a mental 
illness which prevented him from carrying out his role. Instead, it felt that Mr H was suffering 
with a reaction to his circumstances that most likely didnt amount to a defined medical 
problem. So Ive next looked at the available medical and other evidence to assess whether I 
think this was a fair conclusion for AIG to reach.
Ive first looked at the claim forms completed by both Mr H and his employer. Mr Hs 
employer said that the nature of his illness/incapacity was that Mr H had been suffering with 
anxiety; feeling down (which was) related to work related stress. Mr H said hed been 
suffering from anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts, PTSD, work-related stress. He said his symptoms dated back to 2017, but that from February 2021 events at work had led to 
conditions worsening. He also stated that he wouldnt be able to return to work until his 
employment claims had been resolved. Ive listened too to a call between Mr H and AIGs 
claims handler. During that call, Mr H referred to the problems hed encountered at work and 
that he was awaiting the outcome of legal action.
Next, Ive considered Mr Hs GP records. These show that Mr H did suffer from work-related 
stress in 2017 and its also clear that he has been involved in road accidents. The records 
show that in August 2021, Mr H sought further medical advice. The notes state that Mr H 
had work-related stress and also refer to family stressors. The records say that Mr H had 
been referred to occupational health by his employer and that hed had counselling through 
work.
A GP record dated 9 September 2021 says that Mr H had ongoing work related stress. It 
also set out some of the specific work-related issues Mr H was experiencing. Subsequently, 
on 9 October 2021, the GP stated that: (Mr H) reports increased stress  all related with 
work. The notes do say that Mr H has family related stress which he is managing. A record 
dated 1 February 2022 say that Mr H was being subjected to work-related stress.
The note refers to legal action which was being pursued by Mr H. This is followed by a 
further note dated 23 March 2022 which refers to issues at work and sets out a more 
detailed summary of those issues.
A further record in June 2022 says that Mr H had had mental health issues since 2017 and 
referred specifically to the past year being more difficult. The note stated that Mr H had had  
work-related stress as well as family stress. It appears that at that point, Mr H was 
prescribed anti-depressants. The fit notes completed by Mr Hs GP between 1 February and 
8 June 2022 also all state that Mr H was unfit for work due to work-related stress.
Next, Ive looked closely at the occupational health report dated 9 May 2022, following Mr 
Hs consultation with an adviser. This set out a clinical assessment section, which included 
the following:
Mr H is absent from work due to depression and anxiety which he perceives to be as a 
result of workplace issuesThere is not likely to be any improvement in his mental health 
until the issues at work have been addressed.
The report also said that Mr H would be likely to be able to resume his normal duties once 
his workplace issues had been addressed.
Ive looked closely at the records from the EAP providers (which appear to include 
clinicians). These show information about consultations Mr H had with its practitioners. The 
majority of the reports conclude that Mr H was suffering from workplace stress and set out a 
more detailed background to those workplace issues. The records also show that the 
workplace issues had been causing Mr H to be absent from work and impacting on his 
mental health.
Based on the evidence provided, AIGs CMO concluded that: 
The index root cause for the absence here is evidently work-related stressThe situation 
specific to this employer is the problem, i.e. it is external to his biology and I am not 
convinced his symptoms have developed into a formal mental health disorder irrespective 
the GP has listed Mixed Anxiety and Depression. Rather, it seems more reasonable to me to 
categorise this as an adjustment reaction to stressors largely outside his controlOverall, I 
view this as a work-related problem with external stressors that most likely do not amount to a defined mental health problem. The only way to achieve closure is (resolution of work-
related issues).
Mr Hs GP wrote a letter in September 2022 in support of Mr Hs claim. They disagreed that 
Mr H didnt suffer from a diagnosed psychiatric condition. The GP said Mr H had been 
diagnosed as suffering from anxiety and depression. They also referred to Mr H being 
prescribed anti-depressant medication and that hed been referred for counselling and 
psychiatric services to enhance his medication. The GP stated: In my opinion, he does have 
a Significant mental health problems [sic] and I will be grateful if you could re-evaluate his 
claim.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr H was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition. Im conscious that Mr H was prescribed 
medication and referred to psychological services.
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to AIG in 
December 2022, I currently think it was reasonable for AIG to conclude that the evidence 
showed that Mr H was suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation 
in which he found himself. And that the main reason for Mr Hs absence was likely the 
workplace stress he was experiencing as opposed to a mental health condition. It also 
appears, from Mr Hs own account and from the occupational health advisers report, that Mr 
H wouldnt be in a position to return to work until the workplace issues had been resolved. I 
think this evidence points towards the cause of Mr Hs symptoms being the workplace 
issues. And that it indicates too that he was suffering from an understandable reaction to his 
personal circumstances rather than a functionally impairing mental illness which prevented 
him from carrying out his role.
This means I dont presently think AIG acted unfairly when it decided that Mr H wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition, during the deferred period, which 
prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for AIG to conclude that Mr Hs absence wasnt 
due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that 
Mr Hs absence was more likely due to workplace stress and a reaction to his 
circumstances. Id add though that I dont doubt the other external stressors Mr H was 
experiencing did impact on his mental health and I was sorry to read of those stressors.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Hs position, I currently find it was fair and 
reasonable for AIG to turn down his income protection claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
AIG had nothing to add.
Mr H didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman