DRN-3859726
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt refund a 
payment they didnt make from their joint account and dealt with them poorly.
What happened
Mr L explains that he contacted Halifax to dispute a debit card payment of £49.86 which also 
had resulted in a foreign exchange fee and some account charges. This was initially 
refunded but he is unhappy that Halifax re-debited them based on what he thought was 
inadequate information from the merchant.  He is also not satisfied with the way his calls 
about this were handled and to be told that he needed to contact the merchant himself when 
he didnt have any details to do so. He found out when he complained that the payment was 
made using Mrs Ls card, and so that Halifax had wrongly cancelled his and not hers.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that the payment had been made 
using Mrs Ls card details, their address and his daughters name. And it thought that this 
information was sufficient to show it had been authorised. Halifax accepted that it could have 
handled things better and paid £40 in compensation for poor service.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Mr L confirmed that his 
daughter had been given permission to use their cards in the past. But that this payment 
wasnt known to anyone in the household. The payment had been authenticated with the 
correct details and CVV number. But this wasnt enough to show it had been authorised and 
she didnt think that it had. She noted the long calls Mr L had made about this issue and that 
hed been placed on hold for much of that time. And that on one call the line appeared to 
drop. Hed also not been called back about his request to ask for more information from the 
merchant. And the wrong card had been cancelled. So, in addition to refunding the payment 
with eight per cent simple interest she said that a further £100 in compensation should be 
paid. 
Halifax said it agreed to this.
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree. Mr L said that a key question was whether this compensation 
was both fair and proportionate. Halifax had resisted any solution. He had spent some two to 
three working days on the phone and this left him stressed each time. Mr L said that the 
main satisfaction of referring the case would be that it would be heard independently. This 
would also help highlight the limitations of Halifaxs processes so no one else would need to 
go through the same. Mr L said he had the time to pursue this, but other consumers may 
not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to say that this service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent the 
regulator and dont have a role in reviewing or setting Halifaxs processes. 
Halifax has accepted our adjudicators opinion about whether this payment was authorised. 
So, I wont be reopening that. Its not in dispute that the merchant taking this payment had a 
significant amount of information including the card security details. And that the so-called 
order was in the name of Mr L and Mrs Ls daughter. The issue was whether the payment 
had been consented to. I can see that Halifax put weight on the fact that their daughters 
name was associated with this payment. And frankly once Mr L and Mrs L had allowed 
someone unconnected with the account to make payments the issue of authorisation does 
become more complex. 
I also want to say a bit about the chargeback process that Halifax used with this payment. 
That meant that it raised the dispute about authorisation through the relevant card scheme in 
line with those rules. It didnt have direct contact with the merchant and the information 
which I know Mr L had seen about the payment came back through the card issuer. And in 
cases about authorisation rather say than about non delivery of ordered goods, there 
wouldnt necessarily be delivery confirmation. It was a matter for Halifax then to decide 
whether that was sufficient. I can see why Mr L still considered that the information which 
didnt have the merchant website or any information about what was ordered and invoice 
inadequate. Although again it was a matter for Halifax to make its own decision then based 
on all the evidence and in light of the size of the payment and the lack of any other reported 
attempts at fraud.
Now that fraud has been accepted though I do need to set out that a considerable part of the 
inconvenience and distress was caused by that fraudster. There would always have been  
dispute process to follow. However, here there have been clearly been service failings by 
Halifax. I heard it clearly tell Mr L on his first call that the payment had been made using his 
card. And that it cancelled his card but said Mrs Ls card was safe. That left a compromised 
card potentially open to further use although there wasnt any further actual use. Ive set out 
the issue of the information from the merchant. Mr L also explains he was given an incorrect 
reference number. And had a number of long calls including one that was dropped.
We dont make punitive awards and Ive taken into account our published guidelines. We 
dont tend to base compensation on time spent or apply professional rates. Having 
considered everything Mr L and Mrs L have said and in particular the calls Mr L made I find 
that the compensation already suggested by our adjudicator is reasonable. I know Mr L and 
Mrs L will be disappointed with that and also as Im not going to say anything more about 
Halifaxs processes generally.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to:
1) Refund the payment of £49.86 including any related foreign exchange fee and 
account charges that resulted.
2) Pay eight per cent simple interest on this payment from the date of debit to the date 
of settlement.3) Pay Mr L and Mrs L a further £100 in compensation making a total of £140.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman