DRN-3029621
The complaint
Mr A and Miss J complain about their mortgage with Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide).
What happened
In 2017 Mr A and Miss J took out a mortgage with Nationwide. 
Mr A and Mrs J have now made a complaint to Nationwide. Mr A and Miss J say at the time 
of arranging the mortgage, it was highlighted by their solicitor to Nationwide that two coal 
mines were near the property. Mr A and Mrs J say they have now found out through their 
financial advisor, that as one of the coal mines is uncapped, the property will sell for a lot 
less money than they paid for it. 
Mr A and Miss J say that Nationwide shouldnt have approved the mortgage based on the 
coal mine being so close to the property  and uncapped. They say that the company used 
to value the property incorrectly thought that both mines were capped, and this turned out to 
be wrong. 
Nationwide investigated the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the valuation survey they 
completed (by a third party) was for the purposes of agreeing their risk and their own 
lending. Nationwide have gone on to say that it shouldnt have been used by Mr A and Miss 
J for the purposes of agreeing to buy the property - based on the value and information the 
report did or didnt give. Nationwide referred to a section on the valuation report that 
specifically states that a consumer should get their own survey done. 
Nationwide have also provided evidence that it referred the position of the two mines to its 
valuer, once Mr A and Miss Js solicitor had made them aware of it. And Nationwide was 
happy to proceed with the mortgage on the same terms it originally offered. The valuer didnt 
change their report and made this decision based on it being a new build property and that 
they felt it was likely the developer wouldve made the mine secure to be built on when the 
house was constructed. 
Mr A and Miss J didnt agree with Nationwides response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld  for largely 
the same reasons as Nationwide. He said the valuation report is solely for the purpose of the 
lender, in this case Nationwide, to decide if the property met its lending criteria. As such its 
not something which the borrower (Mr A and Miss J) should rely on to identify defects on the 
property.
Our investigator went on to say that the person instructed by Nationwide to complete the 
survey was suitably qualified and the report also instructed Mr A and Miss J to obtain a more 
comprehensive report on the property. 
Mr A and Miss J didnt agree with the investigators view and gave our service more evidence 
to support their complaint. Although Miss J in her submission said she felt the solicitor were 
to blame for not investigating the issue of the mine more, they also supplied a document 
from their mortgage broker that they say showed Nationwide and its valuation survey to be 
at fault. 
As the investigator that had completed the first investigation had left our service, a new 
investigator took ownership of the complaint and looked at what Mr A and Miss J had given 
us. He found the document Mr A and Miss J supplied showed the broker also indicated it 
was the property developer and solicitor at fault. Our investigator also reviewed the whole 
case file and largely agreed with the previous investigators outcome  for the same reasons. 
As Mr A and Miss J didnt agree with either investigators view, the complaints been passed 
to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the information supplied by both parties, its clear how strongly Mr A and 
Miss J feel about their complaint. However, having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr A and Miss Js complaint centres around the mortgage Nationwide approved and the 
information they had available regarding the two coal mines in the vicinity of the property. Its 
Mr A and Miss Js view that had Nationwides valuation report recorded that one of the mines 
were uncapped, they wouldnt have bought the property. 
When a business such as Nationwide decides to lend a consumer money for the purpose of 
a house purchase, they will nearly always complete a basic valuation report. Although 
Nationwide are not bound by any rules that say it must complete a report  they did on this 
occasion.  The report was arranged by Nationwide and completed by a third-party company. 
I have no concerns that the report was completed by a competent individual or company and 
thats also not in dispute here. The report Ive seen was completed on behalf of Nationwide 
for the bank to use. The report essentially looks at the risk of lending money and assesses 
whether Nationwide could recover its money if Mr A and Miss J were to default on their 
mortgage payments. On this occasion Nationwide decided it was willing to take on the risk, 
having considered the information in the report and what its valuer had advised.
Nationwide made the purpose of the report clear in its paperwork. The investigator has 
highlighted this previously, but for the purpose of this decision and the parties involved  the 
wording is below. 
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO APPLICANT(S)
This report has been prepared solely for the Societys purposes. It is not a structural report 
and is based upon a limited inspection. It may not reveal serious defects and may contain 
inaccuracies and omissions. It is unlikely to be adequate for a purchasers purposes and 
should not be relied upon.
YOU ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO OBTAIN A FULLER REPORT ON THE PROPERTY
The Society does not guarantee that the purchase price is reasonable.
The report wouldve been available to the broker who arranged the mortgage to share with 
Mr A and Miss J, and Im satisfied that its clear from the report that it shouldnt be relied on for the purpose of the purchase. Before the mortgage completed, Mr A and Miss J couldve 
researched the various survey reports available to them, and they couldve made an 
informed choice whether to go with a more detailed report and inspection of the property and 
surrounding area. 
Nationwide were supplied a copy of the coal mining report from Mr A and Miss Js solicitors. 
Nationwide sent this on to its valuer and it responded to say based on the information 
contained in the report, that Nationwide were ok to lend Mr A and Miss J the money. I cant 
see anywhere within the report or Nationwides communication that they inspected either 
mine or gave any guarantees that both mines were capped. What it did do was decide based 
on the information available, if it were willing to take on the risk of lending money for the 
purpose of Mr A and Miss Js mortgage. 
Miss J has highlighted in her response to our investigator, that she thinks it shouldve been 
the solicitor that advised further investigation into the uncapped mine was needed. The 
broker involved in the arranging of the mortgage has also highlighted that the developer 
could be questioned more around the fact they have built on or near an uncapped mine. This 
is not something I can comment or advise on, but Mr A and Miss J could investigate more. 
Mr A and Miss J may also find that they have some cover as part of any insurance or 
guarantee they were given with it being a new build property. This is not something I can 
comment on with any certainty based on the limited information we have about the 
purchase. But as with the above, Mr A and Miss J could look into this further. 
Mr A and Miss J have told our service that they are likely to receive a massive loss on the 
property when they come to sell, because of the uncapped mine. They say their financial 
advisor recently informed them that the property could be valued at as much as £40,000 to 
£90,000 less than they paid. As Ive not found Nationwide to be at fault here, I wont be 
asking it to compensate Mr A and Miss J for any future loss they may have. 
In summary, based on the information supplied by both parties, I havent found Nationwide 
have acted unfairly when they have offered the mortgage on the terms they have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman