DRN-2335481
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as 
guarantor for a loan it gave to her former partner. She says the loan was not affordable for 
her and she thinks she was not given the full information or gave consent to be guarantor.
What happened
Miss B entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £2,000 loan that 
Bamboo provided to her former partner, in January 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 
23 monthly instalments of £121.41 and a final payment of £121.30. The total amount 
payable including interest was about £2914.
The borrower initially made some repayments but when he failed to make a payment, Miss B 
was asked to meet the loan repayments as guarantor. The loan has now been repaid.
 
Miss B says the loan was unaffordable for her and has caused her a great deal of stress at 
the time to make the payments. She also says she was pressured into acting as guarantor 
by her former partner. 
Bamboo offered to remove Miss B as guarantor and also offered £300 to Miss B as a 
gesture of goodwill although it says it doesnt think it has done anything wrong. It says it has 
made the offer as it has empathy for her situation. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs complaint. She didn't think that Bamboo had 
been wrong to accept Miss B as guarantor for the loan or that the loan was unaffordable for 
her. She felt also that Bamboos offer to remove Miss B as guarantor and make a payment 
of £300 to be fair.
Miss B didnt agree with this assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments and decided what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when it 
accepted Miss B as a guarantor for her former partners loan application.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Miss Bs complaint. In doing so, I have asked three key questions:
Did Bamboo obtain Miss Bs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Has Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Bamboo obtain Miss Bs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Bamboo has provided a recording of a telephone call that took place between one of its 
representatives and Miss B to discuss her becoming guarantor for the loan. It also says Miss 
B would have had to take steps during the process to actively confirm that she was willing to 
act as loan guarantor. 
From what Ive seen and from listening to the call, I think Miss B did agree to guarantee her 
former partners loan and I think its likely that she understood that she might be called upon 
to repay the loan, if her former partner didnt meet the loan repayments himself. Miss B has 
complained that she wasnt given enough information about the loan. But overall, I think its 
likely she was aware what she was agreeing to. Miss B has also complained that she felt 
pressured at the time, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that Bamboo pressured her into 
becoming a guarantor or that it was reasonably aware that she might be feeling pressured 
by the borrower.
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able repay the loan sustainably, as guarantor, if she was called to do so - as she 
was equally liable with her former partner for this debt. There was no set list of checks that 
Bamboo had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the 
loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the guarantors 
overall financial circumstances.
Bamboo says it asked Miss B for information about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out a credit check. Bamboo says that, based on the information Miss B provided and 
what it found in its checks, there was nothing to suggest that Miss B wouldnt be able to 
afford the loan, if she was called upon to make the repayments.
On the face of it, the information that Miss B provided about her financial position would 
seem to suggest she could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do so. 
But then the loan was scheduled to be over 24 months and when I think about the amount 
that potentially would have needed to be paid, I have considered whether further checks 
were needed by Bamboo to ensure that the repayments were sustainable for Miss B. That 
said, I havent needed to make a finding on whether the checks in this instance were 
proportionate or not. That is because even if they werent, and I did find that Bamboo 
needed to have gone further, I think they would have agreed to the loan anyway.
Miss B has provided us with copies of her bank statements so I can determine what Bamboo 
might have discovered, if it had carried out further checks when she applied to become the 
loan guarantor. The statements show that Miss B was always in credit with her account 
without needing to rely on an overdraft. There is no apparent evidence on the bank 
statements of other lending repayments or returned requests for payment  both of which 
might have suggested to the lender that this consumer was facing financial difficulties. Miss Bs income and regular expenses appear to broadly reflect what she told Bamboo at the time 
in terms of her income and essential expenditure.
 
So, in conclusion, I cannot fairly say, even if Bamboo had carried out further checks, that it 
should have reasonably concluded that Miss B was having serious problems managing her 
money. Or that she would be unable to afford the loan repayments and therefore it ought to 
decline her application to be loan guarantor.
Has Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I have read the correspondence between the parties and I havent on this occasion seen any 
other reason to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
 
As Ive explained, I dont think Bamboo was wrong to accept Miss B as loan guarantor. Ive 
thought carefully about what Miss B has told us, but I dont think Bamboos offer of £300 is 
unfair or unreasonable, in the circumstances. I do acknowledge Miss Bs comments that she 
would have been removed as guarantor anyway as she has repaid the loan. I will leave it to 
the parties to make contact to discuss this offer again.
Taking everything into account I cannot say, in the circumstances, that I think Bamboo has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B. And I am not going to ask it to do anything 
more. 
I appreciate that Miss B will be disappointed by my decision and I can see that she has had 
a difficult time. I would like to reassure her that I have considered everything that both she 
and Bamboo have told us, but on balance, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint or make any 
award against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman