DRN-3769778
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Fly Now Pay Later Limited (FNPL) are holding her liable for a loan 
which she says she didnt take out. Shed like the loan written off and any information about 
it removed from her credit file. 
What happened
In February 2020 a loan of around £900 was taken out in Mrs Ks name with FNPL. The loan 
was to pay for a hotel reservation overseas which had been booked via FNPLs partner 
business. 
Mrs K then received several letters from FNPL  which had been sent to her mothers 
address and then passed onto her  saying she owed it money. At that time Mrs K contacted 
FNPL to say she did not recognise this loan, and contacted Action Fraud to report it as fraud. 
It seems Mrs K then heard nothing further about the loan until she applied for a mortgage in 
early 2021 and her application was refused, on checking her credit file, she realised that the 
FNPL loan was showing as a defaulted debt, so she contacted FNPL to complain.
FNPL reviewed Mrs Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought, on balance Mrs K likely 
consented to the loan  and therefore should be held liable for it. Specifically, FNPL said:
it took details of her name, address, and date of birth, and ran a credit check before 
opening the account
the hotel reservation was booked in the name of Mrs Ks husband, Mr A
Mr A also had an account with FNPL which had been used to pay for flights relating 
to the same period of time and location as the hotel reservation
Mrs K wasnt happy with FNPLs response, so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but overall agreed with FNPL that 
it was more likely Mrs K had consented to the loan. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for review. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 22 September 2022. Mrs K has responded 
to say she is largely happy with the proposed outcome but would like me to also consider 
asking FNPL to cover her solicitors costs. FNPL did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
A customer cant be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to. So, I need to 
determine on balance whether Mrs K consented. Having done so I dont think Mrs K did  I 
say this because:
Ive seen the details FNPL recorded when it opened the account in Mrs Ks name. 
The name and date of birth are correct, but the email address, phone number, and 
home address do not match up with Mrs Ks personal details, although the address is 
one that Mrs K and Mr A used for their business.
The active card address given was for an address in Manchester, but Mrs K and Mr 
A do not live anywhere near Manchester
The linked booking for flights  in Mr As name  was also for flights from 
Manchester, not an airport local to Mrs K and Mr A
Mr A has provided bank statements which show he was using his debit card in the 
UK  in his local area, not in Manchester  during the period the hotel booking was 
for
Mr As date of birth does not match with that given for the hotel booking
Each of these issues alone may not have caused me concern, but as a wider picture, this 
evidence gives me serious concerns about whether the loan account was legitimately 
opened by Mrs K.
Mrs K and Mr A have suggested that the information used to open the account and make the 
booking may have been taken from publicly available records regarding their business, and 
that does seem plausible. And along with the accurate information, the individual who 
opened the account also appears to have used several pieces of personal information which 
are not associated with either Mrs K or Mr A. In addition, FNPL has not been able to provide
any information from its travel partner to show that the person who used the booking was in
fact Mr A  such as a passport number or other identifying data which one might expect to
be recorded as part of a travel booking.
I acknowledge what FNPL have said about the other account in Mr As name for flights, but 
while Im unable to make any specific findings about the legitimacy of that other account in 
this decision, nothing FNPL has said about it has convinced me that Mrs Ks account was 
genuinely opened by her. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im currently not satisfied that there is adequate 
evidence to show that Mrs K consented to this loan, so it follows that I do not consider FNPL 
are entitled to hold Mrs K liable for the loan.
I appreciate Mrs Ks comments about the costs she incurred by consulting with a solicitor 
about this matter, and I understand why she would like FNPL to also cover that cost. But it 
was, ultimately, her decision to ask a solicitor for advice. That wasnt something that she was 
required to do either by FNPL or this service, so I dont think it would be fair to ask FNPL to 
cover that cost.
And as FNPL hasnt made any further comment following my provisional decision, my 
findings remain unchanged.Putting things right
As I dont think FNPL should have opened this account in Mrs Ks name, it follows that I 
dont think its fair for Mrs K to be held responsible for the outstanding debt. Therefore, FNPL 
should:
Write off the loan in Mrs As name
Remove any reference to the loan from Mrs As credit file
Pay Mrs A £300 compensation for the distress caused 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Fly Now Pay Later Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman