DRN-3133674
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont cover some claims that she made 
under her home emergency insurance.
What happened
Miss M made claims to Aviva in 2020. She had two security lights in the garden which had 
stopped working. Also she wanted Aviva to look at her smoke detectors which kept going off 
for no reason and her bathroom light/fan which only worked intermittently.
With regard to the smoke detectors Aviva said that only the wiring to these was covered and 
the actual detectors had passed their expiry dates. Similarly as the bathroom light/fan was 
an integral unit this wasnt covered either.
In respect of the security lights, these had been replaced in 2018 by Aviva. As its electrician 
could only replace them with standard fittings, it was agreed that Miss M would buy the 
lantern lights she wanted. Aviva duly fitted those lights. In 2020 Miss M reported that the 
lights had stopped working. Avivas electrician said that the fault was likely to be either with 
the bulb or the fitting, He replaced the bulb and said if it didnt come on when it was dark, the 
fitting was likely to be faulty. Aviva sent out another electrician who confirmed that diagnosis. 
However the actual wiring to the lights, as it was by underground cable, was excluded under 
the policy.
As Aviva had fitted Miss Ms own supplied parts, under the terms of the policy the fittings 
themselves werent guaranteed. Aviva offered to replace the fittings if Miss M wanted to 
supply her own lights again.
Miss M found the electricians to be rude and curt. She was unhappy with Avivas response 
saying it had repaired her lights before and it set out her claims history, which she thought to 
be irrelevant.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Aviva had acted reasonably.
Miss M didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs, where things go 
wrong, in the case of the electrical cover, with the wiring in the home. It isnt a maintenance 
policy so will not generally cover matters which are just maintenance, like the changing of 
light bulbs. Though I appreciate that electricians in the past have done that for Miss M as a 
gesture of goodwill. Similarly it doesnt cover appliances or matters like the bathroom fan, 
because it is an integral part of the light, or the smoke detectors. It only covers wiring going 
to them. With regard to the smoke detectors Aviva noted that these had expired so should 
be replaced. But this wouldnt be covered as part of an emergency repair.
For similar reasons, whilst garden and security lights are covered, this would only be for 
emergency repair, which could be achieved by replacing them with standard fittings. But as 
Miss M wanted them to be replaced with lantern lights, Aviva agreed to fit these if she 
supplied the fittings, but the fittings themselves wouldnt be guaranteed. She did this in 2018 
and the lights were duly fitted.
Unfortunately it appears that the fittings themselves are faulty. Thats the diagnosis of two 
separate electricians that Aviva sent out to review them. There is an exclusion in the policy 
for underground cables but it doesnt appear that it is the cables that are at fault. And I 
havent seen any evidence that the work done while fitting the lights was faulty. If Miss M 
wants Aviva to replace the lights with similar fittings its said its willing to do this, but again 
the fittings themselves wont be guaranteed.
I can understand if Miss M felt the electricians were offhand or curt. But as only Miss M and 
the electricians were present its not possible for me to say exactly what happened. It does 
appear that she has made a number of claims and is usually satisfied with any repairs. And I 
can understand that she was upset when the limitations of the policy were pointed out to her. 
I cant make any finding regarding the electricians conduct.
Lastly I understand that Miss M was upset that Aviva highlighted her previous claims in its 
response to her. How a business deals with a complaint is not a regulated activity that we 
can look at. I believe that it was attempting to highlight the fact that it has helped her on a 
number of occasions since taking out the policy. But, as I say, how it chose to deal with 
Miss Ms complaint isnt a matter I can look at.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman