DRN-2129901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Swinton Group Ltd, their insurance broker, told them that it 
would pay their landlords insurance claim if their insurer didnt, yet it has failed to do so. 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr and Mrs M approached Swinton to provide them with a quote for property 
owners/landlords insurance. They took out a policy with a particular insurer (B) which 
renewed each year, through Swinton, until May 2019. 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs M had cause to make a claim under their policy. During the course 
of validating the claim, B discovered that Mr M had two county court judgments (CCJs) 
against his name that hadnt been disclosed to it when the policy was first applied for or at 
any of the subsequent renewals. B said this was material information which shouldve been 
disclosed so it voided (cancelled) Mr and Mrs Ms policy back to inception and returned their 
premiums. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Swinton. They said they felt let down. And they said they were 
unaware of the first CCJ from 2013 which is why they hadnt mentioned it when first taking 
the policy out in 2016. 
Swinton looked into their complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said whilst it 
no longer had a copy of the sales phone call from 2016 it was reasonable to assume that the 
2013 CCJ hadnt been mentioned in it as Mr and Mrs M said they didnt know about it. 
Swinton said it asked Mr and Mrs M about CCJs at every subsequent renewal so the 
second CCJ  from October 2017  shouldve been disclosed by them at the next renewal in 
May/June 2018. It said policy documents and statements of facts were issued to them 
annually and these highlighted the importance of disclosing CCJs as a material fact that 
could affect the validity of the policy. 
Swinton said it was satisfied itd asked Mr and Mrs M about CCJs and issued them with the 
appropriate documentation so it didnt think itd done anything wrong and wasnt going to 
uphold their complaint. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Swinton, Mr and Mrs M complained to this 
service. They said they were also unhappy that Swinton had told them that if B wouldnt 
settle the claim then it would but it hadnt done so. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought it had asked Mr and Mrs M the relevant questions clearly at inception, had 
highlighted the need to disclose CCJs at each renewal and that itd passed accurate 
information about them to B. She also thought each piece of documentation itd sent out to 
Mr and Mrs M made clear the importance of disclosing material information. And she said 
there was no evidence that Swinton had said to Mr and Mrs M that it would settle their claim 
if B wouldnt. She said Swinton had said that if it was identified that itd made an error then it 
would consider their claim. But she said shed seen no evidence that it had. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators findings. They said Swinton had told them 
numerous times that it was at fault and would pay out on their claim. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this decision I am only looking at what Swinton has done and whether it treated       
Mr and Mrs M fairly and reasonably. I cant look here at the decision to void their policy 
because that was a decision taken by B. I understand that Mr and Mrs M have raised a 
separate complaint with B about its decision to void their policy. Here I can only look at 
whether Swinton asked Mr and Mrs M appropriate clear questions to elicit the information 
that B wanted and, if it did, whether it passed that information on to B.  
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think that 
Swinton has done anything wrong here. Ill explain why. 
When the policy began and each policy year approaching renewal, Swinton wrote to Mr and 
Mrs M. At inception in June 2016 it sent them their policy documents from the insurer and its 
own terms of business. Swintons covering letter said: Any failure to disclose material 
factsmay affect the validity of your policy and any claim you make. Its terms of business 
highlighted the requirement to disclose all material facts. 
And, at renewal each year Swinton wrote to Mr and Mrs M enclosing a renewal offer. It said 
on the front of the covering letter: What you need to do next: Review the enclosed 
information and ensure all is correct. The information enclosed included the documents 
issued by B along with Swintons terms of business. 
A further document was enclosed entitled, Information we hold about you and your 
business.Your duty of disclosureIt is your responsibility to ensure that the information 
supplied to us about you and your business is accurate and we are kept up to date with any 
changes throughout the period of the policy some examples of the type of information that 
the insurers would expect you to disclose would be: details of any financial issues, 
bankruptcies, insolvencies, CCJs.
In Swintons Terms of Business it said What you must tell usYou are required to make a 
fair presentation of the risks you want to insure. This might include all relevant information 
which you know may affect the cover provided
And I can see from the documentation B produced which Swinton sent at renewal to Mr and 
Mrs M that its Statement of Fact says General AcceptanceThis insurance contract is 
based on neither you nor your director(s) havingbeen the subject of any county court 
judgement (CCJ)
From this information Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were asked and reminded by Swinton 
on multiple occasions of the need to disclose all material facts and that CCJs were one such 
fact that needed to be disclosed. That Bs General Acceptance includes the above 
statement indicates that Swinton passed the information it had on to B. Unfortunately, I cant 
see evidence that Mr and Mrs M made Swinton aware at any point that the information it 
held about them was incorrect. Mr M has told us that he doesnt know, so was unaware when he first took the policy out in 
2016, what the 2013 CCJ related to. In respect of the CCJ dated October 2017, Mr M has 
said this was from when hed sold his home in 2016 and related to an outstanding estate 
agents bill which ended up in court. Its fair to think that a dispute that ended in court 
proceedings and a CCJ seven months before the renewal documentation was sent out by 
Swinton (containing warnings about reviewing the enclosed documentation for accuracy) 
would have been something Mr and Mrs M would reasonably have been aware of come the 
next renewal in May 2018. 
So, I cant reasonably conclude that Swinton has done anything wrong here or treated Mr 
and Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably in any way. It made Mr and Mrs M aware of the need to 
disclose any CCJs and included warnings in much of the documentation it sent them about 
the need to review the enclosed information to ensure all was correct and about their duty of 
disclosure. 
Ive thought too about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint that they were told by Swinton that it would 
settle their claim if B declined to do so. Unfortunately, Ive not seen any documentary 
evidence that this is what Swinton said. Ive reviewed its case notes and there is no mention 
of any such statement ever being made. I can see our investigator asked Swinton about this 
and it said that its position was that if it was shown that itd made an error (for example if Mr 
and Mrs M had told it about the CCJ yet itd failed to pass this information on to B) then it 
would consider the claim. But theres no evidence of any such error here. Without evidence 
of either, I cant fairly ask Swinton to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman