DRN-3542772
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Halifax, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was about 
ten years old and had already completed in excess of 116,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear and would be accepting of 
some cosmetic imperfections.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Halifax were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
I think Halifax have been able to demonstrate otherwise. I say that because:
The independent inspector who is an expert on these issues has confirmed the 
condition of the car is commensurate with its age and mileage.
The inspector found no evidence of a wobbly seat and confirmed what the cars 
advertisement had said  that Bluetooth was not fitted to the car. So, neither of these 
issues could fairly be considered unsatisfactory.
Mr H has explained that he did notice some colour variation in the door panel before 
he took receipt of the car. The relevant legislation says that goods shouldnt be 
considered of unsatisfactory quality if the defect ought reasonably to have been 
identified during a pre-sale inspection. I think that was likely to have been the case.
I dont think its unusual for a car of this age and mileage to have had some cosmetic 
work completed. Whilst I understand the garages comments that the respray hasnt 
been of the best of standards I dont think a reasonable person would expect a 
showroom condition on a car of this age and mileage.
So, overall, Im not persuaded this car was of unsatisfactory condition when it was supplied 
to Mr H and Im not asking Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman