DRN-3691755
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car, first registered in 2006.
For the year from February 2021, Mr A had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
AXA. The policy schedule said the estimated value of the car was £3,000.00. Any claim for
damage (other than to a windscreen) was subject to an excess of £650.00.
In early September 2021, Mr A was using the car on a road trip in a rural part of continental
Europe where he wasnt familiar with the language. Unfortunately, on the evening of 5
September (a Sunday night) his car suffered frontal damage in an accident. AXA didnt
recover the damaged car  rather Mr A got it to a local garage.
From about mid-October 2021, Mr A complained to AXA about poor service, delay and
failure to provide a courtesy car.
In late October 2021, AXA paid Mr A its pre-accident valuation of his car, less the excess. A
few days later, it increased the valuation and made a further payment.
By a final response dated December 2021, AXA said it was paying Mr A £150.00
compensation and £25.00 in relation to the late response to his complaint. Mr A brought his
complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
AXA was responsible for avoidable delay that caused distress and inconvenience. He didnt
recommend that AXA should reimburse wasted accommodation costs. The investigator
recommended that AXA should:
1. pay Mr A  in addition to the £150.00 - a further £550.00 (a total of £700.00); and
2. meet reasonable costs of recovery based on the prices their appointed agents 
would charge in that part of Europe.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to AXA on 16 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mr A had no choice other than to make his own arrangements for recovery of his 
damaged car to a garage. He had told us he paid in cash. In any event, AXA had 
agreed to pay him what it wouldve paid for a recovery from the scene of the accident 
to the first garage. So I found it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to make such a 
payment.
The shortcomings in AXAs response caused other impact on Mr A. That started with 
a feeling of being unsupported on the night of the accident. It continued with the
embarrassment of having to deal with the garage where his car ended up. And he 
had to chase AXA for progress for several weeks.
AXA tried to put things right in its final response. But I didnt consider that £150.00 
and £25.00 went far enough. I considered that the investigators recommendation 
went too far.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from AXA, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr A:
1. the sum that it wouldve paid for a recovery from the scene of the accident to the first 
garage; and
2. in addition to the payments of £150.00 and £25.00 a further £250.00 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr A accepted the provisional decision. His recollection is that he paid the driver of the 
recovery truck about €150 cash.
AXA hasnt added anything in response to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that its common ground that the policy provided comprehensive cover for up to 90
days driving in the parts of Europe Mr A intended to visit. The policy covered his car up to its
market value.
The policy said that AXA would provide a courtesy car if Mr As car was being repaired by
one of its approved repairers. If his car was a total loss, then the maximum period for
keeping the courtesy car was 14 days. The policy also said the following:
If a courtesy car cannot be arranged, we will repay your alternative travelling costs
up to a maximum of £15 per day.
In my view the use of the word repay means that Mr A would have to provide evidence of
costs such as taxi receipts.
Since at least mid-October 2021, Mr A has been complaining to AXA that on the night of the
accident, he rang from the roadside, but AXA said it couldnt help him with recovery of his
damaged car in Europe. AXA hasnt provided any call recording from that night or from his
later report of the accident. So I find it more likely than not that Mr A had rung AXA on thenight of the accident, and it said it couldnt help him.
Therefore I consider that Mr A had no choice other than to make his own arrangements for
recovery of his damaged car to a garage. He has told us he paid in cash. In any event, AXA
has agreed to pay him what it wouldve paid for a recovery from the scene of the accident to
the first garage. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to make such a payment.
Mr As car was never at one of AXAs approved repairers. And it was a total loss. So I dont
consider that AXA had to provide a courtesy car for longer than 14 days - or to pay more 
than 14 days at £15.00 per day (a total of £210.00) for alternative traveling costs.
As AXA said it couldnt provide a courtesy car to Mr A, I wouldve found it fair to direct AXA
to pay him up to £210.00. But that would but only be the case if he had provided evidence of
alternative travelling costs such as taxi receipts  which I dont think he has.
I consider that  in the context of frontal damage to a 2006 car worth about £3,000.00  AXA
shouldve been more proactive about getting details and images which showed the car was
a total loss. Instead, AXA waited until late September to receive the garages repair estimate
in Euros for the equivalent of about £8,600.00. After translation, it was mid-October by the
time AXA engaged with the pre-accident valuation.
The accident itself was bound to cause Mr A upset and inconvenience  including the need
to make telephone calls and re-think the plans he had with his friends. I consider that it
would be going too far to hold AXA responsible for the waste of pre-paid accommodation in
a different part of Europe later in October 2021.
Mr A hasnt provided enough detail to show any other financial loss.
But I consider that the shortcomings in AXAs response caused other impact on Mr A. That
started with a feeling of being unsupported on the night of the accident. It continued with the
embarrassment of having to deal with the garage where his car ended up. And he had to
chase AXA for progress for several weeks. 
Putting things right
AXA tried to put things right in its final response. But I dont consider that £150.00 and
£25.00 went far enough. I consider that the investigators recommendation went too far. I
conclude that  in addition to the payments of £150.00 and £25.00 a further £250.00 would
be fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr A:
1. the sum that it wouldve paid for a recovery from the scene of the accident to the first 
garage; and
2. in addition to the payments of £150.00 and £25.00 a further £250.00 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman