DRN-3070128
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays when it took 
security over a property. P is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr G. Mr G asks 
for compensation for Ps legal fees, interest costs and his time.
What happened
P took out a loan facility with Barclays. The debt was secured on a credit balance in Ps 
account. It was intended that this would be exchanged for a charge on a property owned by 
a member of Mr Gs family once some issues with the property title were sorted out.
The title issues were sorted out by late 2019 and Mr G contacted Barclays about exchanging 
the security. He says Barclays was unclear about its process and this caused delays, 
increased his legal costs, he had to spend too much time dealing with the matter and there 
was a delay in P accessing its money.
Barclays said while the matter took longer than usual it wasnt responsible for the delays. It 
offered £50 for asking for information it already had. Barclays said if Mr G provided a 
breakdown of legal costs showing additional costs it would review this. 
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt caused the delays and he couldnt fairly ask it to pay 
further compensation.
P didnt agree. Mr G sent emails that he said showed the delays were Barclays fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr G contacted Barclays about exchanging the security for Ps loan facility. Barclays needed 
to take security over a property owned by a family member and release the existing charge 
over the bank deposit. Barclays approved this at the end of January 2020, subject to 
conditions such as a satisfactory valuation. Barclays says this process usually takes 10 to 14 
weeks. 
At the end of May the solicitors confirmed the charge on the property had been registered at 
the land registry. Barclays released its charge on the bank deposit and transferred the funds 
to P on 1 June 2020. 
The process to exchange the security took longer than usual. The parties dispute the 
reasons for this. 
Barclays says there was a delay due to P instructing the same solicitor (solicitor A) as the 
family member that owned the property over which it would take security. Barclays said the 
family member needed independent legal advice. Mr G gave Barclays details of a different 
solicitor (solicitor B) in mid-March 2020.
Mr G disputed that hed made an error with the solicitors. Barclays provided an exchange of 
emails when it asked Mr G for details of his solicitor regarding the change in security: Mr G 
responded on 10 February giving details of solicitor A. 
Mr G had forwarded to Barclays an email to him from solicitor B in late 2019 about the 
property title. I dont think Barclays could have known from this that Mr G had or would 
instruct solicitor B in relation to the change in security. I think it was reasonable for Barclays 
to accept what Mr G said in his email of 10 February 2020.
Mr G says delays were caused by Barclays not telling solicitor B what was needed until late 
March 2020. He says if Barclays had given clear instructions on 16 March solicitor B would 
have completed the necessary work before people were asked to work from home and the 
national lockdown was brought in from late March 2020. He also says Barclays gave 
solicitor B instructions in a piece-meal way, increasing his legal costs.
Did Barclays make errors which caused delays?
While Barclays did need to give instructions to solicitor B, I dont think its reasonable to say 
that it should have done this immediately, on 16 March. Barclays had to approve the 
appointment of solicitor B. 
Barclays says it approved the appointment and sent an internal request on 18 March for 
solicitor B to be given access to its portal, which would usually take a few days. It sent a 
letter of instruction to solicitor B on 27 March 2020. 
Even if Barclays had instructed solicitor B on 16 March 2020, I dont think they would have 
completed the work needed before the national lockdown. Barclays needed solicitor B to 
prepare a report on title, for which it needed to do local searches and liaise with the valuer. 
There was only about a week between Barclays being given solicitors Bs details and people 
being asked to work at home. Its unlikely the report on title could have been completed in 
this time  or even that local searches would have been returned. I also note that in early 
April 2020 solicitor B told Barclays it wasnt appropriate for them to prepare the report on 
title, and said solicitor A should do this. A dispute about what work solicitor B would 
undertake would also have held up matters during this short period.
Its clear from the emails there was some confusion about the work Barclays expected from 
solicitor B. I think there was an expectation on Barclays part that solicitor B would know 
what work they needed to undertake regarding it taking a charge on the property. However, I 
dont think its fair to say that Barclays gave piece-meal instructions to solicitor B. Barclays 
sent a letter of instructions to solicitor B with specific instructions and a link to its general 
instructions for solicitors in late March 2020.
Solicitors usually access and upload documents on Barclays portal. There were problems 
giving access to the portal to solicitor B. It seems this was at least in part due to the 
pandemic and Barclays staff working remotely. This wouldnt have helped matters. However, 
Barclays accepted and provided documents by other means. And when solicitor B asked for 
documents or information Barclays responded promptly. 
The emails between Barclays and solicitor B could suggest some inconsistency on Barclays 
part about which solicitor was responsible for aspects of the transaction. Having looked at the internal emails, I think Barclays was trying to find a way to progress matters despite the 
problems arising due to the pandemic  such as solicitor A being stuck overseas and 
solicitor B not having access to the portal. 
This matter was no doubt delayed due to the pandemic and the lockdown. Solicitor A was 
overseas and unable to upload documents or travel home. Staff at Barclays and solicitor B 
were working remotely. Barclays couldnt give solicitor B access to its portal. Most likely 
there were other delays, such as with searches being returned, as the relevant staff were 
also having to work differently. I do understand Mr Gs frustration about this.
In August 2020 Barclays asked for a document that solicitor B had already provided. This 
was after the security exchange had completed, and solicitor B had only to send a short 
email in reply. Barclays offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience this caused. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Barclays released its charge and transferred funds to P on 1 June 2020  about 11 weeks 
after Mr G told Barclays hed instructed solicitor B. I dont think this was unreasonable, 
especially given the difficult circumstances. While I dont know if this could have happened 
sooner, I dont think there were delays due to errors by Barclays. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £50 to P, as it has offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman