DRN-3022843
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) didnt refund a payment she made to a 
company on her credit card for a packaged holiday.
What happened
A holiday for May 2017 was booked by Ms S using her credit card she holds with Halifax. 
She booked the holiday via a travel agent, and it was an all-inclusive holiday totalling 
£776.26.
Ms S says her room was unclean and she had to change rooms on several occasions. The 
food was unhygienic, and the hotel had wet floors with no health and safety precautions 
such as caution signs. Ms S says due to the wet floors she slipped resulting in injury. 
Therefore, she sought medical attention, and injections were administered to assist with the 
pain. However, she says as a result of the injections being administered incorrectly, she has 
now developed an ongoing medical condition.
So, Ms S raised the matter with Halifax and it considered it under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). Originally, Halifax declined the claim as it said 
there had been no misrepresentation, and as she had stayed in the hotel, there had been no 
breach of contract.
In 2019, Ms S provided further information, but Halifax refused to re-open the claim as a 
decision had already been made. Ms S remained unhappy and complained because she felt 
it should consider the further information she provided. Halifax agreed it had made an error 
and looked into Ms S claim. But after reviewing Ms S new evidence (a letter from her GP 
confirming the nerve condition was likely caused by the injections administered during her 
holiday) it said it was unable to accept a section 75 claim as Ms S had paid a travel agent 
and the service was provided by a different company. Because of this, they said that the 
debtor, creditor and supplier (DCS) agreement was not in place.
However, it went on to say that even if the DCS chain could be established there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show breach of contract. Halifax did accept that it hadnt offered a 
satisfactory service and offered Ms S £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Ms S was unhappy with Halifaxs response, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Ms S complaint but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
disagreed with Halifax and said that the DCS agreement was in place. But he agreed that 
there was insufficient evidence to say there was a breach of contract. Ms S remained 
unhappy so she asked for the complaint to be passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional findings on 16 August 2021. This is what I said:
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont plan on upholding 
this complaint, but my reasons differ slightly to the investigators, I will explain why.
First, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties, and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here, and our rules allow me to do this.
Ms S has claimed for breach of contract and has brought the claim against Halifax. Halifax 
has said that the DCS chain didnt exist. So, I will consider this aspect of Ms S complaint 
first.
The effect of section 75 is that if Ms S has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the travel agent, she can bring a like claim against Halifax 
providing certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is there must be a relevant 
DCS relationship in place.
Neither Halifax nor Ms S dispute that she bought a package holiday, and I am satisfied it 
was a package holiday for the purposes of the Package Travel, Package Holidays and 
Package Tours Regulations 1992 (PTR). This is because it was a prearranged combination 
of transport (flights) and accommodation sold for an inclusive price. Having reviewed the 
evidence, I can see Ms S paid £776.26 directly to the travel agent for the packaged holiday. 
While the package holiday was provided by a different company and a series of different 
suppliers, the PTRs operate to place liability for the performance of the travel services 
included in a package on the organiser, irrespective of whether the travel services are 
performed by third parties.
However, Halifax doesnt dispute that Ms S paid the travel agent directly or that she booked 
a package holiday. But it says The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 only apply to holiday travel arrangements booked on or after 1 July 2018. 
And as Ms S holiday was booked in 2017, the package holiday rules dont apply here, as 
such the DCS chain is broken.
While I accept that Ms S package holiday was booked prior to 1 July 2018, I dont agree that 
this has any relevance to the DCS chain in this case. I say that because before 1 July 2018, 
the relevant legislation is the PTR 1992. This says that in order for a holiday to be 
considered as a package holiday, it must be for a period of more than 24 hours and be the 
pre-arranged combination of two of the following, accommodation, transport or another 
tourist service. As I have already highlighted above, Halifax, Ms S, and I all agree the holiday 
was pre-arranged with an inclusive price for flights and accommodation paid directly to the 
travel agent and was for a period of time longer than 24 hours. As such, I am satisfied that 
the relevant DCS agreement is in place to make Halifax liable for any possible breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in respect of the contract to supply the holiday.
Therefore, I have gone on to consider whether I think Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with Ms S section 75 claim. In doing so, Ive taken into account the relevant 
law including the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This says that services should be provided 
with reasonable skill and care. Ms S has said that the hotel had poor standards of safety and 
hygiene  which indicates to me that the service was potentially not provided with 
reasonable skill and care. In addition to what Ms S has said happened I have considered 
any evidence that supports her claim.
Based on what I have seen Halifax investigated Ms S claim under section 75 but did not find 
that either a misrepresentation or breach of contract had occurred. I appreciate Ms S is 
upset by this, and despite providing evidence which she believes supports her claim, the 
claim was not upheld. However, I think that Halifax did do what was required of it in regards 
to investigating Ms S claim. I say this because, I cant see any supporting evidence provided by Ms S that shows, the poor conditions of the hotel, unhygienic food standards or health 
and safety issues in relation to the wet floors and lack of signs highlighting this.
I appreciate that Ms S has provided evidence from her GP which indicates, her condition 
was likely to have been caused by the intramuscular injections she received while she was 
away on holiday. And Ms S says she received these injections to manage the pain as a 
result of her slipping on a wet floor in her hotel. However, this evidence provided does not 
show, poor hygiene standards, dirty rooms or health and safety concerns connecting to the 
hotel. Having reviewed the medical report it states Ms S symptoms were bilateral foot 
swelling and the diagnosis said acute allergic dermatitis. So, overall, based on the 
evidence available I am not persuaded that there has been a breach of contract in relation to 
the standard of accommodation she received.
It is possible that Ms S may have received inadequate medical treatment (as she has 
alleged) while she was away on holiday but this isnt clear. However, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to say Halifax is responsible for this because:
the service provided by the doctor appears to be independent to the contract for the 
holiday package  and one Ms S paid for separately. So, it falls outside of her section 
75 claim against Halifax:
even if the agreement with the doctor met the criteria for a valid section 75 claim 
against Halifax, more expert evidence would likely be required to determine if the 
medical professional had acted without reasonable skill and care and to what extent 
their actions were responsible for any current medical condition(s);
It is also worth noting that Ms S appears to be claiming for serious and long term injury. This 
service is unable to make an award for this type of injury (loss of amenity). So, if Ms S feels 
she has suffered from loss of amenity due to personal injury caused by the actions of others 
she should consider taking independent legal advice on the matter (and the possible impact 
on any claims if she accepts a decision by this service in relation to it).
Because of the lack of supporting evidence that shows the accommodation was not provided 
with reasonable skill and care, I cant conclude there was a breach of contract here by the 
supplier. I recognise Ms S strength of feeling on this matter and I am sorry to disappoint her. 
But taking all of the above into account, I am unable to conclude that Halifax was wrong to 
not uphold or re-open the section 75 claim made by Ms S.
Chargeback
In Ms S complaint to our service, she has raised the question why Halifax didnt raise a 
chargeback request. A chargeback is a scheme by which payment disputes can be resolved 
between card holders and merchants. The business that runs the payment network and the 
charge scheme is known as the card scheme. There is set criteria for when disputes can be 
raised, such as the type of dispute for example. Its important for me to point out that the 
card scheme is under no obligation to submit a chargeback nor is Halifax obliged to raise a 
chargeback especially if there is little prospect of success. Halifax, has demonstrated that it 
did consider raising a chargeback but due to the nature of the complaint and evidence 
submitted, it didnt feel there was prospect of success. And having reviewed the evidence, I 
dont think this was unreasonable.
Customer service
I understand that Ms S is unhappy with the service failings of Halifax, and she feels not all of 
these have been considered. But as I mentioned earlier, I have considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to reach a fair and reasonable decision. Having done so, I am satisfied that the £100 Halifax offered in recognition of the service it provided in relation to 
this complaint is fair. If Halifax havent already paid this amount to Ms S I require it to do so 
now. I consider its in line with what I would have asked it to offer had it not done so already. 
I say this because I think it is a fair reflection of the impact the service failings had on Ms S. 
So, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
I understand that Ms S has raised a specific complaint about how one of Halifaxs advisors 
spoke to her, but I can see this has been raised under a different complaint reference 
number, so it hasnt been considered in this decision.
Halifax and Ms S ad until 30 August to provide further comments for me to consider. Halifax 
responded and explained it had nothing further to add. Ms S responded and expressed her 
dissatisfaction with my provisional findings. In summary she said:
She felt I hadnt considered all of the points she had raised
I hadnt been sympathetic to her medical condition
I hadnt considered that her sciatica could have been caused by the fall she had in 
the hotel
She also felt I hadnt considered all the service failing from Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to assure Ms S that I've taken into account her very detailed submissions 
about what happened. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. And as I mentioned in my provisional findings, 
our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. Again, no discourtesy was intended. 
The purpose of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key to the 
complaint, which is, was there a breach of contract by the supplier?  And, as I said in my 
provisional findings, due to the lack of supporting evidence showing the accommodation was 
not provided with reasonable skill and care, I cant conclude there was a breach of contract 
here by the supplier. No further evidence has been provided, as such my decision remains 
the same as outlined in my provisional decision.
 
I would also point out that I really do appreciate the impact this has had on Ms S. And, I am 
sorry that she feels this was not conveyed in my provisional findings. But in reaching my 
decision in this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the 
case impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. 
The evidence Ms S has provided from her GP indicates, her condition was likely to have 
been caused by the intramuscular injections she received while she was away on holiday. 
Ms S says she had the injections due to her slipping on the wet floors in the hotel. But this 
isnt consistent with the supporting evidence provided in the medical report. And again, as no 
further evidence has been provided, my decision remains the same as outlined in my 
provisional findings. 
I am not disputing Ms S version of events, I think it is possible she may have received 
inadequate medical treatment, as she suggests. But I wouldnt reasonably be able to conclude that Halifax was responsible for this as the service provided by the doctor appears 
to be independent to that of the contract for the holiday package  and one Ms S paid for 
separately. So, it falls outside of her section 75 claim against Halifax.
Ms S has said the she is unhappy I havent commented on the service provided by a specific 
agent at Halifax. This wasnt an oversight on my part. As explained in the provisional 
findings, the service provided by that specific agent relates to a different case with a different 
reference number. As such I am unable to reach a decision on that issue in this final 
decision. 
In light of the above, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision for the 
reasons I have already explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman