DRN-2375338
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Silver 
account, which was sold to her in June 2009.
Mrs E says that she was not given the option of having a fee-free account. She also says 
that she didnt need the benefits that came with the account as she doesnt travel and 
already had mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover for her car.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. Mrs E disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Es complaint. 
I think it might help to explain that where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, 
as they are here, I make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, 
given the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances at the time. Having 
considered everything that Mrs E and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs E says that she had a fee-free current account with a building society and wanted to 
open an account with a bank and said Lloyds was the only bank willing to offer her an 
account. She says that the only account offered to her was the fee-paying Silver account. 
Conversely, Lloyds says that fee-free accounts are widely available. It also points out that 
Mrs E already had a fee-free account and the notes made at the time indicate that the 
consumer agreed to the account essentially because it would save her money. 
Having considered the competing arguments, I dont think I can reasonably conclude, on 
balance, that Mrs E was deprived of a fair choice or was led to believe that fee-free accounts 
were not available. 
I say this because firstly, Mrs E confirms she already had a fee-free current account with a 
building society before opening this account  so I think she was aware they were generally 
available. And building societies, as well as high street banks, did offer basic (i.e. non-credit 
scored) fee-free accounts in 2009 which allowed a salary to be paid into the account. So Im 
not persuaded by Mrs Es comments that she felt she had no choice but to have an account 
with a bank to receive a salary into her account, or that she had no choice but to bank with 
Lloyds specifically. 
In addition to the above, the notes from the time suggest that a member of staff at Lloyds 
discussed the benefits of the Silver account with Mrs E and she agreed to it because itd 
save her money, rather than because she had no option but to open a packaged bank 
account.
The Silver account was recommended to Mrs E. This means Lloyds had to make sure it was 
right for her. 
Mrs E says that the account was not suitable for her as she already had mobile phone 
insurance and breakdown cover, so says she had no need for the account. But in this case, I 
think the account was sold to her because she had both insurance benefits already. More 
specifically, its clear from the notes that Mrs E had discussed her existing mobile phone 
cover and told Lloyds that she was paying £10 a month for it. And Mrs E has explained that 
ensuring she had a working phone was important to her because of her circumstances. So I 
think mobile phone insurance was important to her. And in 2009, the Silver account cost 
£7.95 a month. 
As such, I think its more likely the reason why Mrs E agreed to the account was because 
shed get a current account and mobile phone insurance for around £2 less per month than 
what she was already paying for her existing mobile phone insurance. This is further 
supported by the fact that a mobile phone was registered to be covered in 2009, and another 
phone in 2010  which shows that Mrs E was benefiting from the cover, even if it was Lloyds 
who registered the first handset for her, as part of the sales process. I should note however, 
that it was up to Mrs E to cancel her existing cover, so if she never got round to doing this, 
this is something that I cant hold Lloyds responsible for.
Mrs E says that she didnt need the breakdown cover or travel insurance. However, as the 
account was sold as a package, Mrs E couldnt pick and choose what it came with. And I 
note that it was the cheapest account to offer mobile phone insurance. So it doesnt mean it 
was mis-sold if it was the case that Mrs E didnt need the other benefits it came with. 
Mrs E has also said that she didnt need the breakdown cover or the travel insurance. But 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show Mrs E did claim on the breakdown cover, although 
Mrs E seems to have little recollection of this. Nevertheless, I think this shows she was 
aware of and relying on the cover provided by her account. 
So overall, I think Lloydss recommendation was not an unreasonable one in the 
circumstances. 
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mrs E, Lloyds also had to ensure it 
gave Mrs E important information about the account. As Mrs E registered a second phone 
under the mobile phone insurance and called the breakdown provider, this clearly shows that 
Mrs E was given at least some information about the benefits and how to go about using 
them.
I appreciate that Mrs E might not have been given all of the important information about the 
account and associated benefits. But Ive not seen anything about Mrs Es circumstances 
that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been 
given more information about it. For example, although Mrs E says she had pre-existing 
medical conditions as I think Mrs E agreed to the account mainly for the cheaper mobile 
phone insurance, had Mrs E been made aware of the exclusion relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions, I think its likely she wouldve still agreed to it. Especially as Mrs E has 
explained that she did not travel because of her medical conditions.I appreciate that Mrs E, with the benefit of hindsight and based on what she mayve read 
recently about packaged accounts, may now think that agreeing to the Silver account has 
been poor value for money. But this doesnt mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to 
her. 
 
So taking everything into account, and when considering what I think was most likely to have 
happened, I am unable to conclude that the account was mis-sold. I therefore dont think it 
would be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund the fees Mrs E has paid for the Silver 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman