DRN-2221505
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them two 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C bought a MPPI policy which started in December 2004 to protect their 
mortgage repayments. The policy covered both Mr C and Mrs C against any accidents, 
unemployment or sickness.
Mr C and Mrs C bought a MPPI policy when they applied for a mortgage with Yorkshire in 
April 2007. This policy covered them both again, although the benefit split was slightly 
different covering Mr C for 60% of the benefit and Mrs C for 40%. 
Mr C and Mrs C believe Yorkshire mis-sold the policies. They say they were not told either 
MPPI policy was optional. They add that they were never asked what steps they had in place 
in case of emergencies and say they didnt need the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr C and Mrs C dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policies were presented to Mr C and Mrs C during the meetings 
that took place in 2004 and 2007. But I think, after considering the documentation 
provided, it is more likely that they were advised it was a good idea to have the 
insurance to protect their mortgage repayments in 2004 and 2007. In 2004, I can see the 
sales documentation show the MPPI policy was presented as optional. And in 2007, I 
can see the mortgage application also presents the MPPI policy as optional. There is 
nothing to suggest in the sales documentation that they were not given a choice to have 
either policy. 
I think Yorkshire recommended both MPPI policies to Mr C and Mrs C, but it doesnt look 
as if either were unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. In 2004, Mr C and Mrs C had 3 months full and 3 months half sick pay. In 2007, 
they had the same sickness benefit but in addition Mr C says he had around £5000 in 
savings and an income protection policy that paid 66% of his wages after 26 weeks. For 
both sales, Mr C and Mrs C could have claimed benefit if needed and the policies would 
have paid out in addition to the provisions they had at the time. The policies would have 
paid the mortgage repayments in what would have been a difficult time. So, I think in 
2004 it would have provided cover for 12 months per claim and would have been of use. 
In 2007, I acknowledge what Mr C has said about his provisions but on balance, I still 
think he and Mrs C would have found some use for the benefit provided during the 12 
months that they could have made the claim, to provide cover for the amount of time that 
either of them werent able to have full pay. So, I can see they would have found some 
benefit in having it. I could also not see any other reason such as a significant exclusion 
or term that would have affected them or made the policies unsuitable either.
Yorkshire has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policies 
that Mr C and Mrs C took out. It has also provided us with documentation in 2007 to 
show how it would have set out the cost and benefit of the policy, giving Mr C and Mrs C 
enough information to decide if they wanted to take it. But even if it didnt provide clear 
information to them for either sale, for the same reasons I have given for the policies 
being suitable, I think they would have taken the cover anyway.
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out other key information that the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mr P wouldve been affected by any of these for the reasons I 
have already given.
Ive taken into account Mr C and Mrs Cs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion, that I dont think they were mis-sold the MPPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman