DRN-3693252
The complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to treat him fairly when 
calculating the value of his accrued pension benefits.
What happened
Mr V holds pension savings with Aviva. Those pension savings are held in a with-profits fund 
that is designed to provide an annuity at his retirement. But Aviva also provides 
policyholders with an equivalent transfer value for these annuity amounts. These are 
calculated by reference to standard factors based on the annuity type and details about the 
policyholder.
In 2016 Aviva amended one of the factors that was used in these calculations to remove any 
reference to the gender of the policyholder. But Aviva says that these changes created an 
error in its system. As a result the transfer values that it automatically calculated were too 
large, and any quotations needed to be manually handled. Aviva says that it resolved the 
error in July 2019 and quotations it issued after that date were correct.
Mr V received a quotation of his pension benefits in July 2018. That quotation failed to be 
performed manually so the quotation Aviva sent was higher than it should have been. At that 
time Aviva told Mr V that the transfer value of his pension savings was £93,952.29.
Mr V was told that the transfer value of his pension benefits had fallen to £70,548.08 in 
March 2021. That valuation was much lower than the one hed previously received. So Mr V 
complained to Aviva and asked for an explanation of the fall in value.
Aviva explained the processing error that was present in the transfer value quotation hed 
received in 2018. It said that error meant that the transfer value was around £10,000 higher 
than it should have been. And it said that the remaining difference arose as a result of 
changes in annuity rates and the final bonus that was being added to plans such as was 
held by Mr V. It confirmed to him that the most recent quotation was correct and the amount 
to which he was entitled. 
Mr V wasnt satisfied with what Aviva had said so he brought his complaint to us. The 
complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Mr V was 
entitled to receive the higher transfer value. And she thought that Aviva had explained how 
changes to the final bonus had affected the value of Mr Vs pension benefits more recently. 
But she did think that the incorrect information Aviva had given Mr V in 2018 had led to a 
loss of expectation. So she asked Aviva to pay Mr V £300 as compensation.
Aviva accepted what our investigator had said. But Mr V didnt agree with the assessment. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr V and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The pension plan that Mr V holds with Aviva is designed to provide him with an annuity when 
he retires. Any premiums he paid secured an amount of annuity that was based on rates that 
took into account Mr Vs age at the time. Regular bonusses were accrued on these benefits, 
and a final bonus might be added when the policy terminates.
At the outset of the plan, a guaranteed amount of annuity was offered. This was then 
supplemented over the years by the addition of further guaranteed bonusses. Those 
bonusses cannot be removed once added. So at times they can place something of a strain 
on the assets of the plan and thus Aviva will tend to be conservative in their calculation. So a 
further balancing aspect is required  the final bonus. Final bonus rates are regularly 
reviewed and are not guaranteed but are designed to reflect the difference between what is 
already guaranteed and the asset share of the policy.
But Aviva also provided its policyholders with the ability to transfer an equivalent cash value 
of their pension savings to another provider. The annuity amounts were converted to give a 
transfer value using cash option factors that were dependent on the policyholders age and 
the features of the annuity. Since 2006 Aviva says it has applied a discretionary 
enhancement to these factors so they provided better value for money for the policyholder. 
The cash option factors are linked to the current annuity rates. But that does mean that, 
although the underlying annuity value might remain the same, the equivalent cash value 
might change in line with any variation in annuity rates. So, in recent times as annuity rates 
have improved, cash values will have naturally fallen although the annuity value that Aviva 
would pay remains the same.
In 2016 Aviva altered one of the factors that was used in these calculations so that the 
gender of the policyholder was no longer taken into account. But that change was incorrectly 
added to its system and as a result the automated quotations were incorrect - the transfer 
values that were being quoted were too high.The quotation system was fixed in July 2019, so quotations issued after then would show the 
correct transfer value. But around that time Aviva also made changes to the final bonus rates 
that were added to these pension plans. Generally that resulted in the final bonus rates 
being reduced across all the policies although there were variations depending on the year 
when the benefits were purchased and so some policies were affected more than others.
When Mr V received a quotation of his pension savings in July 2018 Aviva failed to process 
that quotation correctly. It sent him the result produced by its quotation system rather than 
the manual calculation it should have performed. So the transfer value that Aviva quoted to 
Mr V was around £10,000 higher than it should have been. Mr V didnt take any further steps 
at that time to put his pension into payment, but he no doubt took note of the transfer 
valuation that Aviva provided to him.
Mr V next received information about the value of his pension benefits from Aviva in 
March 2021. By then two things had happened. Aviva had implemented the correction to its 
quotation system so there was no need to manually calculate the transfer values following 
the change to the gender factors in 2016. And, as I explained earlier, Aviva had made some 
changes to the expected final bonus that would be added to pension policies such as the 
one held by Mr V.
From all the information that has been provided to me it appears that the quotation Aviva 
provided to Mr V in March 2021 was a fair and accurate representation of the pension 
benefits he held with the company. Part of the reduction was as a result of Avivas normal 
business practices and its assessment of the value of Mr Vs pension savings. And, bearing 
in mind what I said earlier about how I would intend to put things right, whilst some of the 
reduction arose from the error Aviva present at the time in the quotation system I cannot 
conclude that Aviva should be expected to honour the higher quotation that Mr V had 
received in 2018.
Ultimately the transfer value that Aviva provided to Mr V in 2021 was a correct 
representation of the value of the pension benefits to which he was entitled. Mr V didnt ask 
for his pension to be put into payment (or be transferred to another provider) in 2018  if he 
had done so I think it more likely than not that Aviva would have noticed the error and 
corrected the quotation at that stage. And I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr V 
has made any irrevocable decisions on the basis of the incorrect quotation. As has been 
shown from the adjustments made to the final bonus amounts in 2019, the values that Aviva 
quoted were not guaranteed and so could change at any time  so I think it would have been 
unsafe for Mr V to make any irrevocable decisions on the basis of valuations that were not 
guaranteed.
I have no doubts that Mr V suffered a great deal of disappointment when he found out that 
the transfer value of his pension savings was much lower than he had previously been told. 
But I dont think that he was ever entitled to receive the higher amount that was derived from 
the error in Avivas quotation system. And I think that Aviva acted entirely within its normal 
and reasonable business practices when it altered the value of the final bonus that was 
being added to Mr Vs plan in 2019.
But I think it is right that Aviva acknowledges the mistake it made in 2018, and the 
undoubted upset that this has caused to Mr V. Aviva has agreed to pay Mr V £300 in respect 
of that trouble and upset. I have considered the amount of that payment carefully. And 
having done so I have concluded that the amount Aviva has agreed to pay is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr V £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he will have been 
caused following the explanation that the equivalent cash transfer value hed been quoted in 
July 2018 was significantly overstated. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mr Vs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman