DRN-4029838
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted his account and passed it on 
to debt collectors. He says he didnt see the notice until after the debt was passed on and 
thinks Santander shouldve done more to contact him than send letters. 
What happened
Mr E held a student account with Santander with an arranged overdraft facility. Mr E stopped 
using the account around January 2020 when it had a debit balance of £1,780. 
Santander sent Mr E a default notice to the registered address it had for him on 6 October 
2020 giving Mr E 14 days to settle the balance. Mr E failed to settle the balance or get in 
contact with Santander, so it defaulted the account and passed this information on to the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr E complained that he never received the notice because he wasnt staying at his home 
address due to the pandemic. Santander says no error was made as it wrote to the address 
it had registered for him and that it was Mr Es responsibility to update it of his address for 
correspondence. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Es concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander sent the default notice to the correct last known address for Mr E and as Mr E 
didnt let Santander know hed moved they didnt think it was unreasonable for it to send the 
default notice to the address it had for him. And as Mr E didnt settle his debt in time they 
didnt think Santander acted unfairly by defaulting the account and reporting this to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr E disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr E has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr E back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Es main complaint point is that it was unfair Santander registered a default on his credit 
file when he hadnt received notice of this. He says he wasnt aware of the outstanding debt 
and doesnt think it is fair he has been restricted financially by having a default registered on 
his credit file. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Santander did anything wrong in removing Mr Es 
overdraft and banking facilities or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, 
notifying him of the actions it intended to take by letter and registering a default when he 
didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in the required time.
I can see that Santander issued the default notice to the last registered address it had for Mr 
E which also matches the address we hold for him. There was no requirement that 
Santander should use alternative communication methods to notify Mr E about the status of 
his account and the actions it was taking.  I accept that during the period in question Mr E 
wasnt living at this address due to the pandemic. I understand that updating his address 
mightnt have been a priority for Mr E, but ultimately the responsibility of this was his. And I 
dont think it would be fair to find Santander at fault for writing to Mr E at the address it had 
registered for him rather than using an alternative means of communication which it was 
under no obligation to do. 
So I dont think Santander acted unfairly when after months of Mr Es account being dormant 
with an outstanding balance that it issued a default notice to Mr E and having no response it 
defaulted the account and registered the this with the credit reference agencies. 
I understand that Mr E is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but 
Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and what was reported is as 
far as Im aware a true reflection of what happened. 
It might assist Mr E to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Es complaint as I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman