DRN-2718511
The complaint
Mr W complained as he wasnt happy about the currency exchange rate provided by Key 
Currency Limited (KCL) or their process during a transaction.
What happened
During May 2020 Mr W used KCL to exchange a significant sum of money into British 
pounds sterling. These funds represented the proceeds of the sale of a property overseas. 
Mr W had used KCL as well as other providers previously for transfers and exchange 
transactions. On this occasion he had several phone calls with KCL about the transfer of 
funds into the KCL account and what would happen next. Once the funds arrived he spoke 
to the same person at KCL who confirmed the sums involved and the exchange rate that 
would be applied. Mr W confirmed he wanted to transaction to proceed.
Mr W went on to contact KCL the next day as hed done a check with an online based 
provider whod quoted a different rate that would have worked to Mr Ws benefit. Mr W 
queried the rate used by KCL and how KCL had benefitted from the transaction. 
Ultimately Mr W complained. KCL didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd provided 
the necessary information, and Mr W had independently chosen to proceed. They 
highlighted the other quote Mr W referred to was from a provider with a different type of 
platform to theirs. KCL acknowledged Mr W spoke with a senior member of their team but no 
resolution was reached.
Mr W acknowledged KCL had done what was required, but he remained dis-satisfied as he 
didnt think hed got a fair deal. He acknowledged that with hindsight he ought to have 
postponed the trade to obtain further information and quotes. Overall he said hed been 
satisfied with previous dealing with KCL and appreciated their efforts to resolve the matter, 
but he remained discontent in respect of this trade.
KCL let us know theyd offered to apply a rate that was more beneficial to Mr W and round 
up the difference to resolve matters. This involved an offer of £2,500, which Mr W refused.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ws complaint. It wasnt upheld. The 
investigator accepted KCL had done what they ought to. In summary, theyd provided the 
requested service, had been sufficiently transparent about the transaction details and 
provided the necessary regulatory warnings.
Mr W continues to feel that he didnt get a fair or competitive deal here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint against KCL. I appreciate hes 
disappointed as he feels he didnt achieve the best exchange rate that he could have. That 
may or may not be true, but that being so, doesnt mean KCL did anything wrong.
In general terms Mr W accepts KCL met their regulatory requirements and provided him with 
the necessary information. This included information about the exchange rate to be applied 
and what that meant for him in terms of the sum hed achieve in British sterling. I agree KCL 
did this. Ultimately the rate offered to Mr W was a matter for KCL, and for Mr W to accept or 
reject.
Mr W feels on reflection he ought to have postponed the transaction as he thinks he could 
have achieved a better exchange rate. I appreciate this will feel frustrating but I dont think 
the transaction process was flawed or unfair.
Theres nothing that suggests to me KCL ought not to have accepted Mr Ws authority to 
proceed with the transaction. KCL were provided with his authority and were required to act; 
they had provided the necessary information about the transaction and their role immediately 
in advance of this.
Ive listened to the call recordings with care. The KCL employee does share his person 
opinion about current exchange rates and how things might change. This followed Mr W 
querying the rate he was being offered and a consideration of whether he ought to wait. 
Whilst I accept this thinking may have played some role in Mr Ws decision about whether to 
accept the rate offered in the moment, I dont think it was determinative or a substantive 
motivating factor in going ahead. Mr W was aware of the significant sum involved and the 
impact the exchange rate and any variation may have on this. The rate had already altered 
to some limited degree to what Mr W had previously expected.
KCL went on in the call authorising the exchange transaction to remind Mr W they were not 
providing advice and that any personal views expressed didnt amount to advice; and I think 
its reasonable to accept this is what Mr W would have understood. I dont think the location 
of the funds in a KCL account prior to the currency exchange limited Mr Ws option to 
research alternative rates elsewhere or that Mr W thought this.
Ive seen what Mr W has told us about his personal circumstances at the time and accept 
how difficult and worrying this must be. However I dont think this undermines the validity of 
the process or Mr Ws instruction for KCL to go ahead with the transaction at the time. This 
was something that had been under consideration and preparation for some time; and I dont 
accept KCL could have been expected to have done anything differently. Mr W doesnt 
express any problems in the call about the transaction and plays an active part in discussing 
the transaction, exchange rate as well as the events leading up to the funds being 
transferred in. 
Mr W made an informed choice about the exchange rate, and what that meant for him. He 
might have achieved a more beneficial exchange rate elsewhere, but that doesnt mean 
KCLs rate or the way they dealt with the transaction was unfair. I dont consider KCL put any 
unreasonable pressure on Mr W to proceed; nor do I think KCL were under any duty to have 
suggested Mr W didnt go ahead at the time.
Mr W told us KCL could have suggested he had a cooling off period. However this isnt how 
these type of transactions usually work and KCLs terms are sufficiently clear about how 
what they do. 
Weve spoken to KCL and understand their offer to Mr W remains available for him to accept 
directly.My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Key Currency Limited. It 
remains a matter for Mr W as to whether he accepts the offer made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman