DRN-1430770
 
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way Allay Claims Ltd (Allay) dealt with his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim.  
What happened
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2019 Mr J signed a letter of authority providing Allay with authority to make PPI 
claims on his behalf against lender M. Mr J recorded his surname as starting with S. The 
authority form included the Terms of Engagement. This explained that Allay would charge 
24% inclusive of any VAT on any compensation paid. 
On 31 May lender M acknowledged a claim for account ending 4713 to Allay. On 16 July 
lender M made an offer for account ending 4713. Allay informed Mr J of this and began 
chasing for its success fee invoice to be paid. The invoice sent on 22 August explained 
Payment Terms: Immediately upon receipt of your refund.
In September Mr J contacted Allay to complain about the constant calls for collection of 
Allays success fee. Mr J explained that each time he called Allay to discuss his account, 
Allay was unable to verify his name and address and he was stressed and need[ed] 
[Allay] to solve this. Mr J said that he moved years ago from that address where [he] used 
to live and changed [his] name by deed poll. Mr J also explained that hed instructed another 
claims management company (CMC W) to represent him in making PPI claims so he didnt 
understand why Allay was still chasing him for payment. 
Mr J contacted this service to complain about the service received from Allay. The 
investigator contacted lender M to find out which company it had details for. Lender M said 
that it had two different companies on its system as Mr Js representative. CMC W 
represented Mr J on a claim for account ending 1205. It also confirmed that Allay was the 
representative for account ending 4713. It said that compensation hadnt been paid for 
account ending 4713 because it was still waiting for Mr J to verify some details. 
The investigator explained this to Mr J and he accepted that the payment for account ending 
4713 is due because of the evidence supporting that Allay had acted as his representative 
for this claim. But Mr J said he wasnt happy with the way Allay had handled the personal 
details it had recorded for him on its system. Mr J said Allay couldve clarified this 
information sooner, and then chased for its success fee to be paid. The investigator 
recommended £50 in recognition of the way Allay had handled the claim, and delays caused 
because of this. Mr J accepted these findings and Allay didnt respond. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, it was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand that this has been an 
upsetting time for Mr J. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings, for 
broadly the same reasons.
Success fee invoice for account ending 4713
Ive looked at the evidence showing the work completed by Allay on the claim for account 
ending 4713, and the confirmation from lender M that it had authority from Allay for this 
account. The evidence supports that Allay acted in line with the Terms of Agreement by 
making the claim. So I think its fair that it charges its success fee as agreed to by Mr J. 
Allays handling of Mr Js name and address
Mr Js claim for account ending 4713 was successful on 16 July 2019. The invoice sent to Mr 
J on 22 August explained the invoice was due Immediately upon receipt of your refund. 
Allay continued to chase Mr J for payment despite him not having received any 
compensation from lender M. 
During a call with a representative in September, Mr J provided information about his name 
and address change. As Mr Js appointed representative I think there was a responsibility on 
Allay to have asked Mr J for further information. Its clear from these case notes that Mr J 
was getting increasingly frustrated by the service from Allay, and one of the main causes of 
this was the incorrect information held by Allay about his name and address. Allay has also 
provided a call recording where Mr J expressed his frustrations with the details held about 
him on Allays system. 
I think there were opportunities to clarify Mr Js information so that an accurate record could 
be created by Allay. This wouldve also prompted it to review the information sent to lender 
M as part of the claim. It wasnt until this service investigated the discrepancies in Mr Js 
details that lender M paid compensation for account ending 4713 to Mr J. 
I accept that Mr J wouldve had to deal directly with lender M to update his details. But I think 
he wouldve done this a lot sooner if Allay had checked that the details it had for him were 
correct, and what lender M was waiting for before making payment. As Allay was chasing for 
its success fee, it shouldve also questioned whether Mr J had received payment, and the 
reason for any delay. I think some of the frustrations and stress caused to Mr J wouldve 
been avoided if these steps had been taken. So I think its fair that Allay compensate Mr J for 
its poor handling of his claim, and the impact on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Allay Claims Ltd can charge its success fee of 24% (inclusive of VAT) for the successful 
claim against lender M for account ending 4713. This invoice is for £137.89. 
Allay Claims Ltd must pay £50 to Mr J as compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
experienced by its poor handling of his PPI claim. This amount can be deducted from the 
invoice, so the total due under the invoice is reduced to £87.89. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Neeta KareliaOmbudsman