DRN-1682426
The complaint
Miss As father complains (on her behalf) that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
prevented her from withdrawing funds from her account and provided poor customer service 
to her in branch.
What happened
Miss A went into her NatWest branch in December 2019 to withdraw funds from her youth 
account. She was asked questions about the funds and became upset, confused and 
anxious by the way the staff were treating her. They told her she wasnt able to withdraw 
£2,000, even though she knew she had sufficient money in the account. Due to the time she 
was in branch, her father, whod been waiting outside, came into the branch. The staff didnt 
change their position and Miss A was told she would need to return to branch the next day to 
withdraw the money.
Mr A complained to NatWest about how his daughter had been treated in the branch and 
about not being able to withdraw the funds. He said the staff member was rude, aggressive 
and spoke to her in a loud tone. And he believed Miss A shouldve been able to withdraw the 
funds.
NatWest explained that the money Miss A was trying to withdraw had only been paid in that 
day, by a BACS payment. So this meant it could still be recalled and taken back out of the 
account until the next day. And it was a large sum of money  PPI mis-selling redress from a 
bank  which was unusual for a youth account, so this is why she was asked questions and 
her withdrawal was declined. It apologised for the service shed received and awarded her 
some compensation for this.
Mr A didnt agree that the level of compensation offered reflected the terrible experience his 
daughter went through, so he brought this complaint to our service on her behalf. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she considered NatWest had acted in line with its 
normal process in declining a withdrawal of that size and proximity to an unusual deposit. 
And she said the compensation offered was fair for what had happened. Mr A, on behalf of 
Miss A, disagreed and provided further submissions. So the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the submissions Mr A made on behalf of Miss A following our investigators 
assessment. But I dont consider he has raised any substantive new points. His focus in the 
further submissions seems to be on our investigators findings and handling of the case. 
These have been dealt with separately by our internal service review and  as I am 
reviewing all the evidence and coming to my own decision  its not necessary for me to 
comment on the quality of the investigators service. If there were any errors or omissions 
material to the circumstances of the complaint, I can put that right here. From reviewing Miss As account statements, its clear that this was an unusual transaction 
for her or, indeed, any consumer of her age. Ive looked at statements from 2014 to 2019, 
and up until November 2019 this account hadnt received a credit payment of more than 
£400. So a payment into the account of £2,419.56 was unusually large. And the payment 
was named as PPI Redress Accoun[t]. PPI was sold alongside certain types of 
borrowing/credit and to take this out you generally needed to be over 18 years old. PPI mis-
selling has also long been banned by the regulator, so wouldnt ordinarily affect the holder of 
a youth account nowadays. This refund payment was therefore very unlikely to be for 
Miss A, as she was 17 years old when it was made. So considering this, I understand why 
the request for withdrawal so soon after deposit concerned NatWest and meant it needed to 
ask Miss A further questions.
This type of due diligence is part of responsible banking. If there are unusual transactions 
on a customers account, the bank has a regulatory responsibility to make sure the funds 
have been received by the right customer and, if money is being withdrawn, that its going to 
the right person. 
NatWest has said that Miss A wasnt able to fully explain the nature of the payment and 
became uncomfortable when questioned about it. I understand the funds were actually being 
paid into her account for Mr A, so this is why she may not have had full knowledge about 
them. And as a young woman on her own in the branch, I appreciate why the situation may 
have made her feel anxious, especially as shes also raised concerns about how she was 
treated. But, while of course a customer should always be treated fairly and appropriately, 
NatWest does have to question customers about unusual credits and transactions, so I cant 
say it acted unfairly by doing this. I will, however, deal with Miss As concerns about the way 
it went about this later in my decision.
The other important factor in this case is the type of transaction used to credit Miss As 
account. The money was paid in by BACS and these transactions can be recalled the same 
day they are made. Due to this, NatWest has a policy where its at staff discretion whether a 
customer is allowed to withdraw these funds on the same day they are credited. This is to 
protect both the bank and its customers.
In this case Miss A was looking to withdraw £2,000 of the PPI Redress payment on the 
same day the funds were credited. So in line with the above policy, the NatWest staff 
member had to determine if it was appropriate to let her do this, when the funds could still be 
recalled. As this was an unusual transaction and Miss A wasnt able to satisfy NatWests due 
diligence, the staff member chose not to allow her to withdraw the funds until the next day, 
when they couldnt automatically be recalled.
Reviewing the situation, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly  or contrary to the terms 
and conditions of the account contract  in requesting Miss A return to withdraw the funds 
the next day. I appreciate why she may not have had a full understanding about the funds, 
but as this was an unusual transaction for her account and, based on what Mr A has told us, 
she was confused and anxious in the branch, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest 
to make Miss A wait a day to withdraw the money. And I can see that Miss A was able to 
withdraw the funds the next day  so the inconvenience was relatively short-lived, and we 
have seen no evidence that it otherwise caused material loss or hardship (not already 
compensated). 
Miss A has said that the branch staff were rude and spoke in a loud and aggressive manner 
towards her. NatWest agreed to pay for Mr As £6 parking costs; £20 compensation for the 
two hours they spent in branch; £60 to cover a parking fine Mr A received; and offered £20 
of high street shopping vouchers for the service received.  As NatWest has apologised for the level of service received and awarded compensation, its 
accepted that there were failings in the service provided. So Ive reviewed whether the level 
of compensation awarded is fair. As I dont agree NatWest acted incorrectly with regards to 
processing Miss As withdrawal, the compensation amount only needs to recognise the 
failings in the interaction between her and the staff.
Mr A has said Miss A was discriminated against by NatWest, in particular due to her age, 
race and religion. But as Ive set out above, NatWests actions were in line with the 
businesss standard procedure for this kind of situation  which apply to every customer. So 
Ive seen no evidence which supports this. 
In all the circumstances, I think the compensation offered is fair and reasonable. I havent 
seen any evidence of unlawful discrimination on the basis of protected characteristics, so it 
seems that NatWest is only guilty of not having treated Miss A with a greater level of 
empathy and understanding given her youth and evident anxiety. Looking at the total amount 
offered by NatWest, I think it is in the region of what I would have awarded for this failing. So 
I dont consider NatWest needs to pay Miss A anything further.
There has been some dispute in correspondence as to whether the shopping vouchers were 
sent/received. If this isnt yet resolved, NatWest should issue the £20 voucher as soon as 
reasonably possible.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint and make no award save 
that National Westminster Bank Plc should ensure that the £20 shopping vouchers it offered 
have been sent (if this hasnt already happened). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman