DRN-4085577
The complaint
Mr R complains that he has no online access to a Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage he holds with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr R said this was impeding his ability to make overpayments within 
his allowance on to the mortgage, so he wanted Barclays to fix this. 
What happened
Mr R said he had no access to his BTL mortgage through Barclays app or online banking. 
He wanted to make some lump sum payments, and was unhappy about doing so when he 
couldnt see online that the money had arrived safely. Mr R said he could have made lump 
sum payments to the mortgage over the last few years, which would have reduced the 
monthly interest payments he was making, but he wasnt happy to do that without being able 
to see the status of the mortgage online. 
Mr R said that even if he rang, and put up with what he said were entirely unreasonable call 
waiting times, Barclays still couldnt confirm that money paid to his mortgage had arrived. Mr 
R said he has a very busy job, and he just couldnt wait the excessive amount of time it 
would take to speak to Barclays. 
Barclays said the particular type of BTL mortgage Mr R has, unfortunately isnt visible online. 
It said if Mr R wanted information on this mortgage, then he would have to call. Barclays said 
it was sorry that it had long wait times for calls, but it said that at the moment, this was due to 
factors beyond its control. 
Barclays said that it could confirm the payments Mr R had made recently had been received, 
and credited to his mortgage. It said it does usually take a few working days for payments to 
be posted to this BTL mortgage. 
Barclays said Mr Rs mortgage had an early repayment charge until early February 2024. 
Barclays did accept that when Mr R contacted it, and when he tried to raise his complaint, he 
hadnt received the level of service that it would like to give its customers. It offered £150 to 
say sorry for its lapses in service. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He looked at what had gone 
wrong here, and noted that Mr R had tried repeatedly to raise a complaint about why his 
mortgage wasnt showing on the Barclays app. He also said that Barclays at one point told 
Mr R that it couldnt confirm it had received the overpayments he had made. Mr R then 
contacted Barclays again, to get confirmation his complaint had been raised and that his 
payments had been received. Barclays hadnt raised the complaint, and told him to go into a 
branch to discuss his mortgage account. Mr Rs complaint was eventually logged on 9 
November. 
Our investigator said Mr Rs complaint should have been logged by Barclays when it was 
first raised, on 4 November. He noted that Barclays had rightly apologised for the service Mr 
R received, and offered £150 for a disconnected call, his complaint not initially being logged, 
and the wait times Mr R encountered. But on the core issue Mr R wanted Barclays to fix, 
making his account visible online, Barclays said it couldnt do that. It said Mr R could call for 
information on his mortgage, although it appreciated there were long wait times. Barclays 
didnt agree that its system had prevented Mr R from making overpayments, so that hed 
ended up paying more interest on his mortgage. 
Our investigator said Barclays had explained, on a call with Mr R, why his particular 
mortgage wasnt visible on Barclays app or via online banking. Our investigator said he 
could understand why Mr R would be cautious about making a payment to his mortgage if he 
couldnt view it online and check it was received. But Barclays had confirmed overpayments 
were still possible, and Mr R can then either call to confirm, or wait for Barclays to issue its 
confirmation letter in a couple of working days. Barclays had also suggested Mr R could call 
first thing in the morning, when its quieter, or it would call Mr R back. Our investigator said 
the second of these, the call back, might not suit Mr R, but calling earlier might be possible. 
Ultimately, our investigator said that our service cannot tell Barclays to change or update its 
systems so Mr Rs mortgage is visible online. From the evidence hed seen, there wasnt 
anything further Barclays could do. And the problems hadnt in fact prevented Mr R from 
making overpayments. Our investigator said Mr R had made three overpayments on 4 
November, and had received Barclays letters confirming payment. Barclays had also given 
options for how Mr R could check payments were received before these letters are sent. So, 
whilst our investigator noted that Mr R told us his job is busy, our investigator still thought 
Barclays had helped as best it could to resolve things for him.
Mr R didnt agree. He said hed been forced to make payments into a black hole, because he 
couldnt; se his mortgage online. He said he had no option but to make payments or he 
would have lost his right to make 10% overpayments annually. He said hed been kept 
waiting for hours just to see if money had been received. Mr R said hed been bombarded 
with advices of payments and new mortgage monthly repayments from Barclays, but that 
only happened since our service started investigating his complaint.
Mr R still didnt think this was fair. Other Barclays customers can see their mortgage 
accounts via online banking, but he couldnt. And he thought it was insulting for us to ask 
him to call the bank early in the morning. 
But our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Barclays was sending Mr R payment 
confirmation and statements. He said it was Mr Rs choice to make overpayments, he didnt 
have to, and Barclays wouldnt penalise him if he didnt. Our investigator said the payment 
notifications didnt just start when Mr R complained, they were sent to him before our 
involvement in the complaint. And our investigator said Barclays was treating Mr R the same 
as other customers who have the same sort of BTL mortgage as him. 
Mr R said again that call wait times were unacceptable. He stressed how unhelpful it was to 
be sending payments of thousands of pounds, and having to wait days to know they had 
been safely received. He repeated that the advices of payment receipt only started after our 
involvement in the case, and that other Barclays BTL customers can see their mortgages 
online 
Our investigator asked Barclays for the overpayment acknowledgement letters it had sent to 
Mr R, and forwarded them. Mr R still didnt agree. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Before looking at the issues in this complaint, Id like to acknowledge that there has been 
some discussion between Mr R and our investigator about whether Mr R received payment 
acknowledgment letters before his complaint came to us. It appears as if our investigator 
thought Mr R could be suggesting that Barclays had only decided to write to acknowledge 
his payments, when our service became involved in the complaint.
I can hear, on the call where Mr R was finally able to raise his complaint with Barclays, that 
he said hed just received three letters confirming receipt of the three overpayments hed 
recently made. So I think our investigator was right to say that Barclays did write to Mr R to 
confirm these payments had been safely received. It doesnt look to me as if these letters 
were a result of our services involvement in the case. 
Turning to the core issues in this complaint, I understand Mr R, like many bank customers, 
has become accustomed to dealing with banking issues online, and would like to have the 
added security of being able to see this mortgage online too. I can understand that he would 
have concerns about making overpayments, and perhaps particularly about the first 
overpayment, when he cant see the mortgage account online, and be confident payments 
were safely received. 
But Barclays has said that, not long after Mr R took out this mortgage, it changed its online 
systems. And it simply wasnt able to integrate this mortgage product into its new online 
system. So this particular BTL mortgage cant be viewed online, and it also isnt available to 
be viewed by many of Barclays call agents. 
Although I understand why Mr R wants the online banking functionality, and I accept this 
would be more convenient and more reassuring for him, Ive not been able to see that 
Barclays has promised to make this available to him, or that its otherwise required to do so. 
I understand why Mr R says its poor customer service not to have this visible online, but I 
dont think Barclays has been unfair or unreasonable, by not making this mortgage visible 
online. 
I also dont accept that Mr R has been prevented from making overpayments on this 
mortgage to date, so that Barclays needs to pay compensation for interest he wouldnt have 
been charged. I note that Mr R has successfully made overpayments to his mortgage 
recently, without online access to his account. And Barclays has acknowledged these. I 
hope that, even if the overpayment arrangements remain less than ideal, Mr R will find it 
reassuring that the system does appear to be working, and will be more comfortable 
continuing to make such payments in future.
Mr R says its not acceptable to ask him to call, and experience very long waiting times, just 
to confirm payments have been safely received. But Barclays says that even if Mr R does 
call on the same day a payment has made, it wont be able to confirm that the payment has 
been received. It has explained that it takes a few working days for payments to be posted 
to, and visible on, this particular BTL mortgage product. I understand Mr R may consider that 
this is simply more inconvenience, but in my view, its not unusual for overpayments to 
mortgages not to be credited instantaneously. So I dont think that this is unfair or unreasonable. And I note that Barclays is sending Mr R payment confirmations, which I 
consider it is issuing reasonably promptly. 
I know that Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to do more to make his 
mortgage account visible to him online. Barclays says that Mr Rs ERC ceases to be payable 
early next year, so Mr R may then wish to change his mortgage product to something which 
would have better online access.
Barclays has also apologised for the poor service it has provided to Mr R. I can see that it 
took a considerable amount of time and effort on Mr Rs part to raise a complaint with 
Barclays. He told us he continued to experience very long wait times, and, having listened to 
the relevant call, I understand why hes formed the impression that a Barclays agent hung up 
on him, while he was trying to make a complaint. 
I do think the problems Barclays has acknowledged represent poor service. So Im glad to 
see that Barclays as offered a payment of £150 to apologise. I think that provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Rs complaint. It doesnt look as if this payment has 
yet been made, as Mr R didnt want to accept this compensation payment. So Ill ask 
Barclays to pay that now, if it hasnt already done so.
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont otherwise think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must now pay Mr R the sum of £150 that it 
previously offered for this complaint, unless it has already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman