DRN-4076920
The complaint
Ms R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
It isnt in dispute that Ms R authorised the disputed transactions which she ultimately lost to 
the scam. In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow their customers authorised payment instructions without undue delay.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If Monzo 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Given the lack of prior account use, I think the first scam payment arguably ought to have 
prompted intervention by Monzo. It looks as though the account was newly opened. And the 
first ever transaction was a large payment to a cryptocurrency wallet Ms R had set up. I think 
that was enough to alert Monzo to a potential fraud risk. 
However, even if Monzo had intervened at this point and asked further probing questions 
about the nature of the payment Ms R making, Im not persuaded it would have likely 
stopped her from proceeding or have prevented her loss. Ill explain why.
Prior to making those disputed payments which exceeded £10,000, Ms R had to 
contact Monzo to increase her payment limit. When Monzo asked her why she 
needed to do this, she said it was to pay money to her own account which she had 
paid before. 
While Ms R was paying the funds directly to her own cryptocurrency accounts, they 
were then transferred on to the scammers trading platform. And so that was the 
ultimate reason behind needing to increase the payment limit. But she didnt mention 
that the payments were for investing or go into any further detail. 
Im mindful that Monzo didnt probe Ms R further about her explanation. But when 
reviewing her responses, they dont persuade me that, with further questioning, she 
was likely to have divulged much more information that ought reasonably to have 
made Monzo realise she might be at risk of being scammed.
Ms R messaged Monzo several times while it was processing her requests to 
increase her payment limit. She was unhappy it needed to review her requests. She 
said she didnt want any more requests or questions in order to make these 
payments, reiterating it was her money that she was transferring to her own account 
and that she was unhappy with the questions she was being asked.
This Monzo account was set up in August 2020  which is when the scam payments 
started, aside from one earlier payment of £250 made from a credit card account. 
Weve asked Ms R why she set up the account, and shes told us it was for using 
eBay. But that doesnt seem to reflect how the account was actually used. Initially, it 
was being used exclusively to make these cryptocurrency payments. 
Many of these payments were funded from another bank account Ms R held. She 
would transfer funds from there into her Monzo account, then on to the 
cryptocurrency wallets. When the investigator asked Ms R why she did this, rather 
than simply making the payments directly from her existing bank account, she told us 
this was her own choice for ease.
It therefore seems Ms R took steps to load funds more easily, with less chance of 
interference, to her cryptocurrency wallets (to then send to the scammers, thinking 
her money was being invested). Which I think suggests it would have been difficult to 
have dissuaded her from proceeding. 
I do think there was enough Monzo ought to have picked up on to warrant giving 
Ms R a broad warning about cryptocurrency scams. But again, Im not persuaded 
that would reasonably have stopped her from proceeding. 
In response to the investigators view, Ms Rs professional representative argued that 
intervention would have succeeded. It said Ms R had downloaded remote access 
software  which, as Monzo ought to have known, is often an indication as a scam. 
But the investigator has pointed out that this is a change from what they originally 
told us; that Ms R had refused to download this software. I agree with our investigator 
that this makes it less likely this would come up if Monzo had probed further. 
Particularly bearing in mind Ms Rs interactions with Monzo when it did ask her 
questions to review her payment limit increases. 
Additionally, Ms R has confirmed she was aware of mixed reviews online about the 
scam merchant prior to investing and was happy to proceed. While, as the 
representative has pointed out, being aware of mixed reviews doesnt necessarily 
mean someone wont listen to a scam warning from their bank, the reviews Ive found 
predating these payments include some calling the company a scam. So that does 
suggest Ms R already had some awareness of the scam risk. And I think that 
supports the argument that a broad warning from her bank wouldnt have dissuaded 
her. When Ms R reported the scam to Monzo in July 2021, it asked her when she had 
become suspicious. She said she had become suspicious earlier in the year  but 
had been persuaded as the scammers said they had ongoing contracts for her. She 
continued making payments until March 2021  having already (according to the 
trading platform, which was likely fake) made, but then lost, a lot of profit. The fact 
Ms R continued, despite these suspicious, supports my view that a warning from 
Monzo wouldnt have prevented her from proceeding.   
Ms Rs representatives have explained that she was going through a difficult period 
which made her more vulnerable to this scam. Im really sorry to hear that, and 
readily accept that scammers often target or manipulate people based on their 
circumstances. That said, Monzo hadnt been made aware of anything that I think 
ought to have alerted it to Ms Rs vulnerabilities. So it wouldnt have known she might 
need extra support, beyond the usual duty it holds to monitor and respond to 
indicators of fraud risks. 
I appreciate this is a balanced judgment call. But in my view, for the reasons given 
above, Im not persuaded its likely that Monzo would have uncovered the scam and 
prevented the loss if it had questioned Ms R further about these payments or given 
her a better warning. Nor do I think it ought reasonably to have refused these 
requests altogether, given its starting duty to follow Ms Rs payment instructions.  
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds 
after Ms R reported the fraud. But the money had been transferred through Ms Rs 
cryptocurrency wallets and on to the scammers. So Monzo wouldnt have been able 
to recover this; the funds had already been lost. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Ms R, who has lost out due to the cruel actions of 
the scammers. For the reasons given above, Im not persuaded its fair to hold Monzo liable 
for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman