DRN-3180438
The complaint
Miss G complains about Santander UK Plcs (Santanders) decision not to uphold a claim 
she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback or a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that 
in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss G made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Miss G has explained that she exchanged over a hundred emails with the supplier of her 
legal documentation because of their failure to get it right. Miss G has also explained she 
had several highly unsatisfactory calls with them in which she says they were rude, 
aggressive, and unprofessional.
Santander needed to uphold her section 75 claim if they were persuaded there was sufficient 
evidence the contract Miss G had with the supplier had been breached e.g. if the products 
supplied were of unsatisfactory quality, or if the provision of the service had been 
misrepresented to her e.g. if she was told something that was false and that led her to enter 
into an agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into.
Breach of contract
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that the legal products supplied were of 
unsatisfactory quality or that the supplier had breached the contract they had with Miss G in 
any other way.
Whilst I can see that Miss G was unhappy with the documentation and there was a need to 
redraft it, Ive not got sufficient evidence that the revised documentation was inadequate. I 
think Santander would not have been in a position to gauge that without independent advice 
from someone suitably qualified. I think it was reasonable for Santander to ask Miss G to 
provide that information and, whilst I understand the expense involved, I think it would have 
been reasonable to expect Santander to reimburse those consequential costs if the claim 
was subsequently upheld.
I understand that a sign off meeting was cancelled but as the supplier have offered to 
arrange another I dont think its reasonable to suggest theyve breached their contract with 
Miss G.
And because Santander would need to justify any chargeback claim they were to process 
through the chargeback scheme providers, I can understand them not processing a 
chargeback without evidence that the services were not provided.
It must have been frustrating for Miss G to have to spent so much time and effort liaising with 
the supplier to get the documents right and I can understand how upsetting it would be to 
experience poor, rude or aggressive service on the phone to the supplier. But whilst thats 
something Miss G was understandably keen to raise with the supplier it is not something that 
Santander need to consider in their assessment of the validity of the claim. They were only 
required to ascertain whether there had been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. I 
dont therefore think they were wrong not to listen to the calls Miss G directed them to. 
I understand that Miss G is also upset about the service Santander provided when assessing 
her claim. Whilst I can understand Miss G may have wished for better access to Santander 
or a more rapid response I dont think there were significant delays in providing an answer to 
the complaint or that the issues had an impact on the decision.
Misrepresentation
Miss G initially thought that the supplier had provided false information when they claimed to 
be regulated. Theyve since explained that they are but through the Council for Licensed 
Conveyancers. So, I dont think there is evidence of any misrepresentation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman