DRN-4413878
The complaint
Miss B has complained Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter, wont remove a 
credit agreement from her record as she didnt take this out.
What happened
A loan with RateSetter was taken out in Miss Bs name in June 2019. After Miss B split up 
from her ex-partner, she reviewed her finances and realised hed taken out agreements in 
her name. She asked RateSetter to remove this credit agreement, which she didnt believe 
shed taken out, from her credit record.
RateSetter refused to do this as they believed they had no evidence to indicate this wasnt 
taken out by anyone but Miss B.
Miss B brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She also provided evidence that 
shed been in an abusive relationship with her ex-partner.
Our investigator didnt believe RateSetter could have known that Miss B hadnt made the 
application for credit herself. He wasnt going to ask RateSetter to amend Miss Bs credit 
record.
Miss B disagreed with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 October 2023. I believed the evidence indicated 
Miss B was unlikely to have taken out this agreement and asked RateSetter to remove the 
agreement from her record.
Miss B accepted this outcome. No response was received from RateSetter.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision.. What 
follows explains my thinking.
The first thing to confirm is that theres no dispute Miss B has been subject to an abusive 
relationship. Im sure that took many forms and see no reason to doubt her testimony this 
included her partner at the time monitoring and using her phone and email, using her 
account as well as making applications in her name.
I would like to confirm to RateSetter that I have seen evidence to confirm this. I dont feel the 
need to share this to maintain some level of privacy for Miss B.
I can see the credit agreement was taken out in June 2019. The application details all show 
those belonging to Miss B. However based on what Ive confirmed above, and the email 
Miss B sent to RateSetter at the time querying what this agreement was, Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Miss B didnt take out this credit agreement herself.
Im aware from RateSetters records that payments were made in full on this loan and no 
monies are outstanding. I did ask for copies of statements from Miss B to confirm these 
payments were made from her account, but Ive not received these.
The main thing, here is that the evidence indicates that this account was opened without 
Miss Bs consent. There is evidence of other activity taking place in Miss Bs name without 
her consent too.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its most likely Miss B didnt take out the original 
credit agreement. 
Putting things right
As I believe Miss B didnt take out the credit agreement with RateSetter, they will need to 
remove this agreement from her name and from her credit record.
I would mention to Miss B that the removal of a fully paid-up credit agreement will not have 
any real impact on her credit score. However I can completely understand her wanting to try 
to move on with her life and rid herself of her previous association with her ex-partner.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Retail Money Market Limited, trading 
as RateSetter to:
Remove Miss Bs name from the disputed credit agreement; and
Remove any record of this agreement from her credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman