DRN-3598066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on their home 
insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs N are named policyholders on their esure policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs N, Ill refer mainly to Mrs N from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had an esure home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In 
December 2020, they made a claim on their insurance when they noticed water leaking 
through their kitchen ceiling. 
esure appointed a third party surveyor (who Ill refer to as B in this decision) to inspect the 
damage and assess the claim. B concluded the leak was due to failed sealant and grout in 
the bathroom. This type of damage was excluded under the policy terms and esure declined 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs N bought a new bathroom suite in January 2021 but couldnt install it until 
October 2021. During the installation, their plumber discovered a leak coming from a pipe 
below the bathroom floor. This had caused the damage to the kitchen ceiling, as well as 
several kitchen units. Mrs N complained to esure. 
esure again appointed B to inspect the damage. B said Mr and Mrs N had failed to repair the 
sealant following its December 2020 inspection which meant water had been leaking into the 
kitchen ceiling for ten months. Based on this, esure said Mr and Mrs N had failed to mitigate 
the damage to their home and again declined the claim. Mrs N was unhappy with this and 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that they had a valid claim because the damage was caused by a leak from a pipe, 
so was covered by their policy. She didnt agree that esure should pay for the new bathroom 
but thought it should settle the claim. She said Mr and Mrs N should send esure invoices 
showing the cost of any repairs to the pipe, kitchen ceiling, and the damaged kitchen units. 
esure should refund the cost of these repairs, less the policy excess.
esure disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ns policy booklet covers Escape of water/burst pipes (Your cover, Section 7). This 
sets out whats covered by the policy, including loss or damage to Your Buildings or 
Contents as a result of water escaping from water tanks, pipes, fixed equipment, any 
domestic appliance or fixed heating systems 
The same section also says: We will not pay for loss or damage caused by failure or lack of 
appropriate sealant and/or grout. esure declined Mrs Ns original claim based on this 
exclusion.
However, Mrs Ns plumber discovered there was a leak from a pipe when he/she was 
installing the new bathroom. esure hasnt disputed this and Bs November 2021 report noted 
the pipe had been replaced. I see no reason why the pipe would have been replaced if it 
wasnt damaged, so Im satisfied that there was a separate leak from a pipe below the 
bathroom floor. Im also satisfied that any damage caused by this leak was covered by Mrs 
Ns policy.
Ive thought about whether water might have been leaking through just the sealant in 
December 2020 and the pipe leak occurred separately sometime later, after Bs original 
inspection. I think this is unlikely and theres enough evidence to show the pipe was leaking 
in December 2020. For example, esures claim notes say Mrs Ns plumber fixed the sealant 
but the leak persisted: All plumbers been out and repaired pipe under the bath and re 
grouted the tiles but seems to still be a leak. Bs December 2020 report says the same: 
they had a leek [sic] coming through the ceiling plumber attend [sic] and advised it was 
failed grout, this repaired, but the leak continued another plumber attended said it was from 
a pipe. So I think its reasonable to conclude the damaged pipe was leaking at the time of 
the original claim. 
esure has argued that Mr and Mrs Ns new claim shouldnt succeed because they failed to 
fix the sealant in December 2020. This meant they didnt do anything to mitigate the leak 
which got worse over the next ten months. esure also says that if theyd fixed the sealant in 
December 2020, theyd have soon realised the leak was partly due to the failed sealant and 
partly due to the leak from the pipe.
This relates to the duty of care policy term which requires Mr and Mrs N to do all that they 
reasonably can to prevent further loss or damage arising as a result of an event covered by 
Your Policy (General terms and conditions which apply to your policy, page 32).
I dont think esures reliance on this term is reasonable in this case. As Ive said above, Mr 
and Mrs N had tried to fix the sealant. When this didnt work, they reported the leak to esure. 
B said the source was the failed sealant. Given the later discovery of the failed pipe, this 
wasnt right and calls into question the thoroughness of the original inspection. I dont think 
Mr and Mrs N should lose out because of Bs mistake.
In any case, Bs December 2020 report includes photos clearly showing damage to the 
kitchen ceiling. The report also notes that the ceiling was starting to bow. So its clear that 
the pipe and ceiling already needed to be repaired at that time. 
Im satisfied that there was a leak from a pipe in December 2020 that caused water damage 
to Mr and Mrs Ns home. This was covered by their home insurance. If esures surveyor had 
identified this leak in December 2020, I think esure would most likely have accepted the 
claim. I dont think its fair for esure to blame Mr and Mrs N for not mitigating further damage 
when:
1. Theyd already tried to do so.
2. Bs conclusion about the source of the leak was  at least in part  wrong. 
3. The pipe and kitchen ceiling were already damaged.For these reasons, I think esure acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs Ns claim.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs N would like esure to pay for their new bathroom because they replaced 
something that didnt need replacing. Like our investigator, I dont think thats reasonable. 
The leak didnt cause any damage to the bathroom and didnt mean it had to be replaced. 
Their policy covered repairs to the pipe, kitchen ceiling, and kitchen units. I think esure 
should settle the cost of these repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to settle 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim covering the replacement pipe, kitchen ceiling, kitchen units, and any 
related work in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs N should send esure evidence of the cost of these repairs if theyve already 
been done, or quotes for any repairs that havent been done yet. For the avoidance of doubt, 
esure can deduct the escape of water policy excess from any settlement amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman