DRN-2445180
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt offer help when his re-mortgage was 
delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with Accord. His fixed interest rate product was due to expire at the 
end of May 2020. He decided to re-mortgage with another lender offering a better rate. His 
re-mortgage was delayed due to the pandemic. From 1 June 2020 Accord applied its 
standard variable rate (SVR). 
Mr B says he appreciates the delays arent Accords fault. He says it should have been more 
sympathetic given the situation and extended the fixed interest rate until he was able to 
complete the re-mortgage.
Our investigator said Accord had treated Mr B fairly. It offered a payment holiday in 
accordance with Government guidelines. Mr B didnt make a contractual monthly payment in 
June 2020 as he repaid the mortgage before it was due. Our investigator said Accord was 
entitled to apply interest at the contractual rate and didnt have to extend the interest rate 
product. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said a payment holiday didnt help him as he still had to pay the 
interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B intended to re-mortgage when his fixed interest rate product ended at the end of May 
2020. His re-mortgage was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage, Accord applied its SVR from 1 June 2020. Mr B 
repaid the mortgage in late June.
Mr B told Accord that he found the SVR unaffordable. He says it would be fair for Accord to 
extend his interest rate product rather than apply its SVR, given his circumstances. While I 
know Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to 
refund any interest applied during June 2020.
Id expect a lender to respond fairly when a customer is in financial difficulty. Lenders should 
consider what options are available and suitable to support a customer in financial difficulty. 
While waiving interest or reducing the interest rate is one possible option, lenders dont have 
to offer this.
Accord offered Mr B a payment holiday, in accordance with the regulators guidelines at the 
time. Mr B is right to say that interest would still be applied and have to be paid. For this 
reason he didnt think a payment holiday would help him. 
I think it was fair for Accord to offer a payment holiday. Mr B was in the process of re-
mortgaging and (presumably) could afford the payments for the new mortgage. He also had 
the option of taking out a new product with Accord instead of re-mortgaging. He told Accord 
hed struggle with the higher monthly payment due while the SVR applied, but this was a 
short-term problem. A payment holiday might have helped with this.
The delays to Mr Bs re-mortgage were due to events outside his control. But the delays 
werent due to any error by Accord. Accord wrote to Mr B in early March 2020, to remind him 
that his fixed interest rate product would expire at the end of May. This would  ordinarily  
have given Mr B enough time to take out a new product with Accord or to apply elsewhere. 
Accord sent redemption statements when requested, and theres nothing to suggest it 
caused any delays.
Mr B incurred interest at Accords SVR between 1 June and the date his mortgage was 
repaid. The interest was paid as part of the redemption funds. I understand this was a cost 
which Mr B had hoped to avoid. But Accord didnt make any errors here, and I think it treated 
Mr B fairly. It applied the SVR in accordance with the terms of the mortgage. It offered a 
payment holiday to Mr B. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to refund any 
interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman