DRN-3990600
The complaint
Ms C complains about UK General Insurance Limited (UKI) and their decision to decline the 
claim she made on her Touring Caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C held a caravan insurance policy, sold to her by a broker and underwritten by UKI. In 
October 2020, Ms C delivered her caravan to an independent contractor, who Ill refer to as 
X, to complete some remedial/cosmetic work.
But Ms C became unhappy with X and the length of time it was taking to complete the 
agreed work. And when she went to see her caravan in February 2021, she was unhappy 
with its condition and the damage it had sustained in Xs care. So, she made a claim on her 
insurance policy, stating X had damaged her caravan maliciously. 
UKI outsourced the handling of claims such as this to a third-party company, who Ill refer to 
as L. But as L were acting on UKIs behalf when handling the claim, UKI remains 
responsible for the actions L took, and the service they provided. L arranged for Ms Cs 
caravan to be inspected by an independent loss adjustor, who compiled a report stating their 
belief that there was no claim for malicious damage and instead, the damage was down to 
poor workmanship.
But despite this report, L continued to progress Ms Cs claim. And they helped recover Ms 
Cs caravan from Xs care and relocate it to a repairer, who Ill refer to as G. G inspected 
the caravan and deemed it Beyond Economical to Repair (BER), due to the cost of the 
repairs and the availability of replacement parts. So, L initially provided Ms C with a valuation 
for the caravan, at market value.
Mrs C was unhappy with this valuation, which she felt was too low. She didnt feel the policy 
made it clear what market value meant when she purchased it. L returned to UKI to discuss 
a valuation increase and at this point, UKI expressed their opinion that the claim should be 
declined, as they felt the damage was caused due to faulty workmanship rather than 
malicious damage. Ms C was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms C was unhappy with the decision to decline her claim, as she felt it was clear the caravan 
had been damaged maliciously. And she was unhappy that she was told the claim would be 
covered, only for this decision to be overturned some months later. Mrs C also raised 
concerns about the service L provided her during this time. So, she wanted the claim to be 
accepted, a fair valuation paid to her for the caravan, and to be compensated for the upset 
shed been caused.
UKI responded to the complaint and upheld it. They recognised that L accepted the service 
Ms C received was unreasonable, but they thought the £200 L offered was a fair one for this 
aspect of the complaint. And they thought their decision to decline the claim was fair, and in 
line with the terms of the policy Ms C held. But despite this, they thought they had acted 
fairly by covering storage and recovery costs, despite there being no valid claim to pay. So, 
UKI didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms C remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought UKI had acted 
fairly when deciding the damage was caused by faulty workmanship, rather than a malicious 
act. And so, he felt UKI acted fairly when applying the associated exclusion to decline the 
claim. And he thought the £200 L offered, on UKIs behalf, was a fair one to recognise the 
service Ms C received during the claim which L accepted couldve been improved. So, he 
didnt think UKI needed to do anything more.
Ms C didnt agree. She maintained her belief X had damaged her caravan maliciously, and 
she referred to the video and photographic evidence shed provided to support this, as well 
as reiterating her testimony regarding her dealings with X. As Ms C didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £200 offer already put to Ms C is a fair one and that UKI dont 
need to do anything more than this to resolve the complaint.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms C. I dont dispute Ms Cs 
testimony that she placed her caravan in Xs care to complete some remedial work, which 
she expected would be done efficiently, and to the appropriate standard. And I think its clear 
when Ms C visited her caravan again, her caravan was left in a significantly worse condition 
than she expected. So, I can understand why Ms C may feel as though the actions of X were 
taken maliciously and why Ms C feels as though UKI have acted unfairly when declining the 
claim she made on this basis.
But for me to say UKI should do something more than they have already, for example direct 
them to accept and pay the claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong 
when declining it. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms of the 
policy Ms C held when declining the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they 
acted unfairly when declining the claim in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
I think its also important to explain that it isnt my role to re-underwrite Ms Cs claim, as I 
dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is mine and our services role to consider the 
actions UKI have taken and decide whether these actions were fair and reasonable.
Ive seen the terms of the policy Ms C held. And it does explain under the heading What is 
insured that the policy covered Loss or damage as a result of Accidental Damage, fire, 
explosion, lightning and earthquake, theft, malicious acts or vandalism, storm or flood. So, 
for a claim to be accepted, I think UKI needed to be satisfied the damage caused to the 
caravan fell under one of these insurable events.
In this situation, Ms C has claimed the damage was caused maliciously and so, should be 
accepted under this insurable event.
But Ive seen the loss adjustors report compiled following their inspection in March 2021. 
And this states that in our professional opinion the caravan has incurred unnecessary 
irreversible damage due to being left outside to the elements and poor workmanship before 
going onto recommend that we do not believe there is a claim for additional damage or 
malicious damage to the caravan.In this situation, the loss adjustor was the expert who had seen and inspected the caravan. 
And because of this, I think UKI are fair to rely on the opinion they provide, and I dont think I 
can say theyve acted unfairly when doing so. And I think its clear the loss adjustors opinion 
is that the damage has been caused due to faulty workmanship, and Xs failure to store the 
caravan correctly. I dont think either of these actions qualify as malicious, as the definition of 
malicious centres around an offending party intending to do harm. And I dont think Ive seen 
anything that evidences for certain that it was Xs intention to damage the caravan to an 
irreversible extent.
I think this is supported by the fact that, when X spoke to the loss adjustor, they stated their 
intention to continue with the repairs. And X themselves said the caravan was in that state 
as they had stripped it to complete the remedial work initially agreed with Ms C. While Im 
unable to speculate on what Ms C and X did agree as the full extent of the work, and how 
this would be conducted, I have seen a message between Ms C and X in January 2021 
where X tell Ms C the caravan had been stripped and Ms C didnt raise an objection to this in 
her reply. So, I dont think I, nor UKI, could say for certain that X was intending to cause 
damage, or harm, to the caravan when taking this action.
And so, as malicious damage cant be evidenced, I dont think there is an insurable event for 
UKI to cover on this occasion and so, I dont think I can say they were unfair to decline the 
claim.
Further to this, even if there was an insurable event for Ms X to claim under, I can see within 
the terms of the policy that, under the Exclusions heading it states UKI wouldnt cover 
claims that related to Faulty workmanship, design or using faulty materials. The loss 
adjustor has given their professional opinion that the damage was caused due to poor 
workmanship. And its not in dispute that the caravan was placed in Xs care to complete 
remedial and cosmetic work, including the treatment of some damp. Because of this, I think 
this exclusion supports UKIs decision to decline the claim and again, I cant say theyve 
acted unfairly when doing so.
I appreciate Ms C wont agree with this. And I want to reassure Ms C Ive considered all of 
the photographic and video evidence shes provided. This decision isnt intended to 
disregard the damage caused to the caravan, which I agree is significant and I recognise it 
has led to the caravan being deemed BER. But this decision focuses solely on the actions 
UKI, and L acting on UKIs behalf, have taken when progressing the insurance claim. And 
UKI arent responsible for the workmanship of X, and the clear and obvious dispute Ms C 
and X have. 
I recognise Ms C also raised concerns about the initial valuation placed on the caravan. But 
as the claim has since been declined, and I cant say this decline is unfair, I dont think Ms C 
was ever entitled to a payment for the valuation of her caravan and so, I dont think Ms C 
has been negatively impacted by any valuation she was offered. Because of this, I havent 
considered this aspect of the complaint further, nor do I think UKI need to do anything more 
regarding this.
But I do recognise that Ms C was led to believe for a period of time between March and 
September 2021 that her claim would be accepted and paid. And its not disputed by UKI or 
L that this was both incorrect and unfair. I also recognise that L have accepted their service 
provided to Ms C during the claim couldve been improved. So, as these points arent in 
dispute, I dont intend to discuss the merits of them further. Instead, Ive thought about what I 
think UKI should do to put things right, considering the actions theyve taken already. Putting things right
When deciding what I think UKI should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Ms C back in the position she wouldve been, had UKI acted fairly in the 
first instance. 
In this situation, had UKI acted fairly, I think both themselves and L wouldve communicated 
in a way that prevented the confusion surrounding the claim and whether it would be 
accepted. And had they done so, I think Ms C wouldve been made aware of their decision 
much sooner and she wouldnt have had the shock of the claim reversal.
I recognise this has been accepted by UKI. And to recognise this, they agreed to cover the 
storage costs Ms Cs caravan incurred between March to September 2021, when they made 
her aware the claim would be declined. As there was no valid claim, I dont think UKI were 
obliged to cover these costs and so, I think this shows UKI taking steps to recognise the 
impact the delay in declining the claim had on Ms C. I can also see UKI agreed to cover Gs 
own inspection costs, which again they werent obliged to do.
And I can see L offered to pay Ms C £200, which UKI commented on in their own response 
to Ms Cs complaint stating their belief this was a fair offer for the level of service Ms C 
received. And having considered this offer on top of UKIs actions Ive listed above, I think it 
is a fair one that falls in line with our services approach, and what I wouldve directed had it 
not already been made.
I think it fairly recognises the delays in relocating Ms Cs caravan from X to G that L were 
responsible for, and the distress Ms C wouldve felt during this period. I think it also fairly 
recognises the upset Ms C wouldve felt when she was made aware the claim was being 
declined, after being led to believe it would be accepted.
But I think it also takes into account the steps UKI have taken to minimise the financial 
impact to Ms C, by ensuring she wasnt responsible for the storage and inspection costs G 
incurred as UKI accepted G wouldnt have needed to be involved had they communicated 
the claim declinature at the correct time. 
From my understanding, the £200 offered to Ms C hasnt yet been paid and so, if this 
remains the case, I think this £200 should be paid to Ms C.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint about UK General Insurance 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms C £200, if it has not already been paid previously.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman