DRN-4184021
The complaint
Mrs H complained about records that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) kept about her 
which had an adverse impact on her ability to get affordable insurance. Mrs H had a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H raised two queries with Ageas, one for a blocked sink and the other pre-empting 
damage to a fence during storm conditions.
Ageas didnt deal with the first incident as it said there was no damage, and it should be 
dealt with under a home emergency policy if Mrs H had one. Ageas didnt need to deal with 
the fence either as it turned out to be the responsibility of Mrs Hs neighbour. Ageas 
recorded both incidents as escape of water claims.
The claims history is making it difficult for Mrs H to gain new insurance at an affordable cost 
with other insurers. Ageas said they have recorded the queries to comply with regulatory 
requirements.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the records Ageas kept were 
inaccurate. So, he asked for them to be removed and for Ageas to pay £150 compensation  
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ageas disagreed, so the case has been referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has recorded both incidents as potential escape of water claims against Mrs H claims 
history. I dont think this is fair and it has had an unreasonable impact on Mrs H gaining new 
insurance as her premiums are higher.
Neither claim is associated with the cover Mrs H has with Ageas. She isnt covered by Ageas 
for home emergency cover and the fence was the property of her neighbour. I dont think its 
reasonable that Ageas has recorded these incidents as potential escape of water claims, as 
neither were. So, I uphold this complaint.
Ageas said, As we can clearly evidence that there was a genuine and material loss, I think 
FOS need to be clear that and it falls within our standard retention period for claims and that 
this loss ought to show on CUE and impact premiums.
Ageas responsibility is to keep accurate records  they havent done this as it hasnt 
recorded the interactions with Mrs H fairly. The records dont reflect what happened.
Therefore, I require Ageas to remove these records from Mrs Hs history. I also award £150 
compensation  this covers any small increase in premiums she may have paid and the 
inconvenience this had on her having to sort out her new insurance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Remove the two inaccurate records from Mrs Hs history
Pay £150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman