DRN-2947713
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked his account without giving him notice, 
or explaining why. He says Metros actions were motivated by discrimination on the grounds 
of his nationality.
  
What happened
On 24 September 2019, Metro blocked Mr Ms accounts while it carried out a review. It didnt 
give Mr M advanced warning and it didnt explain the reason for its decision. Mr M contacted 
Metro to ask why his account had been blocked, but Metro didnt release the block. It asked 
him to provide certain information such as proof of address and photographic identification, 
which Mr M promptly supplied. Mr M chased Metro after supplying the information, but the 
block remained.
Mr M complained to Metro, asking it to explain why it had blocked his accounts. Metro issued 
its final response to Mr Ms complaint on 2 October 2019. It said it had blocked the accounts 
in line with the terms and conditions, and said it could only tell him his accounts would 
remain under review until further notice. Mr M brought his complaint to our service and 
asked us to look into Metros actions.
On 18 March 2020, Metro issued a letter to Mr M saying it could no longer continue to act as 
his bankers. It said his accounts would be closed in 60 days.
When our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint, she said Metro was entitled to block and 
close Mr Ms account, but that it took longer than it should have done to release the block, 
after it had completed its review. She said Metro should pay Mr M £250 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience Metros delays caused.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings. He said his complaint wasnt about the money 
and that it was unfair that Metro had blocked his accounts for so long.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
I understand Mr M is frustrated with Metro, and that he feels Metro have discriminated 
against him on the grounds of his nationality. But if Im to uphold his complaint, Id need to 
be satisfied that Metro has acted unreasonably or done something wrong. And, having 
looked at everything both parties have sent me, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they have to comply. As part of these obligations, 
sometimes banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain 
documents or information. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to take the actions it 
did. Metro has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ms accounts and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
I understand Mr M wants to know why Metro blocked his accounts and why the review lasted 
so long. While I can say that Ive reviewed Metros actions and am satisfied it did nothing 
wrong, I cant reasonably tell Metro to disclose the reasons for the block and review, 
because its under no obligation to reveal those reasons. So, its entitled to choose not to if it 
wishes. 
Because of what Ive said above, Im satisfied Metros actions were born out of its legal and 
regulatory obligations, and not for any other reasons.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
A bank doesnt always have to give reasons for its decision to close an accounts. Having 
considered the information Metro has provided, Im satisfied it acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms account when it closed Mr Ms accounts. The terms and 
conditions require it to give 60 days notice, which Metro did. And the terms dont require 
Metro to explain why it has decided to close the accounts.
Delays
With that said, I agree with our investigator that Metro took longer than it should to release 
the block. And, while much of the anguish was caused by the initial block and Metros refusal 
to disclose its reasons, I can see Mr M experienced further distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the extended delay. Based on the evidence Metro has provided, I take the view that 
it should have released the block on 8 October 2019. So, to compensate Mr M for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of Metros delayed release of his 
funds, Metro must pay him £250 in compensation.
In summary, I understand Mr M wants to know why Metro blocked his accounts, and why it 
did so for so long. But, having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Metro was acting in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and closed his 
accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions.
I recognise Mr M will be disappointed with my outcome, but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I cant reasonably ask Metro to do more than pay him £250.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr M £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman