DRN-1068980
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account which it called the Advance Account (AA).
What happened
Mr H held a fee free bank account with HSBC for a number of years and upgraded to the AA 
in January 2008 which incurred a monthly fee of £12.95.
The AA provided a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance and preferential 
loan and overdraft rates.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt think the AA was mis-sold. Mr H 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr H was aware the AA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking it out.
I think its more likely than not that he was. 
Mr took out a fee free account with HSBC prior to January 2008. Mr H says that HSBC told 
him he had to take out the AA in order to be given the loan he was asking for when he 
upgraded.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr Hs honest recollections, I think after the years that have elapsed, Mr 
Hs memory is mistaken. I say this because HSBC has provided evidence that prior to taking 
out the AA he had taken out two loans with his fee free account. And I think hed have been 
aware that loans were available from other banks and financial institutions without the need 
to pay for a bank account as they were widely advertised.
So I dont think I can reasonably say that its more likely than not that HSBC told him he had 
to take out the AA to get a loan as I would need to in order to uphold his complaint on this 
point.
So I think Mr H was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the AA.
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AA to Mr H personally or advise him to take the account out. I dont know what was said during 
the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Hs needs and 
circumstances or a suitability check to show me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mr H and 
explaining the benefits of the AA, HSBC may have said or implied that it was a good idea to 
take it out. But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. And based on this services 
knowledge of HSBCs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that HSBC 
sold the AA to Mr H on an information only basis. 
So, HSBC needed to provide Mr H with enough information about the AA to make an 
informed choice. And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AA provided worldwide travel insurance, preferential rates on overdrafts, savings, and 
loans; fee free cash withdrawals around the world, an annual 10% refund of credit card 
interest paid, and discounts on holidays and other types of insurance. 
I dont know what information Mr H was given, but I think he understood and wanted many of 
the benefits of the AA. I say this because HSBC has provided evidence that Mr H travelled 
abroad regularly and used the interest free cash withdrawals many times. And he benefitted 
substantially from preferential rates on two loans, an insurance policy and use of his 
overdraft.
Mr H couldve cancelled the AA if he wasnt satisfied with it, but he didnt and still has it now. 
And from what Mr H has said about his personal circumstances at the time he took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop him taking advantage of any of the AAs benefits.
So in my view, Mr H knew he had a choice about the AA and decided to take it. And the AA 
was useful for him. There was no information that Mr H wasnt given that would have put him 
off buying it. And it was for Mr H to make use of the AA as he wished.
So I dont think he has lost out as result of anything HSBC may have done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman