DRN-2901027
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the replacement tumble dryer Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) offered him under his appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A claimed under his policy for a replacement tumble dryer after D&G deemed his original 
dryer to be beyond economic repair (BER). He wanted to stick to the same brand of 
appliance so D&G offered a model it considered to be the closest match.
Mr A was unhappy with the model offered because hed have lost some of the drying 
programmes he used. He suggested an alternative model which included all the 
programmes he had before. D&G said it would supply that model but, as it was an upgrade, 
Mr A would need to pay the additional cost of over £500 towards it. 
After Mr A complained, D&G offered another model, which had an upgrade fee of £85, which 
it offered to waive. Again, Mr A didnt think it was good enough and asked D&G to supply the 
model hed found and waive the £500 upgrade fee. D&G maintained its offer of the dryer 
with the £85 upgrade fee waived, or a cash settlement of £729.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that D&G had made a fair offer in 
line with the terms of the policy to replace Mr As dryer with one of a similar specification.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained that the model D&G offered didnt provide all the drying 
programmes he had previously, and, therefore, he felt it hadnt offered to settle his claim in 
line with the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Theres no dispute that Mr As tumble dryer was covered under his appliance insurance 
policy. So, my role here is to decide whether the settlement D&G offered is fair and in line 
with the policy. To be clear, I wont be looking at other dryers to see whether there is a better 
match. Ill be looking at whether the dryer D&G offered is similar to that which Mr A had 
previously, and whether it was reasonable not to provide the model he asked for without 
charging an upgrade fee.
The issue is that Mr A says D&Gs replacement offer doesnt provide the same programmes 
as his old dryer, meaning D&G hasnt adhered to the terms of the policy.
Ive considered D&Gs offer against the following policy term:
Replacements
1. In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same 
or similar make and technical specification.
Throughout his complaint, Mr A mentioned specific drying programmes he had on his old 
dryer which he needed in the replacement. These catered for drying pillows, silks, outdoor 
and sportswear.
Ive looked at the manuals for Mr As old dryer and the model (TCB 140) for which D&G 
offered to waive the upgrade fee. The only differences I can see are those which indicate the 
offered model is of a better specification. For example, a better energy efficiency rating and 
a heat pump. While the programmes Mr A mentions arent specifically named - and theyre 
not for his old model either - the programme descriptions do include his requirements. For 
example, outdoor is within Proofing, and pillows are within Warm Air.
Based on the manuals alone, Im satisfied that the model D&G offered is comparable with Mr 
As model. Therefore, Im satisfied that D&G offered a suitable replacement in line with the 
terms of the policy.
For completeness, Ive gone on to look at the model Mr A asked for, for which D&G said hed 
need to pay an upgrade fee. It does appear to include the same functionality as his old 
model but its clear from looking at the manual that it is a better specification. The policy 
provides for the same or similar specification model. If Mr A wants the higher specification, 
then I think its fair that D&G charges the upgrade fee.
The final point Ill make is that Ive looked at the manufacturers website for information when 
considering this complaint. I can see why Mr A doesnt think the model D&G offered is 
comparable to his old model. Thats because the manufacturers comparison indicates that 
the model offered doesnt have the four functions he wants and had before. However, other 
retailers websites show that it does have those functions. So, I contacted the manufacturer 
and it confirmed that the model TCB 140 has 11 programmes, which include Proofing, Warm 
Air, Shirts, and Delicates. These are the programmes Mr As old dryer provided for the items 
hes specified.
Further to this, the manufacturer suggested an alternative model, TEB 145, which provides 
comparable programmes to Mr As old dryer. This model is a slightly lower price than the 
one D&G offered. I went on to compare this dryer with the one D&G offered using the 
manufacturers comparison tool. The differences are minimal  such as a few millimetres 
difference in size and a slightly different control panel. There are no differences listed in the 
programmes available. This tells me that the model D&G offered, which is comparable with 
that suggested by the manufacturer, is a suitable replacement for Mr As original dryer.
Overall, Im satisfied that D&G made a fair offer to replace Mr As dryer in line with the terms 
of the policy. It offered to waive the upgrade fee of £85 as a gesture of goodwill, but I see no 
reason why it should waive the upgrade fee for a more expensive and sophisticated 
machine. I wont be asking D&G to do any more.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman