DRN-1571320
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the standard of service he received when trying to provide Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) information to HFC Bank Limited (now HSBC UK Bank Plc). 
What happened
Mr L was trying to reclaim PPI on accounts he held with HFC Bank Limited (now held by 
HSBC). When he called HSBC for an update about his PPI refund claim it couldnt find his 
accounts. He asked for a call back, which HSBC made two days later asking for more 
information. It also sent a letter asking for the information. Mr L felt that HSBC hadnt tried to 
look for his accounts first and he was unhappy that HSBC refused to give him a direct email 
address for his case handler. 
He used public transport to visit the branch and says he waited for hours before it took 
photos of his information and sent them to his case handler. On his way home, Mr Ls travel 
was disrupted causing more delays, meaning that the whole journey had taken all day. Mr L 
has limited mobility so the journey was difficult for him and he feels HSBC didnt make 
reasonable adjustments for him to access its service.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for HSBC to ask for more information to help it 
find the accounts. She also pointed out that as Mr L needed to get the information HSBC 
needed from another bank, it wasnt responsible for Mr L having to travel to get it. As his 
other bank was near the HSBC branch, he called in to deliver the information while he was in 
the area, so she didnt feel that HSBC failed to make reasonable adjustments.
Our investigator explained that Mr Ls and HSBCs recollection of events differed and HSBC 
doesnt have call recordings to confirm the details of conversations. However, the record of 
events on its account notes for Mr L supported HSBCs timeline. For that reason she did not 
think that HSBC contributed to Mr Ls lengthy journey.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L didnt agree with her view because he felt it was questionable that HSBC didnt have 
the call recordings, especially as it records calls for training purposes.  He was also unhappy 
at the implication that he lied about events.
The case is now with me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.Firstly, Id like to explain that in reaching a fair decision where there is conflicting information, 
I look at what is most likely to have happened. Unfortunately, this means that one side of a 
dispute may feel that they havent been listened to or believed. Id like to reassure Mr L that I 
dont intend for my decision to suggest he has given incorrect information. However, in the 
circumstances of this complaint it is likely that HSBCs records are a more accurate 
reflection of the timeline. This is because the records were made at the time of the relevant 
events and I have no reason to doubt what they say. I realise that Mr L feels otherwise but 
from an impartial view, Im satisfied they can be relied upon as a record of what most likely 
happened. Im sorry if Mr L feels dissatisfied with this.
Mr L and HSBC agree that it asked for more information so that it could find his accounts but 
Mr L feels it didnt try hard enough to find the accounts first. I can understand his frustration 
at needing to provide information which he didnt have to hand but I think it was reasonable 
for HSBC to ask him for more details so that it could identify the relevant accounts. This is 
because the accounts were closed some years before Mr Ls PPI refund claim and before 
his contact with HSBC. I am satisfied that HSBC made a reasonable request of Mr L.
I can see that Mr L is unhappy because HSBC didnt give him his case handlers email 
address and because he had to travel to the branch. He thinks HSBC didnt make 
reasonable adjustments for his mobility. I can also see that Mr L is unhappy about the delays 
and overall time it took him to provide the information. 
I empathise with Mr L and acknowledge that dealing with this matter likely took a long time. 
However, I dont think HSBC caused any delays or asked him to travel to its branch for the 
sole purpose of delivering information. 
I say this because, while HSBCs letter to him confirms its request for information, it doesnt 
state that he must visit a branch. I acknowledge that it doesnt provide an email address to 
which he could send the information, but it does have a phone number. HSBCs records 
show a call with Mr L at midday on the day he visited the branch. The records say that he 
called HSBC to say he was happy that hed got the information from his other bank just 
across the road and was walking over to deliver the information. 
So the main purpose of his travel was to get the information from another bank, not because 
HSBC wanted him to specifically hand deliver the information to its branch. The other bank 
happened to be near the HSBC branch. I havent seen any evidence to suggest HSBC 
asked Mr L to travel, so it wouldnt have known that it needed to offer reasonable 
adjustments at this point. I am satisfied that HSBCs request for information wasnt the sole 
purpose of his travel and that it wasnt presented with a situation where it shouldve offered 
reasonable adjustments.
Three hours later he had a call with HSBC and then went into the branch with the 
information from the other bank. His account records show that within 45 minutes the branch 
had emailed the information to his case handler. Because the branch emailed the 
information to his case handler, there wouldve been no need for HSBC to provide Mr L with 
a direct email address. As this timeline includes Mr Ls travel to another bank and time spent 
in that bank before visiting the branch to deliver the information, I am satisfied that the 
evidence doesnt indicate HSBC caused delays.
Mr L was also unhappy with the delays to his journey home from HSBC because of 
disruption to public transport. Im sorry that Mr L experienced the travel delay and I can see 
how the disruption wouldve contributed to his overall frustration. However, itd be 
unreasonable for me to hold HSBC responsible for something over which it has no control 
and for a journey it didnt ask Mr L to make. In summary, I accept that Mr L felt the whole situation was frustrating, time consuming and 
inconvenient, but I dont think HSBC caused the events which led to the situation. I think 
HSBC dealt with the situation as Id expect it to.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman