DRN-3447915
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr J complain that Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited cancelled their 
home insurance policy without notifying them.
Mr J has taken the lead in this complaint and I will refer to him in my decision for ease of 
reading. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr J says he received a renewal notice from Barclays. This told him his 
policy would automatically renew for another year and he didnt have to do anything if he 
didnt want to make any changes. He didnt want to make any changes, so he didnt contact 
Barclays and assumed his policy had renewed.
In September 2021 Mr Js home was burgled. He contacted Barclays to make a claim under 
his policy. He says after spending some time discussing his claim, he was told his policy had 
been cancelled back to the renewal date in February. Mr J wasnt made aware the policy 
had been cancelled and raised a complaint.  
Barclays says it wrote to Mr J in March 2021 to say it had been unable to collect his renewal 
premium of £493.50. The letter advised Mr J to make contact if he still required the policy by 
mid-March. Barclays says if it didnt receive a payment by this time the policy will lapse as of 
the end of February 2021.
Mr J says he didnt receive this letter. He thinks Barclays should have contacted him to tell 
him the policy was cancelled. He also says the business had his email and phone number 
but didnt contact him using these methods. 
Barclays says it followed the terms of its policy and its Mr Js responsibility to ensure 
payment is made. It declined to cover his claim for losses from the burglary.  
Mr J didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He thought Barclays had reasonably shown it had written to Mr J when 
it couldnt collect the payment, and this was in line with the policy terms. He also says Mr Js 
monthly statements will have shown the payment hadnt been collected, and he wouldnt 
have received any policy documents. 
Mr J says postal services werent running properly during the pandemic, which may explain 
why he didnt receive the letter. And he maintains that a letter shouldve been sent after the 
cancellation. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Im sorry this will be a 
disappointment for him, but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr J confirms that he received the renewal notice mailed to him by Barclays. This was dated 
toward the end of January 2021. Ive read the letter. It says the policy is due to renew at the 
end of February. It also says renewal documents are available to view online and Mr J 
should check the cover still meets his needs, if not he should call Barclays to discuss. The 
letter says if Mr J is happy with everything, he neednt do anything else. 
I can understand from this why Mr J thought his insurance policy had renewed for another 
year. Unfortunately, the premium for £493.50 couldnt be collected by Barclays. I have seen 
a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr J at the start of March 2021. The address on the letter 
is correct. It explains the renewal premium wasnt collected and Mr J needs to pay this if he 
wants the cover to continue. 
I dont dispute Mr Js account that he didnt receive this letter  but I have no reason to 
consider it wasnt sent. I have read the policy terms highlighted by Barclays that determine 
what action is should take in these circumstances. The terms say:
we may cancel your policy or additional covers where there is a valid reason, for example 
where:
You have not paid your premium when due. If you miss a payment we will write to you giving 
a further date to pay. If we dont receive payment by then we will cancel the policy from the 
date shown on the letter.     
Im sorry to hear Mr Js home was burgled in September 2021 and that no cover was in 
place at this time. But I think Barclays has shown it acted reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms when cancelling the policy. I acknowledge Mr Js comments that Barclays had 
his email address and phone number to contact him on. But the policy terms are clear that 
written confirmation is sent in these circumstances.  
I note Mr Js annual premium was £493.50. This is not an insubstantial sum of money. I think 
its reasonable to expect this would be noticed when it wasnt collected. Even if Mr J didnt 
notice in time to prevent the policy cancelling, it wasnt until around six months later that he 
had the need to make a claim. I think its reasonable to expect this couldve been noticed 
during this period. Mr J could then have arranged for cover to be provided.  
Having considered all of this I think Barclays treated Mr J fairly and in line with its policy 
terms when cancelling his cover and declining his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman