DRN-2802496
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG)  
to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with British Steel 
(BSPS) as well as from another smaller DB pension (DB2) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In late 2016, Mr P was looking to get some advice on both his DB pensions. He says his 
local mortgage adviser put him in contact with an unregulated introducer (JM). JM referred 
Mr P to another firm for advice (Fiducia).They completed some of the initial paperwork for 
Mr P and requested information from the DB pension schemes, but as they didnt have the 
relevant permissions to advise on DB pension transfers they involved BRG to provide the 
pension transfer advice. 
A fact find was completed in April 2017 which showed:
Mr P was 50 years old, married, and in good health. He had two children, aged 17 
and 22. (Mr P says they were both financially dependent.). He earned £36,000 per 
year. He had an outstanding mortgage of £51,000 and £2,000 in other debts. He had 
a life insurance policy worth £220,000 and savings of £8,000. 
Mr P was also member of his employers money purchase pension scheme which 
provided employer contributions of 8%.
He wanted to retire at 65 
BRG issued a report which recommended Mr P to transfer his DB2 benefits worth around 
£108,000 in May 2017. A couple of months later Fiducia asked BRG to provide Mr P with 
advice on transferring his BSPS pension too. BRG also recommended Mr P to transfer these 
benefits. At the time the transfer value was around £275,000. BRG said they only advised on 
the transfer itself. Fiducia would be responsible for the investment recommendations. BRG 
did say in their suitability report however that they were aware Mr P would go into a 
particular SIPP and use a specific discretionary fund manager (DFM). They said the 
intended investment into the DFMs Growth Portfolio was appropriate for Mr Ps attitude to 
risk and capacity for loss. 
Both transfers out of the DB schemes and Mr P moving into a drawdown plan were 
recommended as the best option for him for the following reasons: 
Allows you to access your Tax-Free Cash any time after age 55. 
Gives you flexibility in the future. 
Allows you to take a higher or lower level of income you need. 
Allows you to leave your money to whomever you chose on death. 
Mr P complained in 2019 about the advice he received from BRG and Fiducia. He also 
complained to the DFM. He said he was given flawed advice which caused significant 
financial losses. BRG rejected his complaint. 
Mr P referred his complaint against BRG to this service. Fiducia and the DFM are both in 
liquidation, so complaints against them cant be considered by this service.
One of our investigators upheld Mr Ps complaint. He thought BRG had given unsuitable 
advice and Mr P should have been advised to stay in his DB schemes.
BRG disagreed and so Mr Ps complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. BRG should 
have only considered a transfer from either scheme if they could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ps best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied the transfers were in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
DB2 scheme
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return required to match the DB2 pension at retirement at age 60 (critical
yield) was 12.65% per year. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given 
which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017, and was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate.
And I think Mr P was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
DB2 scheme at retirement.
I appreciate that at the time BRG gave Mr P advice on this transfer, they apparently 
assumed he was keeping the BSPS pension. So based on this assumption and taking into 
account that he also had a money purchase pension which would increase over the next 15 
years and that his wife also had a final salary pension accrued over 26 years worth of service, they considered he had capacity to take some risk with his pension. And I agree that 
this might have been the case.
However, looking at the critical yields here, its clear that even if he took a very high risk with 
his pension (and BRG had Mr P recorded as a highest medium risk investor), it would be 
highly unlikely he could match, let alone exceed his DB pension benefits. 
I appreciate BRG considers the critical yields not as particularly relevant. However, I 
disagree. It does provide a good indication of the value of benefits a consumer is giving up 
by transferring and the regulator deems it an important part of the decision-making process. 
So I deem them highly relevant. 
BRG used cash models to show that Mr P could take the same benefits from the SIPP than 
from the DB scheme and sustain this until different ages depending on growth levels. 
However, these illustrations showed that with returns of 2% per year, funds would run out 
before his average life expectancy. With returns of 5% benefits would last until age 87 (or 91 
for BSPS). However, there was a risk Mr P could live longer or returns of lower than 5% 
would be achieved. Of course Mr P could have taken lower benefits and extended the time 
his benefits would last, however I cant see the benefits of doing this. And I also see no 
reason why Mr P needed to take these risks with his pension.
In my view a transfer made no sense financially.
BSPS scheme
BRGs transfer analysis showed that the critical yields to match the benefits available in 
BSPS were 9.69% at age 65 and 5.62% if BSPS moved to the PPF. The relevant discount 
rate closest to when the advice was given was 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. This was 
expected to provide similar benefits to BSPS albeit with lower increases.
So when BRG gave their advice in July 2017, they should have considered that BSPS2 
could have been an option for Mr P. Even if they didnt have information yet about the likely 
benefits in BSPS2, it was reasonable to assume they would be somewhere between BSPS 
and PPF benefits and they should have considered waiting with their advice until more 
details were known.
In any event, even if I consider the lowest critical yield of 5.62% which assumes benefits 
taken from the PPF, I think it was unlikely Mr P could match his DB benefits in the SIPP.
I note that Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as highest medium (6 out of ten). However, I 
do have concerns about this assessment. In his original client review form with Fiducia, the 
answers in relation to his attitude to risk do in my view do point to someone with a lower 
attitude to risk.
He answered agree to the following the statements:
I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in shares.
I do not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty.
I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain 
about my investments.When I am faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the 
possible losses than the probable gains.
And to the question how much of the investment he could stand to lose without having a 
significant impact on his future standard of living, he answered small losses could be 
tolerated. 
Mr P was assessed as highest medium risk investor, a low medium investor and then back 
to highest medium risk investor. Mr P says he was a cautious investor and in my view the 
risk questionnaires Ive seen and the fact that Mr P didnt have any significant investment 
experience support this.
Even if I assumed he was a medium risk investor, I think achieving returns of 5.62% year on 
year would have been difficult. And simply matching the DB benefits wouldnt have been 
sufficient to make a transfer financially viable. There needed to be a reasonable chance for 
the SIPP to provide higher returns than this and I think this was even less likely. 
I also note that by this point BRG had already advised Mr P to transfer out of his DB2 
pension and the BSPS benefits made up the majority of his retirement provisions. So he 
couldnt afford to take great risk with them in my view.
In summary, even if BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ps benefits were reduced, he was 
very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a SIPP. And if he 
chose to switch to BSPS2 that chance was even lower. By transferring his pension it was 
highly likely Mr P would be financially worse off in retirement. 
So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ps best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
flexibility and death benefits
Mr Ps objectives of being able to take benefits flexibly and providing a lump sum to his 
family in case of his death were in my view generic without much foundation. I havent seen 
any persuasive that Mr P had a strong need for flexible income. He also had a money 
purchase pension which he could have used more flexibly than his final salary benefits from 
age 55. The possibility to take tax-free cash at any point after age 55 was mentioned, but I 
cant see that this was a concrete objective or plan for Mr P. If after age 55 he did want to 
access a higher lump than his money purchase pension could provide, he still could have 
decided to transfer his DB2 pension then. 
It was recorded Mr P wanted the ability to leave potentially superior death benefits to his 
family including the provision of a capital sum or drawdown arrangement. Death benefits are 
an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like their loved ones to be 
taken care of when they die. So the thought of leaving a large sum to his family when he 
died might sounded more attractive than the DB scheme where his wife would receive a 
reduced pension.
However, in the DB schemes Mr Ps wife would have received a guaranteed spouses 
pension for life which would have been valuable if Mr P predeceased her. At least for the 
BSPS scheme Im also aware that dependants pensions would have been available too. In 
addition Mr P had a generous death in service life cover and a life insurance policy which 
covered considerably more than the outstanding mortgage. His money purchase pension could have also been left as a lump sum to his children. In comparison, if Mr P lived a long 
life -and there was no reason to believe he wouldnt- there might not have been a large or 
any sum to leave to beneficiaries from the SIPP. 
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Mr P was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr P would 
receive his required income over a long period of time.
Overall, I cant see that flexibility or death benefits were sufficient reasons in Mr Ps 
circumstances to risk being worse off in retirement.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr P was concerned about his BSPS pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were 
transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr P was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
BRGs obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interest. Mr P was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. He was worried 
he could lose some of his pension. However, as the figures above show, even if this 
happened, Mr P was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was 
properly explained to him or BRG did enough to alleviate these concerns.
Time to choose
In September 2017, Mr P had the choice to move to the PPF or transfer to BSPS2. 
I carefully considered what Mr P likely would have done if he had been previously 
recommended to remain in BSPS. And on balance I think he would have opted to move to 
BSPS2. I say this because BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Ps initial pension 
entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of his benefits would have had potentially higher 
increases in BSPS2. Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Ps 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement. So it was likely to be higher than in the PPF. 
Early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were more favourable under the PPF. However, Mr P didnt have plans to retire 
early and I think higher income overall as well as a higher spouses pension would have 
been more important to him than a potentially larger tax-free cash sum. 
summary
I dont doubt that flexibility, control and lump sum death benefits would have sounded like 
attractive features. But the advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and 
recommend what was in his best interest.
For the reasons mentioned above, I think BRG should have recommended Mr P to stay a 
member of both DB2 and BSPS and not transfer his benefits. And if they had done so and 
explained their reasons properly why Mr P would be better off keeping his deferred benefits, 
I think Mr P likely would have followed their advice. 
I acknowledge that Mr P was also advised by Fiducia and was in contact with JM. And they 
might have influenced his decision too. However I think a properly reasoned 
recommendation from BRG, in their role as DB pension transfer specialists, alleviating some of his fears about the PPF and explaining why a transfer wasnt in his best interest, more 
likely than not would have persuaded him to follow their advice. 
Ive considered that both Fiducia and the DFM were also regulated parties, had their own 
regulatory obligations and possibly have contributed to Mr Ps losses. However, I can only 
consider the complaint in front of me which is against BRG and I think its fair in the 
circumstances that they compensate him for his losses in full. I say this because, as 
explained above, without BRGs unsuitable advice Mr P likely would have remained in his 
DB schemes and wouldnt have ended up in a SIPP or DFM. Consequently, he wouldnt 
have been exposed to any risky investments as he has been.
It follows in my view that the losses Mr P suffered in his SIPP could have been fully avoided 
if BRG had given suitable advice and so I consider it fair and reasonable that they should 
compensate him for any losses he suffered by transferring out of his secure DB schemes.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of DB2 and BSPS. Subsequently, he would have likely 
moved from BSPS to BSPS2 when he was given the choice in late 2017. So for the BSPS 
calculation, BSPS2 benefits should be used as the comparator.
BRG must undertake redress calculations for both DB schemes in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculations demonstrate a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
I understand Mr Ps SIPP includes illiquid investments, meaning they cant be readily sold on 
the open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value. To calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investments. 
If BRG is unable to buy the investments, they should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include 
anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the 
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to them for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr P wish to move his investment portfolio) and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by BRG taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr P can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BRG pay Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
In addition BRG should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date
BRG receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance  
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman