DRN-3032082
The complaint
Ms P and Mr P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) paid a claim to 
a third party. Ms P and Mr P think the claim is fraudulent. 
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Ms P and Mr P hold a motor insurance policy with RSA. This policy provides them with 
insurance while using a rental car.
Mr P hired a car from a rental company. He didnt take out insurance with the rental 
company, so RSA insured him while driving the rental car under his policy with it.
The rental company said Mr P damaged the car while it was in his care and submitted a 
claim to RSA. RSA initially didnt deal with the claim, so the rental company turned to Mr P to 
recover its costs. RSA eventually settled the claim and paid the rental company.
Ms P and Mr P complained to RSA. Mr P said he didnt cause damage to the rental car. He 
said he was forced to sign the form outlining the damage. He said if he didnt sign it the 
rental company would have refused to take the car back and charged him for keeping the 
car.
RSA maintained it was acting fairly and in line with Ms P and Mr Ps policy when paying this 
claim. It said it should have dealt with the claim earlier, and that if it had, the rental company 
wouldnt have pursued Mr P for the costs directly. It offered to waive the £100 excess as 
compensation.
Ms P and Mr P disagreed and brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked int it and didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought RSA 
had dealt with the claim in line with Ms P and Mr Ps policy.
Ms P and Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the case has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its important to note the decision relates to whether or not RSA treated Ms P and Mr P fairly 
by settling the rental companys claim on their policy. It doesnt concern any dispute Ms P 
and Mr P may have with the rental company.
RSA has a duty to deal with any claim made against its insured, in this case, Ms P and Mr P. 
Ms P and Mr Ps policy says RSA may defend or settle a claim in their name. So, this 
means ultimately, its RSAs decision whether it pays any claim made on the policy. This isnt 
an unusual term, and its one we consider fair.
Naturally, this means RSA may make a decision Ms P and Mr P dont agree with. So, in 
considering whether or not RSA settled this claim fairly, Ive looked at whether its decision is 
based on the available evidence. And Im satisfied it is.
The rental company provided RSA with two reports. The first report was from when Mr P 
took care of the car. The report details no damage. The second report is from when Mr P 
handed the car back. This report shows damage. And the damage on this report 
corresponds to the damage the rental company claimed for.
I understand Mr P disputes the content of that report and the circumstances in which it was 
signed, but that dispute lies with the rental company, not RSA. Im satisfied RSA was entitled 
to rely on the findings of that report, and that report indicates the damage to the rental car 
was caused while in Mr Ps care. So, based on this, Im satisfied RSAs decision to pay the 
claim was fair, based on the evidence it received
RSA should have dealt with the claim when it received it. Had it done so, its unlikely Mr P 
would have been chased for the costs directly. But Im satisfied the £100 offer of 
compensation in recognition of this was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman