DRN-2537731
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc voided his Goods Carrying Vehicle Insurance
policy and is trying to recover from him what it paid to a third party, following a collision
involving his son.
What happened
Mr L took out a commercial motor insurance policy with AXA on a van in August 2015. In
July 2016 Mr Ls son was driving the van when it was involved in a collision with another
vehicle. Mr Ls son says the third party rolled back into the van while he was stationary at a
junction, the third party says Mr Ls son drove into the back of his car.
The third partys insurers produced a recording of Mr Ls son, which they said showed him
admitting hed hit the third party, and a damage report that showed the third partys back
bumper would need to be replaced. The third party also alleged the collision had resulted in
whiplash and back problems requiring physiotherapy  and a medical assessment was
provided to support those claims.
AXA interviewed Mr Ls son in September 2016 about the incident. In his statement Mr Ls
son referred to the van as his, and having driven it for many years. Mr Ls son added that
when he was recorded saying I admit I hit you he was only confirming their vehicles came
into contact, not that he had driven into the third party. The field agent also reported being
told that, due to a prior driving conviction, the policy was taken out in Mr Ls name to reduce
the premium.
Mr L provided a statement in June 2017, and his son was interviewed again. Mr L said he
hadnt worked for a couple of years but was the main driver and registered keeper of the
van. He said hed bought the van so he could drive his son to work. Mr L also said he knew
about his sons driving ban, but thought that once it had expired hed be able to drive the van
 as the policy covered any driver over thirty years old.
In his second statement Mr Ls son said his father was the main driver  and that he only
used the van now and again. He said his driving ban had initially been three years from May
2013, but was reduced by nine months following attendance of an awareness course. Mr Ls
son added that the policy in his fathers name had already been set up by the time he
passed his driving test.
In August 2017 AXA sent Mr L notice that it would be avoiding the policy back to August
2015. Based on the conflicting statements, it believed the information provided at inception
about the true owner of the vehicle and the main drivers prior convictions wasnt correct.
AXA argued that had Mr L fairly presented the risk it wouldnt have offered cover, so it was
entitled to avoid the policy. It also put Mr L on notice that it would seek to recover from him
any amount paid out to the third party as a result of its obligations under the Road Traffic Act
1988 (RTA).
The matter of liability went to county court in 2018 and was settled by consent order  with
Mr Ls sons fault in the accident accepted by AXA, who paid the third partys damages and
costs. In 2019 AXA sent a pre-action letter to Mr L to set out the amount it sought from him
under the right of recovery terms in the policy. Mr L raised a complaint and said hed taken
out the policy in good faith with no intent to deceive the insurer. He told AXA that his son had
boasted about owning and driving the van in his original statement when that hadnt been
the case. Mr L added that he thought the third partys claim was fraudulent, due to the minor
impact involved, and complained that AXA should have challenged the high costs being
claimed.
AXA responded in June 2019 and said it had consulted with its solicitors prior to paying the
third partys claim, and they didnt consider liability could be defended based on the
admission by Mr Ls son. AXA had also asked an engineer to review the damage report from
the third party, and the engineer agreed the damage was consistent with the claim being
made. AXA said it had taken Mr Ls concerns about the validity of the claim seriously, but
didnt feel able to dispute the amounts based on the evidence presented. Doing so would
have risked incurring further court costs, that would in turn have been passed on to Mr L.
AXA also reiterated its stance on voiding the policy.
Mr L wasnt happy with AXAs response, and so referred the complaint to our service for
review. An investigator here thought that AXA had acted fairly in voiding the policy. Based on
the statements, the investigator said the policy should have been in Mr Ls sons name  and
that the misrepresentation had been reckless. In response to the view, Mr L reiterated (via a
representative) that:
Mr L didnt fraudulently obtain insurance for his son to drive the vehicle, and honestly
believed the policy covered anyone over thirty to drive the vehicle. He did not realise
that the insurance would be invalid if the driver had a prior driving ban.
Mr Ls son strongly disputes he was at fault in the accident, and also questions the
personal injuries claimed by the third party (due to how light the impact was).
The damages paid to the third party were excessive.
Mr L is unsure why AXA paid the claim if the insurance policy was invalid.
As there had already been legal action involving his son, Mr L wasnt sure why he
was being pursued for further damages.
The court judgement in 2018 was for the sum of £2,805  but AXA paid out
£11,300.31 after it had already voided the policy. Mr L says hes asked AXAs
solicitors to explain how it came to this total, but they cant explain.
Mr Ls son didnt have a driving licence until a few months before the accident.
The policy was obtained via a broker  which was the same one Mr L had used for
years.
Had Mr Ls son known there may be a problem with the insurance he would not have
readily given the third party their insurance details.
It took AXA almost a year to decide it was going to void the policy, based on Mr Ls
sons statement.
AXA hasnt refunded the policy premium, despite saying it would in the notice of
voidance.As Mr L didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a decision 
on the matter. I issued a provisional decision not upholding the complaint  and Ive copied 
the part of that decision explaining my rationale below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I consider AXA acted
fairly in voiding the policy, and Im not requiring the insurer to take any further action to put
right the complaint. I appreciate this will come as disappointment to Mr L, but Ive explained
my reasoning below.
Mr Ls policy with AXA was a commercial one, taken out in August 2015  prior to the
Insurance Act coming into force in 2016. That means the Marine Insurance Act 1906 was the
relevant law at inception. It placed a duty of utmost good faith on both parties  and meant
Mr L was required to disclose every circumstance he knew, or should have known, would
influence AXAs decision on whether to offer the policy and on what terms.
The policy was taken out through a broker, and the Statement of Fact submitted to AXA at
inception has a section that asks whether Mr L or anyone who may drive the vehicle had
ever been convicted of a motoring offence or had a fixed imposed penalty imposed within
the past five years. Mr Ls own speeding offence was noted, but his sons driving offence
wasnt recorded in that section or otherwise declared. In his witness statement Mr L said he
was aware of his sons ban  so the first thing for me to decide is whether he ought to have
declared that to AXA. That involves considering whether Mr L would reasonably have
believed at inception his son may drive the vehicle during the period of cover.
Mr Ls sons driving ban came to an end around the same time as the policy was incepted.
The policy was also a commercial one, to insure the van for business use  and Mr Ls
statement indicates hed stopped working just before the cover in question started. So while
its been argued that Mr Ls son hadnt passed his test by the time of inception (meaning the
policy couldnt have been taken out in his name), I still think Mr L ought to have declared his
sons motoring offence to AXA on the Statement of Fact  as I consider he was likely to be
someone who may have driven the vehicle during the period of cover. By not disclosing the
ban to AXA I consider Mr L breached the duty imposed on him by the Marine Insurance Act
1906. Mr L has told us they wouldnt have exchanged insurance details had they known
there might be a problem with the cover  but the injuries claimed by the third party meant
that exchange was a legal requirement.
AXA has shown that cover wouldnt have been offered if it had known Mr Ls son may drive
the van  and Im satisfied the relevant law allowed the insurer to avoid the policy in those
circumstances. Mr L says he made a genuine mistake  and AXA has accepted that. The
insurer said in its notice of voidance that it didnt consider the non-disclosure of Mr Ls sons
motoring offence deliberate or reckless  and so Mr L was offered a refund of premiums. I
think thats fair  as, on balance, it seems Mr L misunderstood who would be covered to
drive the van, based on it saying and any other driver on his certificate of insurance. But I
also think its clear from the relevant section on the Statement of Fact that AXA wanted to
know about the motoring offences of anyone who Mr L knew may drive the vehicle  and
that didnt happen here. So I find the insurers decision to avoid the policy back to inception,
but refund the premium, reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr L has mentioned that he took out the insurance through a broker. If he believes he did
disclose his sons ban to his broker, and that information wasnt passed on, or the broker
ought to have otherwise realised it was something that should be disclosed to AXA, then Mr
L would need to complain to his broker about that in the first instance. Ive also considered
Mr Ls comments concerning the length of time between the first statement taken from his
son and the decision to avoid the policy. I appreciate that just under a year was a long timeto wait before finding out there was a problem  but Ive reviewed the timeline and found no
avoidable delays caused by AXA. Unfortunately, where there is a dispute over liability and a
personal injury claim, things can take a long time  particularly if there is legal action, as
there was here.
Though AXA avoided Mr Ls policy back to inception, the RTA required that AXA would still
be liable to pay the third partys claim if the driver of the vehicle it had insured at the time of
the incident was shown to be at fault. Mr L and his son have both maintained that AXA ought
to have defended liability in the accident, and have raised concerns about the validity of the
third partys claim. AXA took advice on the issue of liability, and its solicitors thought the
prospects of defending the claim were low given the recorded admission. Though I
appreciate it wasnt Mr Ls sons intention to admit liability, I also consider thats the effect of
the video recording provided by the third party. So I think AXA acted reasonably by
accepting liability in the matter, as choosing to defend it would have likely incurred additional
court costs that would have been passed onto Mr L.
Having reviewed the correspondence between AXA and its solicitors, Im also satisfied the
insurer took Mr Ls concerns about the amounts claimed seriously. But given the third party
provided both damage and medical reports to evidence the amounts, I think the insurer
acted reasonably by deciding not to challenge them in court. As with liability, to do so would
have incurred additional and unnecessary court costs that would have been passed onto Mr
L. When AXA reviewed Mr Ls complaint it decided to remove some of its solicitors costs
from the total it was seeking to recover from him, as well as a portion of the hire costs the
insurer considered it had overpaid. It did this because it deemed the appointing of the
solicitors to try and dispute the third partys costs was unnecessary, given the strength of the
evidence it had been sent to support them. I find that AXA has acted fairly in doing so
(though the insurer made a mistake in the calculations set out in the final response, which
Ive addressed later in this decision). Ive reviewed the other costs that form the total balance
owed and found them to be fairly calculated  and can see theyve been broken down in
letters sent to Mr L by AXAs solicitors.
AXA has said that as Mr L breached his duty, by not declaring his sons motoring offences,
its terms allow it to recover from him the outlay to the third party. As explained earlier in this
decision, Ive agreed that duty was breached through the non-disclosure of that material
circumstance. Looking at the terms of the policy, under the section called Our right of
recovery, it says We have the right to recover any payments we make from you if, under
the law of any country in which you are covered by this policy, we have to pay a claim or
make a payment which we would not normally have to pay under the laws of England and
Wales. In this case AXA was required to pay the third partys claim under the RTA. Given it
(I believe fairly) avoided the policy, the insurer wouldnt have otherwise had to pay out, but
for its requirements under the Act. The RTA also stipulates that the insurer has the right to
recoup payment from either the uninsured person who created the liability (Mr Ls son) or the
insured person who caused or permitted the use of the vehicle which gave rise to the liability
(Mr L). So I consider AXA has acted reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and
provisions of the RTA, by seeking to recover from Mr L what it paid to the third party.
Mr L says he hasnt received his premium refund yet. But considering the amount owed to
AXA as a result of the claim, I consider it would be fair for the insurer to take the refund
amount off of the overall total its seeking from Mr L. AXA in its final response also offered to
reduce the balance owed by £1,570.40 in overpaid hire costs, plus £2,964 in refunded
solicitors fees (a reduction of £4,534.40, rather than the £4,264.40 stated in its letter). That
would mean AXA, to my mind, can fairly recover from Mr L the total outlay of £11,300.31,
less £4,534.40 and less the premium refund. I would ask that AXA now makes that
calculation, so Mr L is aware of the total amount the insurer is seeking from him.Mr L, via his representative, responded to say he was still disputing the costs and the 
amount of time AXA took to void the policy. In summary, he said:
AXA were made aware soon after the accident that Mr Ls son had a prior motor 
conviction, which he hadnt tried to hide as he thought he was covered. Its 
unacceptable that AXA continued to accept this claim and pay out on it, and took a 
year to avoid the policy.
Mr L feels AXA should accept some financial loss for the error on the insurers part in 
not avoiding the policy sooner. Had that happened then Mr L could have undertaken 
his own investigation and defended the third partys claim. Instead he was denied this 
opportunity.
There is a county court judgement against Mr Ls son, so the total AXA is seeking to 
recover from Mr L should be reduced by that amount too.
AXA didnt respond by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Ls response to my provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. I appreciate what hes said about the time period between the accident and the 
voidance of the policy  but Ive reviewed what work was done by AXA in that time and 
havent found any avoidable delays on the insurers part. Mr L has alleged this caused him a 
loss, but I disagree  he didnt know during that year that the policy would be voided, so 
there was no impact on him for that period. There would have been some frustration when 
he was eventually told, but I consider the decision to void the policy was fair in the 
circumstances. So he was always going to experience that frustration and disappointment, 
whether he found out in 2016 or 2017, and AXA arent at fault in that. 
I dont agree that Mr L lost the opportunity to conduct his own investigation. He found out in 
2017 he would be held liable for AXAs outlay in the matter once the policy was voided, and 
the matter didnt go to court until 2018. But irrespective of that, I reviewed the evidence 
submitted by the third party and found that AXA acted fairly and reasonably in deciding it 
couldnt likely defend liability or the costs claimed. AXA spent money on engaging solicitors 
to defend it, but has refunded that cost as, on reflection, the insurer doesnt think that was a 
prudent expense  given the strength of the third partys evidence. Theres a video recording 
of Mr Ls son admitting he hit the third party, so there was a strong likelihood that liability in 
the accident would be decided against him. Theres also an engineers and a medical report 
supporting the other costs claimed by the third party. I havent seen anything that persuades 
me Mr L would have been able to defend the claim more successfully.
I also appreciate what Mr L has said about not trying to hide the conviction, and genuinely 
thinking his son would be covered. To reflect that, the non-disclosure hasnt been classed as 
deliberate or reckless  and the insurer offered him his premiums back. But the Statement of 
Fact has a clear section asking Mr L to outline the convictions of anyone who may drive the 
van during the period of cover. I consider his son was likely to drive the vehicle, so his 
conviction should have been declared. Not doing so meant AXA offered insurance when it 
otherwise wouldnt have, had it been told about all the material circumstances important to 
that decision. AXA, despite the policy being voided, were still liable to pay the third partys claim due to the 
provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1988. That Act, and the policy terms, then allowed AXA to 
recover its outlay from whoever gave rise to the insurers liability (Mr L in this case, through 
permitting his son to drive the van). The county court judgement was also issued against 
AXA, who paid the amount to the third party  avoiding any further costs that could have 
arisen from a delay in making that payment. And, as explained above, AXA can fairly 
recover its outlay from Mr L  which includes the amount paid under that judgement.
I have previously set out the calculation for the total AXA can fairly recover from Mr L, and 
we have asked the insurer to contact Mr L to confirm the figure it is seeking. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman