DRN-4154793
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly 
when it approved his credit card application and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In June 2017 Mr R applied for a credit card with Tesco Bank. In his application, Mr R said he 
was a tenant and employed with an income of £32,777 a year. Tesco Bank carried out a 
credit search and found Mr R had around £6,600 in unsecured credit in his name. There was 
no evidence of any adverse information or missed payments on Mr Rs credit file. Tesco 
Bank says it applied its lending criteria and approved a credit card with a limit of £250. 
Mr R used the credit card and in December 2017 Tesco Bank increased the credit limit to 
£600. The credit limit was increased to £900 in August 2018.Tesco Bank says that each time 
it increased Mr Rs credit limit it checked his credit file and looked at his account history. 
Tesco Bank says the credit limit increases were approved in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr R has told us that the cost of maintaining his credit became too much and in 2019 he 
entered into a debt management plan (DMP). That resulted in the Tesco Bank credit card 
being closed at default in April 2019. Mr R has maintained payments to the credit card via 
his DMP since. 
Last year, Mr R complained that Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card and later increased the credit limit. Tesco Bank issued a final response but didnt 
agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs case and upheld it in part. Whilst they didnt 
think Tesco Bank had acted unfairly by approving the application and later increasing the 
credit limit to £600, the investigator thought Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved the credit limit increase to £900 in August 2018. Tesco Bank didnt agree with the 
investigators view so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Tesco Bank has provided the information it used when it assessed Mr Rs original 
application. I can see Mr R declared an income of £32,777 and Tesco Bank used a net 
monthly figure of £2,200. Tesco Bank applied estimated figure to take Mr Rs expenditure on 
rent and day to day living costs to the application and found that his disposable income 
showed a credit card with a limit of £250 was affordable. Ive taken the information available 
into account and Im satisfied Tesco Bank did complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing Mr Rs credit card application. I havent been persuaded that Tesco 
Bank lent irresponsible at this point. 
In December 2017 Tesco Bank increased the credit limit to £600. Tesco Bank completed a 
credit check and found Mr Rs unsecured credit had increased from £6,600 to £21,500. Mr 
Rs credit file shows he took a loan which is why his outstanding balances increased. Tesco 
Bank says there was no new adverse credit recorded and that the credit limit was approved 
in line with its lending criteria. I think its fair to say that the level of increase was reasonably 
modest and Mr Rs use of his credit card shows he was making more than the minimum 
payment in some months. Whilst I note Mr R had taken out a large loan after the original 
application was approved, I think the decision to proceed with the credit limit increase using 
the information available was reasonable in the circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied Tesco 
Bank did complete proportionate checks before increasing Mr Rs credit limit to £600. I 
havent been persuaded Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly. 
Tesco Bank increased Mr Rs credit limit to £900 in August 2018. By this point, the 
information included in Mr Rs application was around 20 months old. Mr Rs credit file also 
painted a different picture to when he applied as he had secured another loan, this time for 
around £10,000. Tesco Banks case file shows it was aware Mr R owed around £34,000 at 
the point it increased his credit limit in August 2018 but says the income figure it used 
showed the increase was affordable. Tesco Bank has told us it used bureau data and 
obtained an estimated net monthly income figure of £4,589 to base its lending decision. 
Whilst I understand Tesco Bank used bureau data to reach a net monthly income figure, I 
think the increase in Mr Rs unsecured borrowing shouldve caused it to consider completing 
more comprehensive checks. There are a range of options that were open to Tesco Bank 
like asking for copies of Mr Rs bank statements or requesting evidence of his income by 
way of payslips or other documents. 
In order to see what Tesco Bank wouldve found if it had carried out better checks we 
recently asked Mr R for copies of his bank statements. But due to the passage of time, Mr 
Rs explained they are no longer available. We also asked Mr R to provide documents from 
a debt management service he used in 2019 but it wasnt available either. Mr R did give us 
some further information about his income and circumstances both at the time Tesco Bank 
was lending and the years that followed. Id like to thank Mr R for giving us more information 
about his circumstances. I can see Mr R has been through a particularly difficult time and 
that his circumstances have been impacted by his health. Id like to assure Mr R Ive read 
and considered everything hes said. 
In response to the investigator Mr R explained that he was working in 2018 but wasnt in a 
permanent position. Whilst Mr R has confirmed he was earning at the time, hes also 
explained that due to mental health problems he was borrowing and spending at a rate that 
wasnt sustainable. And I think its fair to note that whilst Mr R has confirmed he was 
working, he hasnt told us that his income more than doubled between June 2017 (when he 
applied) and August 2018 (when Tesco Bank approved the final credit limit increase). But 
thats the basis on which Tesco Bank approved the credit limit increase. 
Ive considered whether the information available to Tesco Bank, including the information 
on Mr Rs credit file, shouldve been sufficient to show Mr R was unlikely to be able to afford further borrowing in August 2018. I note that after Mr R opened the credit card in June 2017 
he went on to open a reasonable amount of new accounts in the months that followed. As 
Ive said above, when Mr R opened his credit card he owed around £6,600. But when Tesco 
Bank increased his credit limit to £900 in June 2018 he owed at least £34,000. In my view, 
an increase of that nature in a period of around 18 months shouldve given some indication 
that Mr R was borrowing at an unsustainable rate and that further credit would be very 
unlikely to be sustainable. In my view, Tesco Banks decision to increase Mr Rs credit limit 
to £900 was unaffordable so I agree with the investigators decision to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint from that point.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to settle as follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £600.
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr R along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after 4 August 2018 regarding this account from Mr Rs credit file.
- Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £600, Tesco Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr R for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
R has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 4 
August 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman