DRN-2752935
The complaint
Miss G complains that when she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with First Response 
Finance Ltd (FR) it didnt explain to her what a category D car was , or that  the car had been 
in an accident. And it  incorrectly put a default on her credit file. She would like 
compensation. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:-
I have listened to a phone call when Miss G discussed the finance for the car. FR 
asked Miss G if she was aware the car was a category D car. Miss G said she was. 
She didnt sound unsure nor did she ask what that meant. I accept FR didnt explain 
what a category D car was. If Miss G didnt know she could have asked but didnt. 
So, I cant agree that she wasnt aware of the cars status at the point of sale.
FR didnt tell Miss G the car had been stolen. I have seen the HPI report FR obtained 
which stated the car was category D and not reported as stolen. I dont think FR 
misled Miss G by not telling her the car had been stolen as I dont believe it had that 
information at the point of sale.
In terms of issues with the car Miss G doesnt seem to have raised these until April 
2020 some three years after she had the car. When issues arise after six months the 
onus is on the consumer to show there was a fault present or developing at the point 
of sale, but Miss G hasnt done this. I also agree with our investigator that some of 
the issues Miss G has mentioned, for example replacement brake pads and discs 
,would be wear and tear issues which in a used car should be expected. 
Miss G was also advised in the finance phone call to ensure she test drove and fully 
inspected the car before going ahead with the agreement.  I am not sure if she did 
but if so, I would have expected her to have noticed the bumper issue and raised this 
at the time, but she doesnt seem to have done this
FR has accepted it wrongly placed a default marker on Miss Gs credit file and 
offered £150 compensation which I think was reasonable. I appreciate this would 
have caused Miss G some concern, but she hasnt given us any evidence of any 
direct loss as a result of this which I could consider.
Finally, Miss G says she has never had an explanation of the charges applied when 
she voluntarily terminated her agreement. When she complained to us, she referred 
to this but in relation to the resulting default marker. From the final response letter FR 
Issued it seemed Miss G accepted a 50% reduction in the charges as a gesture of 
goodwill, her complaint seemed to have been that the outstanding payment led to the 
default issue not about the charges themselves. As our investigator has correctly 
noted Miss G doesnt seem to have specifically complained to FR about these 
charges or made it part of her complaint to us. So, I cant really comment on this 
issue as we havent investigated it. If Miss G still feels the charges, she paid were 
unfair she would need in the first instance to raise this with FR so that it can properly 
investigate this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement First Response 
Finance Ltd should pay Miss G £150 compensation for the inconvenience of placing a 
default marker on her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman