DRN-3836489
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) blocked his debit card.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr A was stranded at an airport abroad with his family. He tried to purchase 
Wi-Fi for £6.80 using his debit card. The transaction wasnt successful as First Direct had 
placed a block on Mr As card for a security check.
First Direct tried to call Mr A and left him a voicemail. They also sent him a text message to 
confirm if the transaction was genuine. Mr A didnt have a working SIM card, so he wasnt 
able to call First Direct or respond to their text message. He contacted First Direct using their 
online chat facility. 
Mr A explained he was in an emergency situation and asked First Direct not to block his 
transactions. First Direct explained that his card had been blocked for a security check. They 
asked Mr A to reply to the text message to confirm that the transaction was genuine or to call 
the security team as they couldnt assist him through the chat channel.
He explained he couldnt call First Direct as he was abroad without a working SIM card. He 
asked First Direct to let the payment for the Wi-Fi through. He also explained he needed his 
card to buy food for his family as he didnt have cash. First Direct reiterated that they couldnt 
authorise transactions via the chat facility. They explained their security team could only be 
contacted by phone. 
A few days later, Mr A contacted First Direct again via the chat facility to check if his card 
had been unblocked. He was informed that his card wouldnt be unblocked until hed spoken 
to the security team about the transaction that was stopped. 
Mr A explained his situation again and asked First Direct to help him by putting aside their 
policy. He felt that his messages confirmed that he was the customer. First Direct explained 
that they were unable to unblock his card on chat. Unhappy with this, Mr A logged a 
complaint.
First Direct explained all transactions are subject to fraud checks which cant be avoided. 
These checks happen automatically depending on certain criteria which are in place to 
protect their customers. And since a security check was required to ensure the transaction 
was authentic, their security team needed to speak to Mr A before they could unblock his 
card and he wouldnt be able to use it until he does so.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He believes his card was blocked as he was 
transacting abroad. He explained that the First Direct website says he doesnt need to inform 
them when hes going away. But when he used his card abroad, it was blocked. So, he feels 
the policy is flawed and adversely impacts customers. He also thinks that the requirement to 
call the security team is inconvenient and for him it was impossible as he didnt have a 
working SIM card. He says First Direct should be penalised for this non-customer centric 
policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said First Direct hadnt made an error in 
stopping the payment and was satisfied theyd followed their process. Mr A remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct are required to take reasonable steps to prevent their customers from financial 
crime. They might be held liable for any foreseeable losses, if they breach their duty of care. 
And to meet these obligations, First Direct use automated fraud prevention systems. These 
are common tools used by most financial institutions to protect their customers accounts.
Although the transaction Mr A attempted to make was for a fairly small amount, the fraud 
prevention system triggered it for a security check. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
First Direct to block Mr As card until they could confirm the transaction was genuine.
The very nature of security checks means the fraudulent transaction may not always be 
identified but equally genuine transactions, such as in Mr As case may be flagged as 
suspicious. This doesnt mean First Direct are at fault or that they have treated Mr A unfairly.
First Direct tried to call Mr A to verify the authenticity of the transaction and when they 
couldnt reach him, they left him a voicemail. They also sent a text message asking for a 
response with Y if the transaction was genuine or N if it wasnt. Im satisfied First Direct 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr A, in line with their process. 
If Mr A was able to respond to the text message or answered the call from First Direct, his 
card couldve been unblocked quickly. Unfortunately, Mr A didnt have a working SIM card 
but First Direct cant fairly be blamed for this. 
I appreciate Mr A wanted First Direct to unblock his card as per his request through the chat 
facility. However, First Direct arent obliged to deviate from their security procedures. First 
Direct were clear with Mr A that they couldnt unblock his card on the chat channel. They 
provided him with the telephone number to contact to restore access to his card. 
Although Mr A didnt have a working SIM card, I think there were other means in which he 
couldve called First Direct to have his card unblocked. First Direct also offered to provide 
the security team an alternative phone number for them to call Mr A on  but he didnt accept 
this suggestion.
I appreciate Mr A believes that his transaction was stopped as he was aboard. Im afraid I 
disagree. We cant know for certain why Mr As card was stopped as this information is 
commercially sensitive and sharing this information would likely compromise the fraud 
prevention process.  
A number of different factors are taken into account when a security check is triggered. And 
on balance, I dont think its likely to be solely because Mr A was abroad. This is because Mr 
As bank statement shows that hed made other successful transactions abroad in August 
2022 using his debit card.Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr A and his family experienced during their travel 
abroad. I dont underestimate the stress and inconvenience they were caused while being 
stranded at the airport for several hours. But Im satisfied First Direct havent done anything 
wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman