DRN-4528755
The complaint
In summary, Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS), trading as Halifax, 
incorrectly reported a late payment for July 2022 on her credit card, to credit reference 
agencies. She is also concerned that it refused to remove the marker after an investigation 
confirmed there hadnt been a late payment for July 2022. 
What happened
BOS responded to Miss Ws complaint in April 2023. It said a payment made in July 2022 
had been made on the due date, so it wasnt reported as a late payment. It said that a 
payment had been missed in April 2022, so it was classed as a missed payment and 
reported to the credit reference agency. So, it didnt agree to uphold her complaint. 
Miss Ws complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. They wrote to Miss W 
explaining why they didnt think BOS had done anything wrong, for essentially the same 
reasons provided by it. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her concerns. In summary, she 
explained that this was an issue of accurate reporting. She said the month selected by BOS 
didnt reflect the month it said the payment had been missed. 
The investigator reviewed Miss Ws concerns again considering her comments. He agreed 
that as there was no missed payment in July 2022 as evidenced by the card statements a 
missed payment shouldnt be reported for that month. He said BOS should remove the 
marker and pay Miss W £75 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused.
In response Miss W said she still wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
She didnt agree to her credit file being shared with BOS.  
BOS provided further explanation. It said Miss Ws April payment was due by 29/04 and 
would be classed as in arrears from her billing cycle date. It said Miss Ws account notes 
showed she had a billing cycle date change from the 4th of the month to the 19th of the 
month. 
It went on to say that due to this change her account didn't cycle until 19/05/22. It also said 
that it didnt report a customer as late until 14 days after the cycle date which took Miss W to 
02/06/22.  On working day 10 which would be the 14/06/2022 - this would have been the file 
cut-off date and the credit reference agencies would receive the file on 15/06/2022. The 
credit reference agencies check the file for data quality and the bureau would update at the 
end of June which would be when the data would then go live. It set out the timeline: 
Payment due date 29/4
Cycle date 19/5
Missed payment showing late 2/6
File cut 14/6
CRAs receive file 15/6
CRAs check for data quality errors etc. 15/6 to 22/6 
Updated at bureau end of June.
Data set to live. 
Due to the circumstances and dates involved, BOS said it didnt think this was an error when 
Miss Ws late payment was showing. It said it could understand why it may look a little odd to 
Miss W, but due to the processing time and her cycle date change it couldnt agree it was 
incorrect. 
Miss C then provided further evidence and asked that the issue of misreporting be 
considered in light of the Financial Reporting Standards and the Financial Disclosure Code. 
She said that in line with good practice there should have been a record of what information 
was disclosed to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
The investigator wrote to BOS and asked why despite the cycle change, the credit file didnt 
show a missed payment for April. In response BOS explained again the change in the cycle 
date. It said the update date for the credit file was a month out, it classed the payment as 
being late in June. So, the late payment was reported in July but in relation to Junes 
information, as it had to wait a month before it could report it. It wrote to the investigator 
again and explained that a customer didnt fall into arrears until the cycle and that was 
shown on the statement. It thought it would be fair to show the late payment marker as May 
as this was when the account was cycled. It thought that it was unfair that it reported a 
month later because of a cycle date change and its grace period.  
Another of our investigators took over the conduct of the case. They reviewed the case and 
thought that BOS offer to amend the credit file to reflect the missed payment from July 2022 
to May 2022 was reasonable. And they said it should pay Miss W £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience she had incurred.   
Miss W provided a lengthy response to the investigators view. In summary, she didnt 
dispute that there were missed payments in the previous billing cycles. She reiterated that 
her complaint concerned a late payment marker for July 2022 reported 2 days after the 
payment was made. She said that the payment for that month was made before the due 
date. She referred to a CRA report which laid out the billing cycles and said that no missed 
payments were recorded for April and May 2022, and her account was brought up to date 
prior to the issue of a late payment in July. She didnt think a missed payment from three 
months before hand was relevant to a late payment in July. She thought the BOS proposal 
to rectify the report was retaliatory. 
The second investigator had said that it was unclear to them how the missed payments 
came to appear as a late payment for July. Miss W reiterated that the complaint concerned 
what BOS had reported to the CRA. She didnt agree that the billing cycle date automatically 
affected the day a missed payment was reported to the CRA. She questioned the rationale 
of the investigators assessments. 
Miss W wrote to the investigator again explaining why she didnt agree with the explanation 
provided by BOS. In summary she said that even taking into account what it had said, the 
cut-off point was out of date and outside of the late payment in July. She also told the 
investigator that she had made a data subject access request (DSAR) to BOS and a CRA. 
She thought the information that would be provided would be relevant to the complaint. She 
subsequently provided information she had received through her DSAR, which showed one 
payment in arrears for June 2022.
The case was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
intending to uphold Miss Ws complaint. In response, Miss W accepted my decision. BOS 
didnt. In summary it said:It had agreed previously to remove the late payment marker from July 2022 and 
move it to May 2022, as if there hadnt of been a cycle change, this was when it 
would have shown. It also said Miss W had confirmed she didnt dispute that there 
were missed payments in the previous billing cycles. As Miss W did make a late 
payment, it said it must record correct and factual information to the CRA. So, it 
would not be removing the late payment marker altogether.
It noted a credit report Miss W received from a DSAR showed a late payment from 
June 2022 also. It said it had explained previously Julys 2022 credit report would 
have shown Junes 2022 data. It attached the full email that was sent.
It said there was only one late payment marker showing for 2022. It attached an 
email which it sent on the 27 September 2023, which it said explained and showed 
the late payment markers showing on Miss Ws account. It also said the screen shot 
it provided was from the email sent on the 27 September 2023, which clearly showed 
only one missed payment in 2022 and 2 more recent missed payments in 2023.
The late payment marker had never been moved from July 2022 to May 2022 as 
Miss W had never agreed to this.
It had previously agreed to pay Miss W £100 for distress and inconvenience she had 
incurred (D&I), which it felt was fair and reasonable. It noted I said it should pay £350 
and asked how I had arrived at this figure. Given that there were other late payments 
on Miss Ws file, it said she would still be affected by them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern or submission 
Miss W or BOS have raised. I dont intend to offend Miss W or BOS by not doing so or mean 
any disrespect in taking this approach. This reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues and information I think I need to consider, in 
deciding on whether BOS did anything wrong. 
The crux of Miss Ws complaint is that BOS incorrectly applied a missed payment marker on 
her credit file for July 2022. She says that she didnt miss a payment that month and that the 
marker applied by BOS is incorrect, irrespective of what it says about any missed payments 
in previous months. 
So, in the first instance, Ive considered what happened in and around July 2022.  The 
statement dated 19 June 2022 states that a minimum payment of £44.35 need to reach 
Miss Ws account by 14 July 2022. 
The statement dated 19 July 2022, states that a minimum payment of £42.15 had to reach 
Miss Ws account by 15 August 2022. It also records that a payment of £45 was entered 
onto Miss Ws account on 14 July 2022. The statement dated 21 August 2022 records that a 
payment of £45 was received on 13 August and entered onto the account on 15 August 
2022. Im satisfied from this information that Miss W paid the contractual payments for June 
and July 2022. 
As Ive summarised above, BOS has explained how it reported a missed payment it says 
was made in April 2022 to CRAs. However, I find it difficult to reconcile that a payment it 
says was missed in April 2022 is reported as a missed payment for July 2022. BOS has in essence, said that changes to Miss Ws billing cycle resulted in the missed 
payment being reported in July. But I think in the circumstances of this particular case, the 
missed payment it has reported for July is clearly incorrect. And from the credit report 
provided to Miss W through her DSAR, that report shows a missing payment for June 2022 
which is also incorrect.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is the relevant organisation set up to deal with 
customers personal information. 
In July 2016 it updated a paper called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document set out the principles that 
lenders such as BOS should adhere to when reporting information to credit reference 
agencies. 
I think that Principle 1 is relevant to the July 2022 missed payment marker. This says that 
data that is reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent and up to date. I dont 
think what BOS has done in Miss Ws case is in line with this principle. I say that because as 
Ive explained above, Miss Ws credit card statements show that the marker applied for July 
isnt an accurate record, as no payment was missed in June or July 2022. And BOS itself 
has accepted in its e-mail to the investigator of 9 August 2023, that it seemed unfair that it 
reported the missed payment a month later because of a cycle date change and its grace 
period. So, I agree with BOS that it hasnt treated Miss W fairly in the way it has reported this 
marker, and as Ive explained, I think it should have taken steps to rectify her credit record 
by removing the inaccurate record. 
BOS has argued and it has repeated that argument again in its response to my provisional 
decision; that although the credit marker may have been reported a month later than it 
should have been, there should still be a missed payment marker added to Miss Ws credit 
file. But as Ive said, BOS hasnt amended Miss Ws credit file and as Ive explained I think it 
should have ensured that Miss Ws credit file was accurate. I dont think it needed Miss Ws 
agreement to ensure it accurately reported information to credit reference agencies. And the 
complaint that Miss W has made is about the accuracy and fairness of the marker that it did 
report to CRAs, which showed her as having a missed payment in July 2022. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I cant consider a complaint that hasnt been made and 
which is about something that hasnt yet happened. For the avoidance of any doubt, I am not 
making any findings on - or commenting on - the appropriateness of BOS changing the 
missed payment marker to another month. That would be a matter for it to decide if it 
considers that is what it needs to do. If it does that, and if Miss W disagrees with any steps 
that it takes; then it would be open to her to raise those concerns with BOS in the first 
instance. And she could refer those concerns to this service if she couldnt resolve them 
directly with BOS.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I remain of the opinion that BOS hasnt acted fairly in 
applying a late payment marker to Miss Ws credit file for July 2022. It has said that in its 
response to my provisional decision that there was only one late credit marker for 2022, 
which was in July. However, I can see that the credit report provided by Miss W, shows a 
late payment marker for June 2022. So, BOS needs to take the appropriate steps with the 
CRAs to have any late payment markers that show late payments for June and July 2022, 
removed from Miss Ws credit file. 
In addition, it should pay Miss W compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
incurred as a result of the inaccurate marker being applied to her credit file. Deciding on an appropriate sum to compensate for distress and inconvenience is not an exact science. I can 
only consider the impact on Miss W of BOS actions. And I dont have the power to make 
any punitive awards against a business such as BOS. BOS doesnt agree with the figure I 
set out in my provisional decision, and it said it doesnt understand how I reached that figure. 
It thinks is offer of £100 is sufficient compensation. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the inaccurate marker has remained on Miss Ws 
credit file for over a year. And Im satisfied from everything that I have been provided with, 
that this marker being applied has had quite some impact on Miss W. She has not only had 
the inconvenience and upset of having the incorrect credit marker on her file; but has also 
had the inconvenience of trying to persuade BOS to remove the incorrect late payment 
marker, which it wouldnt do. As a result, I dont think the £100 BOS offered to pay her 
adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to her as a result of BOS 
mistake. And that is why I think BOS should pay Miss W £350, which I believe is a more 
appropriate sum to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she has incurred as 
a result of its mistake. 
BOS said in response to my provisional decision that there were other late payment markers 
on Miss Ws credit file. In my provisional decision, I said I had noted that in one of her 
responses to one of our investigators views, Miss W didnt dispute that there were missed 
payments in the previous billing cycles. And Ive not seen any evidence that Miss W has 
suffered any direct financial loss as a result of the inaccurate missed payment marker being 
applied to her credit file. So, Im not persuaded that she has suffered any direct financial 
loss. But for the reasons I have set out above, I do think she has suffered distress and 
inconvenience which warrants a compensatory award of £350. 
My final decision
My decision is to uphold Miss Ws complaint. If Miss W accepts my decision, Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Miss W £350. And it should amend her credit file as I have set out 
in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman