DRN-4069715
The complaint
Mr T complains that PayrNet, trading as Pockit, restricted access to his account and 
returned his funds to source. 
What happened
Mr T had an account with Pockit. 
On 24 March 2022 Pockit restricted access to his account. 
On 30 March 2022 Mr T contacted our service to complain. As Pockit were yet to respond to 
his complaint, our service referred the complaint on  however Pockit didnt reply or issue a 
final response letter.
Mr T explained that hed managed to redirect his future benefits to another account, however 
him and his family were struggling financially due to not having access to the funds. 
One of our investigators was assigned Mr Ts complaint. They contacted Pockit and the 
business explained that the funds, totalling £313.64, were returned to the department of 
work and pensions (DWP) on 7 June 2022. And Mr Ts account was closed on the same 
date. Our investigator asked Pockit why Mr Ts funds werent returned to source sooner. 
Pockit advised that they had internal processing delays. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. She thought Pockit had acted fairly in closing 
his account without notice, but the electronic money provider shouldnt have restricted Mr Ts 
access to his benefits. And she asked Pockit to pay Mr T £100 for the inconvenience caused 
and 8% interest on the restricted funds from 30 March 2022 until he was able to access 
them in January 2023. 
Both parties accepted, with Pockit accepting on 14 February 2023  however after asking 
Mr T to provide a current bank statement to verify his details, Pockit havent responded or 
paid the redress. 
For this reason the case has been passed on to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed with the recommendation made by our investigator  but for 
completeness Ill briefly explain why I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from 
businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security 
information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Pockit has 
provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. 
Pockit are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Mr Ts access to his account was restricted on 24 March 2022. I appreciate Mr T may have 
found the restriction inconvenient but Pockit must ensure they keep their due diligence 
checks updated at all times. It follows I dont think Pockits actions in initially restricting 
Mr Ts access to his account were unfair. However, I need to consider the length of time the 
restriction was in place and the impact this had on Mr T. 
On 30 March 2022 Mr T received £313.61 in benefits into his account. Mr T had a small 
balance of £0.03 at the time, giving him a total balance of £313.64. Generally, our service 
would expect a business to give a customer access to funds which they are obviously 
entitled to  unless theres a justifiable explanation for why this didnt happen. Pockit havent 
given a satisfactory explanation for this  and therefore although they were entitled to restrict 
Mr Ts access, Mr Ts benefits should have been accessible to him from when they were 
received. However, Mr Ts funds werent returned to the DWP until June 2022. And Pockit 
didnt notify Mr T about this. Mr T was first informed that his benefits had been returned to 
DWP in December 2022 and Im satisfied its unlikely he gained access to them until 
3 January 2023. 
Putting things right
Mr T advised that he experienced inconvenience in being unable to access the benefit 
payment on 30 March 2022. Im satisfied that £100 is fair compensation for this, along with 
8% interest for the deprivation of the funds.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct PayRNet limited, trading as Pockit, to:
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Pay 8% simple interest on £313.64 from 30 March 2022 to 3 January 2023
HM Revenue & Customs may require PayRNet Limited to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. If so, PayRNet should give Mr T a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if it asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman