DRN-2046004
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc closed her accounts and wont return money held in 
them to her. Mrs E wants Santander to release the money in her accounts. 
What happened
Mrs E had two accounts with Santander.
On 17 July 2019, and 19 July 2019 two faster payments of £35,000 and £37,500 were made 
into Mrs Es current account from an account in South Korea. Santander took the view that it 
needed to look into the payments and how Mrs E was operating her accounts. The bank 
blocked all of Mrs Es accounts whilst it did that. 
On 22 July 2019, following Mrs E attempting to make a payment out of her account, 
Santander called her and asked her about the origin of the two payments which had been 
made into her account. Mrs E told the bank that she wanted to make a payment for work to 
be done on a nursing home. And she said that the money which had come into her account 
was from her brother in law and was to be used to open a nursing home in the UK. During 
the call, two other individuals came on the line and told the bank that the money was an 
inheritance Mrs E had received following the death of her brother in laws father some weeks 
previously. 
Santander wasnt satisfied with Mrs Es explanation and asked her to provide evidence that 
she was entitled to the money which had been paid into her account. And more information 
about her relationship with the senders of the payments and how she intended to use the 
money.
Whilst it waited for Mrs E to provide the information it contacted the sending bank and asked 
it to confirm Mrs E was entitled to the money. The sending bank told Santander that the 
money was to be used to pay for law advisory services, which was different to Mrs Es 
explanation about the money.
Mrs E subsequently provided the bank with a death certificate and information about the 
funeral of her brother in laws father, and a copy of a foreign currency transfer for the 
£37,500 payment. She also told that bank that although her brother in laws father had 
passed away, the money had not come from him, the sender had no relationship with the 
deceased and had actually been sent by her brother in laws business partner.
Santander reviewed all the information Mrs E provided. But werent satisfied it showed Mrs E 
was entitled to the money. Santander also decided it no longer wanted Mrs E as a customer 
and closed her accounts immediately. 
Mrs E wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our service where 
an investigator looked into it. He said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it 
reviewed Mrs Es account and asked her for information. Mrs E didnt accept the 
investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs E feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats 
shes said to us and to Santander. But whilst I appreciate Mrs Es frustration, its important to 
point out that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should 
have done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, all banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain action in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict customers accounts and ask for information about payments. Santander has said 
that Mrs Es access to her accounts was blocked and reviewed to meet these requirements. 
And having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Santander to 
act in the way that it did. So, whilst I accept this caused Mrs E inconvenience, I cant say 
Santander treated her unfairly when it blocked her accounts. 
Mrs E has said that the money going into her account was money shed received as an 
inheritance from her brother in laws father and she intended to use the money to complete 
work on a nursing home. More recently shes said that the money was from her brother in 
laws business partner who is based in South Korea. And was going to be used to buy a 
nursing home in the UK.
In support of what shes said, Mrs E has provided us and Santander a copy of what she says 
is her brother in laws fathers death certificate and evidence of his funeral. She also 
provided a copy of a South Korean bank transfer. Mrs E says this information proves shes 
entitled to the money paid into her accounts. But I dont agree. And I would make the 
following observations on what Mrs E has produced.
Mrs E has provided different explanations regarding the source of the funds. And 
hasnt provided a plausible explanation why shed receive payments from South 
Korea when her brother in laws father passed away in Nigeria
The sending bank has provided a different explanation to the one given by Mrs E for 
the intended purpose of the funds  that they were for payment of legal fees. I note 
too that the sending bank has asked Santander to return the funds.
The South Korean bank transfer receipt makes no reference to the purpose of the 
payments and the payments were made from two different South Korean accounts 
and not one as Mrs E has suggested
Mrs E hasnt provided any evidence about the reason and purpose of the payments, 
for example invoices for work, or any evidence that she has purchased, or in the 
process of purchasing a nursing home
 
It maybe that Mrs E can now provide more information about the funds paid into her account. 
But, in the circumstances I can understand why Santander wanted to know more about the 
payments.  I can understand too why it didnt consider Mrs E had adequately explained their 
source. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong when it decided not to release 
the money remaining in Mrs Es accounts to her.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mrs Es accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mrs Es accounts without notice. In my view that was reasonable, given 
the concerns the bank had about how Mrs E was operating her accounts. So, it was entitled 
to close the accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mrs E when Santander blocked and 
closed her accounts. And didnt release funds held in them. So, I realise she will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander acted inappropriately and treated Mrs 
E unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman