DRN-2432601
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) would not replace 
matching items as part of settling a claim under his home insurance policy.
Mr M is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr M.
 
What happened
Mr M broke the hand basin in his bathroom. He contacted Lloyds to make an insurance 
claim. Lloyds asked Mr M to get a quote to replace the basin. When Mr M did so, a few 
companies told him that it wasnt possible to match the new basin with the rest of the 
bathroom suite.
Lloyds then inspected the basin and said it could replace it with a white hand basin and 
spray it in the same colour as the rest of the suite. When Mr M asked for details of the 
replacement basin, Lloyds sent some examples, but Mr M didnt think the basins were of a 
similar quality to the existing one.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about how the handling of the claim. Lloyds replied and said 
matching items werent covered under the terms of the policy, so it would only repair or 
replace the damaged basin. Lloyds offered a £500 cash settlement for the damaged basin 
and £50 compensation for the delays in settling the claim.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
although the policy did cover matching set replacements that the policy said Lloyds may 
attempt to replace only the damaged item first. She thought it was reasonable that it 
attempted the basin replacement in the first instance and then, if that was unsuccessful, 
would potentially replace the whole bathroom suite.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt replace his whole bathroom suite when the basin was 
damaged. Instead, Lloyds said it would replace the basin and, as it was a non-standard 
colour, arrange for it to be painted in a matching colour. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms renewal letter for the relevant period and this said the policy included 
cover for matching items, e.g. replacing your bathroom suite even if only one part is broken 
because we cant match it.
The letter also said:
Matching of Items
If you make a successful claim under your Buildings cover for an item, or part of an item, 
which forms part of a set or any other article of a uniform nature, colour or design, we will 
pay for:
the cost of replacing or changing any associated undamaged item, or
part of an item 
when a replacement of, or reasonable match for the lost or damaged item cannot be 
obtained.
I also looked at the policy booklet. This said:
Your policy covers the cost of repairing or replacing a damaged item, but not the set it's part 
of. Some examples of what we would repair or replace are:
A broken sink, but not the undamaged matching bath or toilet
I asked Lloyds why there was a difference between Mr Ms renewal letter, which said that he 
had matching items cover, and the policy booklet, which said he didnt. Lloyds said that it 
didnt now provide matching items cover, but that due to the amount of time that Mr M had 
been insured by Lloyds, it provided matching items cover for him as an additional benefit.
I also looked at the contact between Lloyds and Mr M as part of this claim. Having done so, I 
couldnt see any evidence that Lloyds confirmed to Mr M that he had matching items cover 
or how that would work in the context of the claim. I asked Lloyds about this and it also 
reviewed what had happened and couldnt find evidence that it had discussed with Mr M that 
he had matching items cover. Lloyds also said that it wouldnt utilise matching items cover 
until it had exhausted all other avenues and, in this case, it was confident it could offer a 
suitable basin and colour match the existing suite.
Looking at what happened in this case, I agree that it would often be reasonable only to 
replace the basin in the first instance, even where there was matching items cover. I also 
think that it was potentially reasonable for Lloyds to provide a similar basin and paint it, 
particularly given that the original basin was no longer available. Im aware that Mr M wasnt 
happy about the quality of the basins offered and was concerned about whether there would 
a successful colour match, but I think that Mr M was offered a range of basins and that the 
company who would have done the colour match had checked Mr Ms suite and was 
confident that it could match the colour.
However, Ive also read reviews for the company that would have carried out the work. 
There are a lot of positive reviews, although not all of them relate to repairs similar to the 
work involved in this case. But, there are also several that say that the company was 
confident of a colour match and when the work was carried out it didnt match or that after a 
period of time the work deteriorated. So, although Lloyds was confident, I dont think it was a 
given that painting the basin would have been successful or last.
But, I think the main issue in this case is that the discussions that Lloyds had with Mr M were 
in the context of a painted basin or a cash equivalent being all that it would offer to settle the 
claim. Mr M told Lloyds on a number of occasions that he had matching items cover, but I 
havent seen any evidence that Lloyds took this on board or considered his claim with that in 
mind. In Lloyds response to Mr Ms complaint it told him he didnt have matching items 
cover and quoted the wording from the policy document, rather than Mr Ms renewal 
documents, to support this view.
Given that Mr M did have matching items cover, in my view, what Lloyds should have done 
was offer to replace the basin in the way that it did and explain that if the match was 
unsuccessful that it would then replace the whole suite. But instead Lloyds only considered the claim as if Mr M didnt have that additional cover. So, Mr M had to make a decision about 
how to proceed in the absence of a key piece of information and decided that he didnt want 
a basin installed that might or might not have matched his existing bathroom suite as full and 
final settlement of his claim. I can understand why Mr M did this. Mr M knew he had 
matching items cover but, despite Lloyds offering him this additional benefit as a 
longstanding customer, it failed to realise the level of cover available under his policy when 
deciding how to settle the claim. I dont think that was fair or reasonable.
So, I need to think about how to put things right. Mr M has replaced his whole bathroom 
suite, which he paid for himself. He said that he needed to do this as it wasnt safe for him or 
his family to continue to use the basin. This means that it isnt now possible for Lloyds to fit 
the colour matched basin and then replace the whole bathroom suite if it isnt a match. Im 
aware that Lloyds is confident that the painted basin would have been a colour match. But 
Mr M wasnt, and, as Ive already said, based on customer reviews, I also dont think it was a 
given that the colour match would be successful.
The way for Lloyds to address Mr Ms concern was to explain about how matching items 
cover worked. But Lloyds didnt do that. Instead it kept telling Mr M that he didnt have that 
cover. So, I think that the current position is a direct result of Lloyds actions and its failure to 
offer and explain the full benefits available to Mr M and the steps to achieving an appropriate 
settlement. 
As Mr M has replaced his bathroom suite, I think that Lloyds should pay for its replacement. I 
did consider whether alternative settlements would be appropriate, such as Lloyds making a 
contribution to Mr Ms new bathroom, but I dont think that would be fair on Mr M. Lloyds 
didnt explain to Mr M how matching items cover worked and how it would apply when 
settling his claim and, as a result, Mr M was being offered a full and final settlement without 
the possibility of making use of the matching items terms. There is also a realistic possibility 
that the match wouldnt have worked and that Lloyds would have paid for a new bathroom 
suite anyway, so Mr M would therefore potentially be in a worse position that he would 
otherwise would have been had Lloyds dealt with his claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy.
Even when Lloyds investigated Mr Ms complaints it failed to realise that Mr M had matching 
items cover and instead told him that it only needed to replace the basin under the terms of 
the policy. In addition, when Lloyds reviewed the case as part of providing its records to this 
service, it still maintained that it had made the correct decision on settling the claim because 
Mr M didnt have matching items cover. So, I think that Lloyds had plenty of opportunity to 
realise its mistake and correctly advise Mr M of his position but didnt do so. Mr M then 
reached a point where he felt he needed to get his bathroom replaced because of concerns 
about the safety of the basin. It isnt now possible to know whether the painted basin would 
have been a match and would have made it unnecessary to replace the whole bathroom, but 
that is down to Lloyds handling of the claim and that, over a year after it first started to deal 
with the claim, it reviewed the case again and still didnt realise that Mr M had matching 
items cover.
Im aware though that a quote provided by Mr M included the cost of removing tiles from the 
bathroom walls and the supply and fitting of new tiles. In my view, this isnt covered as part 
of the matching items terms of the policy and I wouldnt expect Lloyds to cover this cost as 
part of settling the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I intend to uphold this complaint, as I dont think that the 
way Lloyds said it would settle this claim overall was fair or reasonable. I also think that the 
claim was poorly handled because of a misunderstanding on Lloyds part about the level of 
cover that Mr M had under his policy. As a result, I intend to require Lloyds to settle the claim by refunding Mr M the cost of buying and installing a new bathroom suite, subject to him 
providing suitable evidence of those costs. I also think Lloyds should pay interest on the 
settlement it makes as Mr M has lost the use of his money. I think interest should be paid 
from the date of Mr Ms claim until the date of settlement. Im also currently of the view that 
Lloyds should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the poor handling of his claim, including its 
failure to offer to settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. To be 
clear, the £150 includes the £50 that Lloyds already offered, so is an additional £100. I 
understand that Mr M is uncertain whether he received the £50 already offered, so Lloyds 
should ensure that payment has been made.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 December 2020.
Mr M said he thought it was a fair outcome.
Lloyds reviewed the case and that said it would refund the amount paid for the bathroom and 
pay the interest and compensation. It said that it would normally replace a basin in the first 
instance, even with matching items cover. In this instance that would have been providing a 
similar basin and painting it. If the match was unsuccessful, it would have considered 
replacing the whole suite.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the comments from both parties and my provisional decision, I have no 
reason to revisit the decision that I previously made. I uphold this complaint for the reasons 
previously given.
Putting things right
As a result, Lloyds must refund Mr M the cost of buying and installing a new bathroom suite, 
pay interest on that amount as he lost use of the money from the date on which he paid for 
the work to be done, and pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the way it handled his claim. To be clear, this is £100 in addition to the £50 Lloyds 
previously offered, which it should ensure it has paid.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr M the cost of buying and installing a new bathroom suite, subject to any 
required excess being deducted and Mr M providing a suitable evidence of the costs for 
the work.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date that Mr M paid the invoice to the 
date that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited pays the money
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way it 
handled his claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman