DRN-2451451
The complaint
Mr B complains that My Pension Expert Limited (MPE) failed to provide him with sufficient 
information about changes to annuity rates during the time he was putting some pension 
benefits into payment in July and August 2019.    
What happened
Mr B held money purchase pension savings within an occupational pension scheme. He was 
separately in receipt of a final salary pension from that scheme. In March 2019 Mr B 
discussed his situation with MPE in anticipation of his retirement later that year.
MPE provided Mr B with some advice about how he could use his pension savings. That 
advice suggested that Mr B should purchase an annuity using his pension savings on his 
retirement. Mr B agreed to pay MPE a fee for that advice, and the implementation of its 
recommendations. But, since Mr B and his employer were still making contributions to the 
pension until his retirement Mr B requested that MPE take no further action until later in the 
year.
Mr B retired as planned at the end of June 2019 and asked MPE to start the implementation 
of its recommendations. It asked the administrator of Mr Bs occupational pension scheme 
for a valuation of his pension savings. However the provision of this transfer value was 
delayed whilst the administrator was awaiting the receipt of some funds into Mr Bs pension 
from another provider. But towards the end of July 2019 MPE was in a position to make a 
reasonable estimate of the likely transfer value and sought some final quotations for Mr Bs 
annuity. The best rate at that time was provided by a firm I will call A.
But it took until early September for the administrator of Mr Bs occupational pension scheme 
to transfer his pension savings to A. And in that time A wrote to MPE on a number of 
occasions to let it know that its annuity rates were being reduced and so Mr B would receive 
less than the original quotation. MPE didnt make Mr B aware of that information.
So when the annuity was finally set up, its value was lower than Mr B was expecting. Much 
of that fall was due to the delays in the transfer of the monies from the occupational scheme. 
But Mr B says that if hed been aware of the falls in the annuity rate he might have delayed 
his purchase. And MPE didnt do any further work at that time to check that A still provided 
the best annuity rate in the market. Its checks when Mr B complained in early October 
showed that another firm had better rates by that time.
Mr B has been paid some compensation by the occupational pension scheme in relation to 
the fall in the value of his annuity due to its delays in transferring the funds. But, in any case, 
that part of the problem is outside the scope of this complaint. And Mr B has also 
complained that A failed to send him the required cancellation notices after the purchase of 
his annuity. That also falls outside the scope of this complaint. 
So in this decision I will only be considering whether MPE provided Mr B with sufficient 
information about the changes in the annuity rate. And whether the advice that MPE gave to 
Mr B  to purchase his annuity from A  was appropriate.
Those aspects of Mr Bs complaint have been considered by one of our investigators. In its 
final response MPE had offered Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
by failing to update him about the annuity rate changes. But our investigator also concluded 
that he couldnt be sure that taking an annuity from A had been in the best interests of Mr B. 
MPE had failed to check whether the market rates had changed by the time the funds had 
been transferred. So he asked MPE to check what annuity rates Mr B could have received 
from other providers, and if he had lost out, to pay Mr B some compensation. But he didnt 
think that, even with better information from MPE about the annuity rate changes, Mr B 
would have delayed taking his annuity.
Mr B was unhappy with that assessment. He thought he would have waited for annuity rates 
to improve if hed been given better information by MPE. But MPE did accept our 
adjudicators findings. It noted that calculating the redress would be complicated, as it would 
need to contact each annuity provider individually to get information about the annuity rates 
available to Mr B at the time. And it thought that process could take up to two months.
Given the circumstances I think it fair that MPE has some clarity about what I require it to do 
in terms of putting things right before it undertakes a significant piece of work. So in the light 
of Mr Bs unhappiness with our investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process and if Mr B accepts this final 
decision it is legally binding on both parties.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by MPE. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Much of the substance of this complaint has already been agreed by both parties. MPE 
accepts that it didnt provide Mr B with sufficient information when the annuity rates offered 
by A were decreasing. And MPE accepts that its advice to Mr B to take his annuity from A 
might have meant he didnt receive the best available rate. I will explain later in this decision 
what MPE should do to correct those two errors.
So it seems to me that the main matter outstanding is whether Mr B would have taken the 
annuity at all, if hed been aware of the fall in the annuity rates.
That isnt an easy question to decide. Whilst I have no doubts about Mr B providing us with 
his honest assessment of the situation, his testimony is always going to be influenced by the benefit of hindsight. At the time he took his annuity it was apparent that rates were falling. 
I dont think it would have been reasonable at that time to form any opinion about whether 
those rates would continue to fall, or recover, in the short term.
I accept that Mr B says he had other pension income on which he could rely and so didnt 
need to take an annuity at that time. But the fact remains that the advice Mr B had received 
from MPE, based on their discussion of his circumstances, was to take an annuity 
immediately hed made his final contribution to the occupational pension scheme. And Mr B 
accepted that recommendation. So I think it was attractive to Mr B to put his pension savings 
into payment at that time.
The last quotation of pension income that Mr B received from MPE was in July 2019. At that 
time it indicated to him that he might receive an annual income of £4,627. But the actual 
annuity that was paid to Mr B was £4,397. So it had reduced by approximately 5%. 
I appreciate that reduction came as a shock to Mr B. And that the reduction in the annuity 
rate was actually greater, since his pension savings were ultimately a little larger than the 
estimate at the end of July. But I dont think the reduction was so great that I can safely 
agree that Mr B would have deferred taking an annuity at that time. Doing so would have 
meant he missed out on the income that would be due from the annuity, and that he carried 
the very real risk that annuity rates continued to fall and didnt recover to their previous 
levels.
So on balance, I think it likely that Mr B would have continued with his decision to take the 
annuity even if hed been told by MPE about the fall in the rate. So I dont think that MPE 
needs to do anything further in respect of this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
I havent seen anything to make me think that any delays caused by MPE contributed to 
Mr Bs annuity being delayed. From its contact notes, and email correspondence with Mr B, 
it seems to me that both Mr B and MPE were working hard, and in tandem, to encourage the 
administrator of the occupational pension scheme to transfer the funds to A. And, as I said 
earlier, the occupational pension scheme has agreed compensation with Mr B in respect of 
the delay that it caused.
I have considered the fee that Mr B paid to MPE for its advice, and the implementation of its 
recommendations. Ultimately I think MPE provided that advice, and arranged an annuity for 
him. So I dont think it reasonable for me to require MPE to refund any part of that fee to 
Mr B.
In summary, the only aspects of Mr Bs complaint that I think should be upheld are as set our 
above. I dont think that MPE provided Mr B with sufficient updates about changes to the 
annuity rate. And I cannot be sure that the annuity recommended to Mr B was the most 
suitable for his circumstances at the time it was purchased.
Putting things right
It seems to me that MPE failed to keep Mr B informed about the changes to the annuity rate 
that had been communicated to the firm by A. That resulted in the final annuity being lower 
than Mr B expected and no doubt caused him an amount of trouble and upset. I think the 
payment of £300 that MPE offered in that regard is fair and reasonable. MPE should pay that 
sum to Mr B if it hasnt already.
MPE told Mr B that the annuity provided by Aviva was the best value. But it failed to 
undertake the necessary further analysis across the market to support that advice, following 
the delays to the transfer of Mr Bs pension savings from the occupational pension scheme. 
So to correct that error MPE should do the following;Seek new quotations, based on comparative circumstances to the annuity taken by 
Mr B, from a range of other providers. MPE should consider the effective date for the 
purchase of those annuities to be 30 August 2019  the date the occupational 
pension scheme agrees the funds should have been transferred.
Compare the alternative quotations to the annuity recommended to, and purchased 
by, Mr B. If the highest alternative quotation is in excess of what Mr B received, he 
has suffered a loss and MPE should pay him compensation. MPE should provide full 
details of its analysis to Mr B.
Any compensation due should be in the form of an additional annuity to provide an 
income to Mr B equivalent to the difference in the two quotations. Or, if Mr B agrees, 
MPE could choose to offer to pay him a lump sum to represent the value of those 
benefits over his lifetime.
Where income has been underpaid that was due before the calculation is completed, 
MPE should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each payment, from 
the date it would have been paid, to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires MPE to take off tax from this interest. MPE must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I said earlier, MPE has indicated that the completion of this analysis might take up to two 
months. Should MPE find that the analysis is likely to take longer it should ensure that it 
provides Mr B with regular updates, and revised completion dates, at the earliest 
opportunity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct My Pension Expert 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman