DRN-3622548
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Mr H is represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
In March 2010 Mr and Mrs H purchased points from a timeshare company I will call D. This 
cost £8,400 and was funded by a loan from BPF in Mr Hs name. The loan was repaid on 14 
September 2010.
Additional points were purchased December 2012 at a cost of £8,150 funded in part by a 
credit card payment and the balance with a loan from BPF in Mr Hs name. The loan was 
repaid on 11 August 2013. Although the purchases were made by Mr and Mrs H jointly the 
complaints are made by Mr H alone since only he entered into agreements with BPF. In this 
decision, for simplicity, I will refer to Mr H as the purchaser.
According to D Mr H made extensive use of his points and made 47 reservations in the 
period between February 2011 and June 2017.
In October 2017 PR submitted a claim under s.75 CAA in respect of the 2010 purchase. BPF 
rejected this and said it had been made out of time. In October 2019 PR made a second
claim under s.140A CAA in respect of the 2012 purchase. This too was rejected by BPF. In 
June 2018 PR submitted a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr H. It has raised 
numerous points which I will summarise in brief:
S 75 Claim
D misrepresented the product by making a number of false claims.
Mr H was pressurised into making the purchase.
Due to the actions of D the time limit for the claims was extended by s. 32 of the 
Limitation Act 1980.
S. 140A Claim
D misrepresented the product by making a number of false claims.
D was in breach of contract due to breaking Spanish law and it should be treated as 
being null and void.
D had breached the EU Directive 2008/122/EC.
BPF paid a commission to C and as such was in breach of fiduciary duty.
There was an unfair relationship due to the commission paid, plus a variety of other 
related reasons.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He said the claims under s.75 were out of time and s.32 LA wasnt relevant. He also 
thought the s.140A claims had been made in time. On the question of unaffordable lending 
he didnt believe this had any merit. He also addressed other issues such as the alleged 
breach of contract and didnt consider the actions of D or BPF contravened UK law.
PR didnt agree and said the conclusion reached by our investigator was manifestly wrong. It 
submitted a generic Counsels Opinion and then a paper addressing the activities of D. It 
later requested that this service submit a list of question to BPF and refer the answer to it.
Our investigator said the additional generic material did not cause him to change his mind.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
The S. 75 Claims for MisrepresentationS. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr H) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against D would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr H made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would 
have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr H had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claim.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr H entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of D.
And as the loans from BPF in 2010 and 2012 were used to help pay for the purchases, it 
was when he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in March 2010 and December 2012  
which means that, at the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant 
credit agreements to make his claims. But as he didnt do that until October 2017 and 
October 2019, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed 
in keeping with the LA, his claims are likely to have been too late. And for that reason, I think 
BPF has a defence to them under the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but 
this is relevant law and I said that I had taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because 
the claim Mr H made is for repayment of sums he paid to the loan, which is an action for 
sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr H would have to 
bring an action within six years of March 2010 and December 2012 at the latest. As he didnt 
do that, I consider he brought the claim too late.Could the limitation period be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I didnt think the time limits I set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. I considered several reasons specifically 
raised in more detail.
PR has suggested s.32 LA is relevant. It states that in cases where an action is based on the 
fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately 
concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from 
when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence). It has been suggested that the payment of commission and the fact 
that the alleged misrepresentations were fraudulent could engage this provision.
I considered what PR said about the amount of commission that might have been paid by 
BPF to the timeshare provider for arranging the loan. PR argued that BPF should have told 
him about that. From what I had seen across the industry, I understand that if commission 
was ever paid it tended to be low and of less than 10%. I am satisfied BPF didnt breach any 
duty in making such a payment, nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount 
of commission paid in these circumstances. Further, I didnt think the levels of commission 
that were normally paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that BPF should have 
appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr H risked the relationship being unfair under 
section 140A CCA.
For those reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr H is able to rely on s.32 LA here. For the 
avoidance of any doubt, I would make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that the 
timeshare supplier was acting as agent to Mr H. I cant see that its role was to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I dont think the 
timeshare provider needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to
Mr H. So I cant say BPF acted improperly in paying a commission to the timeshare supplier, 
if any such commission was paid.
As I said, I thought any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, even if 
I was satisfied that Mr H could rely on s.32 LA to assist with this part of his complaint, I am 
not persuaded it was likely a court would conclude that any commission paid created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
I have also considered whether s.32 LA assisted Mr H if the alleged misrepresentations were 
fraudulent. For there to be a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and 
therefore one which BPF could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA, there would need to be a 
number of things needed to be found. There would need to be a false representation by the 
fraudster, that representation would need to have been made knowing it was false (or being 
reckless as whether it was false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in
reliance of the representation and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here I couldnt see 
any evidence that any of those four elements were satisfied. In particular, I dont consider Mr 
H has set out in any level of detail the false statements of fact that were allegedly made to 
them by the supplier.
I also note that Mr H and his family were able to make extensive use of the points and this 
somewhat undermines some of the claims made by PR on his behalf. According to D: They 
had difficulties getting an upgraded apartment size for an existing booking in April 2015, 
were unable to get a booking at a specific resort in Lanzarote for June 2014 when they 
contacted us in May 2014 (although they did successfully secure a reservation at another resort on the same island for their desired dates), and could not find any availability for 
Tenerife in November 2011 when they contacted us in September 2011, but these are the 
only issues I've spotted. It should be pointed out that on both of the latter two occasions, the 
resorts had been available for them to book for many months at the time that they contacted 
us.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mr H suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to him, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr H 
before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
I have noted the Counsels Opinion and the latest submissions by PR including the request 
for this service to seek further information. The points made in these generic documents do 
not give me reason to uphold the complaint and I do not consider it necessary to seek further 
information to reach a reasonable and fair conclusion in this complaint.
Conclusion
Overall, I thought BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claims were 
brought too late. It is ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr H 
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see 
from the information available, any claim that Mr H might have against the supplier and/or 
BPF had most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I thought it was reasonable to 
take that into account in these circumstances. I also think it was also entitled to conclude 
that the claims also failed on their merits. Overall I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly 
in declining the claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add. Despite being reminded PR has not 
responded. As such I have been given no reason to alter my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman