DRN-2684386
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his claim for storm damage 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K found damp patches around the chimney breast in a property he owned. So, he 
contacted Ageas to make a claim for storm damage to the roof and also to the handles on 
some windows.
Mr K provided some builders quotes for the work. Ageas then sent a surveyor to assess the 
damage. Ageas declined the claim for storm damage but said the roof damage might form 
part of an already ongoing claim at the property. Ageas later confirmed that the roof damage 
wasnt covered as part of the other claim either.
Mr K said that the damage was the result of recent storms. Ageas looked at another builders 
report provided by Mr K but still said the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear, not a 
storm.
When Mr K complained to Ageas, it maintained its decision to decline the claim, as the 
damage wasnt due to an insured peril.
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down the claim on the basis of the damage 
being the result of wear and tear, not a storm.
As Mr K did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports to see if the weather conditions were 
such that they would be considered a storm. These showed that there were very strong 
winds around the time of the claim and also a substantial amount of rain, both of which 
would be considered severe enough to be storm conditions. So, I think the answer to the first 
question is yes.
On the second question, Mr K said there were two types of damage. One was to the roof 
and the other was that the handles broke on some of the windows. I think that a storm could 
cause tiles to lift on a roof. However, I dont think a storm would typically cause window 
handles to break off the window itself. 
Im aware that Mr K provided a quote for replacement windows, including new handles, 
which said To supply and fit x 2 windows damaged beyond repair in storm. But, on its own, 
this doesnt persuade me that this was typical storm damage. I also note that Mr K said that 
Ageas didnt assess the damage to the windows in person and only did so based on photos. 
Ageas said that it could see the handles in the photos, despite Mr K saying that he didnt 
know where they were. Ive looked at the photos and can also see the handles. Im aware 
that Mr K told our investigator that although the handles were visible in the photos that it was 
only part of them. However, I still dont think this damage was typical of a storm. So, I 
currently think for the roof, the answer to the second question is yes, but for the window 
handles, it is no.
For the third question, thinking about the roof, Ive looked at Ageas assessment of the roof 
damage. This was carried out by a company dealing with Mr Ks other ongoing claim. This 
said:
Tiles have dislodged from the gable elevation. The cement pointing to the gable tiles is 
missing. We believe strong wind may have dislodged these but had the cement work been in 
good order this would have been unlikely to have happened. We therefore believe this to be 
wear and tear.
Mr K also provided some builders quotes. One quote explained the work that would be 
carried out, but didnt suggest a cause of the damage. Mr K provided a further copy of that 
quote dated the same day as the original, which included the additional wording Works to 
be carried out due to recent storms/ high winds. After storm Ciara damaged was noticed to 
all elevations and chimney stacks (as original). The second copy of the quote was £3,000 
cheaper.
The quote from a second builder gave a company name but no further details, such as an 
address or contact phone number. It was handwritten and after listing the work to be carried 
out, it said I believe the problems found are due to the storms we have recently 
experienced.
Ive looked at photos of the roof and these show that some tiles had moved near the 
chimney, as well as elsewhere on the roof. Ive also read an email that Mr K sent to Ageas in 
which he accepted that there was wear and tear to the roof, but said that the tiles had been 
moved by high winds.
Thinking about the roof claim, in my view, it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on its own 
experts assessment that the damage was unlikely to have happened if the cement work had 
been in good order and that the overall condition of the roof showed that wear and tear was 
likely to have been the main cause of that damage.
I have also considered the builders quotes provided by Mr K, but I dont think that either of 
these show why the storm was more likely to be the main cause of the damage rather than 
wear or tear 
For the damage to the window handles, I havent considered the third question, as I dont 
think a storm would typically cause this type of damage. I also cant see any other standard 
part of the policy that this damage would be covered by and Mr K didnt have accidental 
damage cover.Mr K was also unhappy about Ageas customer service. The only part of this that was 
included in the complaint to Ageas was about when a claims handler ended a phone call. 
Ive listened to a range of calls from that day, but none of them seemed to be the call that 
was terminated. So, I havent been able to hear what happened myself. However, I did listen 
to the phone calls when Mr K then contacted Ageas to say the call had been terminated. Ive 
also read Ageas response to the complaint, which said that it was sorry that Mr K was 
unhappy about this but that Ageas expected colleagues to be treated with respect. 
Without being able to listen to what actually happened, it is difficult for me to comment on 
whether I think it was reasonable for Ageas to terminate the call. However, Im currently of 
the view that Ageas acted reasonably by logging Mr Ks complaint so that it could be 
investigated and that it then explained its position on why it would terminate a phone call. 
But I think it would be unfair on both Mr K and Ageas for me to comment any further on this 
point, as any comments would be based on speculation on my part when, in reality, I dont 
know what happened. I should also add that I have no reason to think that Ageas has 
deliberately withheld the call from this service. It has provided a range of calls, but seems 
unable to locate this one, although it isnt clear why that is the case.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 March 2021.
Mr K said he was concerned that Ageas couldnt locate the terminated phone call. He said 
that Ageas also only looked at the roof from across the road and confirmed that the quotes 
he had provided were genuine.
Ageas confirmed that it had tried to locate the call and was unable to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, in line with my provisional 
decision. As part of that, Ive considered all the comments provide in response to my 
provisional decision, even if I dont comment on them here. 
I can understand that Mr K is concerned that the phone call isnt available. When I made my 
provisional decision, I thought about this point carefully. I didnt see anything to suggest that 
Ageas had deliberately withheld the call. I also thought about whether it made a difference to 
the decision about the storm claim itself and decided that it didnt. Ive already explained my 
view on the terminated call in my provisional decision, based on the information available to 
me. However, I accept that it would have been more satisfactory had I been able to listen to 
the call.
Ive also thought about the inspection carried out by Ageas. Mr K has said that Ageas didnt 
go on the roof to assess it. Where an insurer carries out an inspection, we would expect that 
to be an appropriate assessment and for the person to explain their findings. Ive looked at 
what Ageas was told by the person who assessed the roof. They explained that they hadnt 
gone on the roof and had made their assessment from ground level, what they had found 
and why they thought it was more likely to be wear and tear. I think that was reasonable. 
Ageas also considered other information such as photos and the quotes provided by Mr K, 
so I think Ageas made its decision based on a range of information. Looking at all the 
information it considered, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim for storm 
damage.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman