DRN-4003502
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly added information about 
him to CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr B says he opened an account with Halifax. He was then told it would be closed but that 
Halifax hadnt added any CIFAS marker. He provided it with information to show that there 
was information at CIFAS and was unhappy it wouldnt remove it. He believes that this has 
affected other applications for financial products at different businesses.
Halifax said that it had misinformed Mr B about the information at CIFAS. But that it wouldnt 
be removing any marker. It had believed that he had been the victim of impersonation. And it 
said that this reporting provided an added level of protection for Mr B. It said it had an 
obligation to load markers where there had been impersonation. And that this meant that 
there is a strong safeguard in place and that other financial businesses can increase their 
checks.
Our investigator recommended that Halifax remove the information at CIFAS. He explained 
to Mr B why Halifax had thought that his application had been made by someone else. There 
was a discrepancy with his employment details and there were other discrepancies with his 
details. Halifax was entitled to close his account under its terms and conditions if it believed 
that there had been fraudulent activity.
In these circumstances two markers are added at CIFAS. One is a protective marker which 
highlights to other lenders that Mr B had been the victim of identity theft and gives his 
genuine details. And the other one that would flag the fraudulent details used in a particular 
application. This helped any other financial business to check a future application had been 
from the genuine customer. Neither would be a reason in itself for Mr B to have future 
applications declined as he believed had been the case.
Halifax had now told our investigator that the information had been removed. He didnt 
recommend that it do anything more or that Mr B should be compensated.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He didnt think that thered been 
a basis to add the information. And this wasnt only about the marker but the time hed spent 
on this. He said that this had destroyed his life over the last eight months. He wanted to be 
compensated for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that our investigator set out in detail for Mr B the reasons why Halifax had grounds 
to think that his application wasnt genuine. I  consider that it has shown why it decided to 
close his account and add the information at CIFAS. I appreciate that Mr B has since shown 
it was a genuine application but Im looking at what Halifax did at that time. I cant see it 
acted outside its process.
Unfortunately, Halifax then wrongly told Mr B that it hadnt added any information or markers 
at CIFAS. That wasnt correct, and it apologised for this. It maintained though that the 
markers would be kept in place.
That wasnt logical. The reason the information was recorded at CIFAS was because of the 
impersonation of Mr B it believed had taken place. But he hadnt been impersonated and so 
the grounds for the marker remaining fell away. I understand that it has since removed the 
information. Although there may have been a period before that showed on records about 
him.
I appreciate that Mr B has provided evidence hes been turned down for other accounts by 
third parties. But Im satisfied that the information recorded by Halifax wouldnt correctly have 
caused him detriment as it was to show he had been the victim of fraud. It might have been 
expected to result in greater checks of any application. And if he is unhappy that another 
financial business had misinterpreted the information when considering an application then 
that would need to be a complaint against that business.
We dont tend to make awards for the time spent in pursuing a complaint or only for 
complaint handling as it isnt a separate regulated activity. Halifax apologised for the 
misinformation, and I dont think Halifax need do more than remove the information and 
markers at CIFAS relating to this application being one involving impersonation fraud as it 
says it has now done.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to remove the information it has reported about this application at CIFAS as it says it 
has now done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman