DRN-3561559
The complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc changed the contact details on her buy 
to let mortgage in response to a request from a fraudster, which led to a series of debts 
being taken out in her name without her knowledge.
What happened
Ms J has a buy to let mortgage with NatWest. She checked her credit file and found that 
NatWest had carried out a credit search using her name and personal details, but an 
address that she did not recognise.
Ms J then spoke to NatWest, and learned that the correspondence address on her mortgage 
had been changed to the other address in 2019. NatWest said it had received a letter 
instructing it to make the change. Since then it had sent an annual mortgage statement and 
a letter about coronavirus payment deferrals to that address. As the letter had been returned 
undelivered, it had not sent anything further there.
Ms J has since discovered that a series of loans and debts have been taken out in her name 
at the other address. Overall, around £22,000 of lending has been taken out and shows on 
her credit file in her name but with the fake address. She has reported this to the police and 
the credit reference agencies, as well as the other lenders.
Ms J complained to NatWest. She said it should never have accepted the change of address 
letter. She said that there were errors and warning signs on the letter  for example, it 
referred to a residential not a buy to let mortgage; the letter asked for all three points of 
contact (address, email and phone) to be changed at once; and, importantly, the signature 
did not match hers. 
Ms J said that NatWest should have identified these problems and never actioned the 
request. Had it done so, the address on her mortgage account wouldnt have been changed, 
the fraudster wouldnt have been sent a mortgage statement as proof of identity, and 
wouldnt have been able to take out the other credit. Ms J also complained that one of the 
credit reference agencies had told her that NatWest had refused a request to dissociate her 
from the fake address.
NatWest said it changed Ms Js details following the 2019 letter. It said the letter included 
sufficient details about her and her account to allow it to make the changes requested. It said 
it had therefore followed the correct process and had no reason not to make the changes. 
But it had now changed her details back to the correct ones. And it offered to pay for one 
years subscription to a credit reference agency, and one years protective registration on the 
CIFAS fraud database. It has also noted on its internal records for her account that strict 
security checks are to be made in future, including contacting Ms J to confirm that any 
changes are ones she has requested before implementing them.
Our investigator noted that the signature on the letter did not match the records of Ms Js 
signature held with NatWest. NatWest accepted this, and accepted that on reflection it 
should not have acted on the letter to change the details on Ms Js account.
Our investigator said that NatWest should offer Ms J compensation of £1,000 as well as its 
offer to cover the costs of subscribing to credit reference and fraud prevention agencies. But 
Ms J didnt think that went far enough. She said it had taken NatWest almost a year to 
remove the association with the fake address from her credit file. She also said that NatWest 
should change the mortgage account number so that the information the fraudster has no 
longer relates to her mortgage account. And she said the fraud had had a wide and 
significant impact on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im very sorry to hear about everything Ms J has been through. Im sure this has 
been an upsetting, difficult and time-consuming experience for her  combined with the 
worry about the impact on her finances.
Im pleased to see that NatWest now accepts it should never have acted on the fraudsters 
letter in 2019  not least because the signature is clearly not Ms Js. That was an error, and 
it should not have changed the details on Ms Js mortgage or written to the wrong address. 
That means that in this decision my primary focus is on what NatWest has done, and still 
needs to do, to put matters right.
NatWest has now removed the association it recorded with the fake address from Ms Js 
credit file. But it took far too long to do that  which compounded Ms Js upset and 
frustration.
However, NatWest cant remove any of the other entries from her credit file. Only the 
relevant lenders which made those entries can do that. NatWest is only responsible for the 
entries it made.
Putting things right
Overall, I do think significant compensation is due here. NatWests initial dismissive 
response, and the delays in correcting Ms Js credit file, only made things worse for her. It 
ought to have taken her concerns more seriously as soon as Ms J first got in touch  it was 
only when our investigator pointed out the disparity in the signatures that it conceded it ought 
to have done more.
And it does seem that the 2019 letter was the first stage in the wider fraud  with the 
resulting correspondence from NatWest, to the fake address, providing further evidence 
used to deceive other lenders. 
So its possible that had NatWest not accepted that letter, the later frauds might not have 
succeeded. However, its also important to note that NatWest isnt responsible for the fraud  
the fraudster is. And while NatWests error in accepting the change of address to some 
extent made things easier for the fraudster, the fraudster already had Ms Js name, date of 
birth, driving licence number and the details of her mortgage (the lender, property address 
and balance at least) before contacting NatWest. So I cant say for sure that if NatWest had 
refused the change, the fraudster wouldnt have found some other way to proceed.
I cant hold NatWest responsible for everything Ms J has experienced, therefore. But I am 
satisfied that its actions in allowing the change of address did help facilitate the fraud, with all 
the consequences for Ms J that followed  and its response to her attempts to put things 
right made things worse. Ive considered what Ms J has said about the level of compensation. But bearing in mind 
what Ive said, and bearing in mind the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service 
has made in other cases and our guidance on compensation1, Im satisfied £1,000 is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
I also agree that NatWest should pay for a years subscription to a credit reference agency, 
so Ms J can monitor her record to make sure there are no more problems. 
And it should pay for a years registration at the CIFAS database. Id like to reassure Ms J 
that this does not mean that she is being treated as being involved in fraud. Protective 
registration means that shes been noted as a past victim of identity theft, and therefore that 
lenders should take special care with security requirements to make sure applications really 
do come from her. But it has no impact on the outcome of any applications she might want to 
make once the extra security requirements have been passed. Its a standard tool used in 
the financial services industry to offer more protection to victims of fraud and identity theft.
Ms J has also asked that NatWest change the account number on her mortgage. She 
believes this will stop the fraudster trying the same thing again in the future. And I can 
understand why she wants this reassurance. But this isnt straightforward to do  NatWests 
systems dont allow an account number to be changed on a live account. NatWest could 
possibly close down this mortgage and create another, though thats not straightforward 
either. 
NatWest has explained that its put extra security measures in place on Ms Js account. 
These include requiring extra security questions to be asked whenever theres telephone 
contact about the account, and requiring contact to be made with Ms J before any requests 
to make changes via letter or email are actioned. 
While I know this doesnt go as far as she wanted, I think this is fair and I hope it reassures 
Ms J that NatWest has now taken what happened seriously and has taken reasonable steps 
to make sure it cant happen again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms J £1,000 compensation;
Provided Ms J produces invoices or other evidence of the expenditure, refund the 
costs of subscriptions to each of the three main credit reference agencies, and the 
costs of a protective CIFAS registration, for one year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience 