DRN-4018586
The complaint
Mr H complained that his motor policy was unfairly cancelled by Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited (Skyfire). Mr H had representation during his complaint, but for ease and simplicity, 
I will only refer to Mr H.
What happened
Mr Hs policy was cancelled by Skyfire around two months after his policy was taken out. 
Skyfire checked the details Mr H had provided when taking out his policy. Skyfire identified 
contradicting information when cross referencing the details on Mr Hs application to other 
information sources it had. It led Skyfire to believe the information on the policy application 
was inaccurate. Skyfire requested further information from Mr H on two separate occasions 
and used both email and text message to contact him.
When Skyfire didnt hear back from Mr H it amended his policy and charged an increase in 
his premium (based upon the other information). An email was sent to Mr H confirming the 
details and asking for payment  Skyfire said it would cancel the policy if it didnt hear 
anything. The email was received in Mr Hs spam folder, so it was overlooked by Mr H, and 
he didnt respond to Skyfire. Skyfire cancelled the policy.
Not long afterwards, Mr H was unfortunately stopped by the Police and charged for driving 
his vehicle without valid insurance cover. This had a financial impact on Mr H as his car was 
impounded and he couldnt do his job any longer. The experience was stressful for Mr H due 
to his own unique circumstances and the Polices involvement. He thinks due to his 
circumstances, any communications from Skyfire shouldve been done by telephone or post. 
Mr H wants to be reimbursed for his financial loss, have his policy reinstated so he can 
present it to the Police, and he wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Skyfire had been fair in 
cancelling the policy. He thought Skyfire had used reasonable methods to contact Mr H and 
had cancelled the policy in line with the terms and conditions. Mr H disagreed, so the case 
has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not unusual for insurers to want to validate the details a policyholder provides when 
taking out cover. Its part of an insurers process to ensure the risk it is taking on when 
providing insurance cover is accurate. An insurer often validates this information when a 
claim is made, but equally its entitled to check this information at any time. If the risk of 
paying a claim turns out to be different to what was assumed by an insurer when setting the 
premium due to information been incorrect, its likely to want to either cancel the policy or 
offer it under different terms.
Skyfire has explained that they had identified inconsistencies in information it had for Mr H. 
Mr H has since provided evidence that the information he used when making his application 
was correct. Unfortunately, Skyfire didnt have this information / evidence at the time Mr Hs 
details were being validated. So, I think its fair it asked Mr H some further questions to make 
itself comfortable the risk it was taking on was accurate.
Mr H didnt see the communications Skyfire made with him, as the emails arrived in his 
spam folder which he said he doesnt check. Importantly, he didnt see the email informing 
him his insurance would be cancelled if he didnt act. Mr H thinks this was an unreasonable 
method of communication. He thought post or a telephone call shouldve been used by 
Skyfire. He has also explained why he thinks his own personal circumstances compounds 
his need for this.
Skyfire have explained its normal process is to send communications by email. I dont think 
this is an unreasonable method of communication. I appreciate Mr H may not have seen the 
email as it went into his spam folder, but I think its Mr Hs own responsibility to ensure his 
email is set-up efficiently for his own use. I dont think its fair to hold Skyfire accountable for 
this as it did communicate clearly with Mr H. Ive also noted that Mr H didnt respond to 
earlier communications that were also sent by text.
Mr H has explained his personal circumstances. Unfortunately, Skyfire werent aware of 
these whilst these events unfolded. I havent seen anything to suggest Skyfire wouldnt have 
acted fairly had it known about Mr Hs specific needs. I think if Mr H had requested, for 
example, that he wanted all communications by post, I think it wouldve done this. The policy 
sets out clearly the normal mode of communication. It states only in limited circumstances 
will you be written to by post. Because of this, you must provide a valid email address.
I am not going to uphold this complaint. I think Skyfire has been reasonable in what its done 
based upon what it knew at the time. It has followed the process set out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy. The policy states the insurer may ask to see a copy of your driving 
licence and proof of your no claims discount. If you fail to provide these when asked, the 
insurer may cancel your policy. As the information wasnt provided Skyfire started its 
cancellation procedures. It then gave seven days-notice before cancelling the policy, which I 
think is reasonable.
I appreciate Mr H will have experienced difficult times from what resulted. But, I dont think in 
these circumstances, its fair to say Skyfire were at fault. I think Skyfire were reasonable in 
not recording the cancellation on Mr Hs record, so he isnt penalised in the future when 
taking out other insurance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman