DRN-2750999
The complaint
Mr M complained that hed received unsuitable advice from London & Country Mortgages 
Ltd (L&C).
What happened
In 2019, Mr M approached L&C for mortgage advice. The property he wanted to buy needed 
renovation work. L&C recommended a mortgage with a five year fixed rate product, which 
Mr M took out, completing on his purchase on 18 September 2019.
In early 2020, Mr M was talking to a colleague about mortgages, and she told him that the 
lender he was with didnt offer mortgages without an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). Mr M, 
who says he never received any documentation about his mortgage, contacted the lender, 
and found out that his mortgage product did have an ERC. He said the lender commented 
that a mortgage with an ERC wasnt suitable for someone who was renovating a property. 
Mr M complained to L&C about the advice hed received, and asked for L&C to pay the ERC 
so he could re-mortgage.
L&C didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In its final response in November 2020, it said that:
- it couldnt see that the adviser had been made aware of the renovations to Mr Ms 
property, and hed said he planned to stay in the property long-term;
- its recommendation letter had set out that Mr M would be tied in for the five years of 
the fixed rate product, which would incur ERCs if he left before the end of the five 
years;
- the valuation which the lender had conducted hadnt raised any concerns about the 
property not being habitable in its current state.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said it wasnt true that the broker 
hadnt known he was renovating the property and that a long-term mortgage product would 
be unsuitable. He said hed had extensive conversations with the broker about the fact the 
property needed a full renovation  and this was why the mortgage hed taken out was more 
than £70,000 higher than the amount of money I needed to buy the property. He said if the 
broker hadnt known he was doing renovations, hed surely have asked why Mr M needed 
that amount.
Mr M also disagreed with L&Cs comment that the lenders valuation hadnt commented on 
the property being uninhabitable. He said that he remembered speaking to the broker about 
the valuation, which he said had been undervalued. Mr M said the broker had told him not to 
worry, because they knew the property was worth more, and would be worth even more 
once the renovation work had been completed. 
Mr M also said that he definitely hadnt expressed a preference for a 5 year mortgage. Hed 
explained that his previous mortgage had had no exit fees, which was more important to him 
than stability of payments.
Mr M explained that he was currently trapped in a mortgage because he couldnt afford the 
ERC. This meant he couldnt re-mortgage, which he wanted to do in order to consolidate the 
£20,000 credit card debts which had accumulated because of the renovation work going 
over budget. He wanted to be able to consolidate into an affordable monthly payment.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She listened to the call recordings, and set 
out what Mr M and the broker had said, in particular about ERCs. She thought the broker 
had been very clear in explaining his recommendations and the ERCs. She couldnt say that 
Mr M wouldnt have been aware of the ERCs and how much theyd be, on the recommended 
product. And this had been confirmed in the mortgage offer which had been emailed to Mr M 
on 21 August 2019. She sympathised with Mr M that the renovation costs had gone over 
budget, and hed used credit cards to complete the work, leaving him in financial difficulties. 
But she couldnt say that L&C had provided bad advice.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed made it clear from the outset that he wanted the ability to 
exit the mortgage. And ERCs and fixed rate products werent suitable for someone doing a 
renovation, because theyd want to remortgage. Mr M asked if L&C had provided the initial 
phone call, and said that he definitely hadnt understood that the mortgage hed been talked 
into didnt have the flexibility hed specifically asked for. Mr M also disputed that the broker 
hadnt known he was doing a full renovation. He pointed out that he and the broker had 
discussed the low valuation which the banks valuer had given, and theyd discussed the 
value after a complete renovation. Mr M said the broker should have known that anyone 
taking on that level of work needed a flexible mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to the phone calls between Mr M and L&C. Mr M asked whether these 
include Mr Ms initial call with the broker who recommended his mortgage, and they do.
Renovation
I agree with Mr M that he made it clear to L&Cs broker that he planned to carry out work on 
the property he planned to buy. For example, in the phone call on 1 August 2019, Mr M said 
this property needs a lot of work. This was said during the discussions about how much Mr 
M needed to borrow. He said he expected to have equity of around £347,000 from his 
previous property, and that he wanted to keep some of this equity for the work. The broker 
asked how much Mr M wanted to hold back, and Mr M said about £50,000, but that hed like 
to hold back about £70,000 in case. The mortgage offer which Mr M accepted did provide for 
that.
In terms of the extent of the renovations, I havent heard anything on the calls which indicate 
that the property wasnt habitable when Mr M completed on its purchase. I also think its 
likely that if the lenders free valuation had found the property completely uninhabitable, 
there would have been more questions asked than the £10,000 down-valuation from the 
purchase price. 
Renovating a property doesnt necessarily mean a fixed rate is unsuitable. It might if Mr M 
had planned to renovate then sell within the tie-in period. But thats not what he told the 
broker  he said he planned to live there for a long time, possibly ten years. And the lender was willing to lend after carrying out the valuation. So I dont find that the work Mr M planned 
to do made L&Cs advice unsuitable. 
ERC
In the phone call, L&C asked Mr M whether he would want to overpay the proposed 
mortgage, by more than 10%. Mr M said he wouldnt. The broker then asked if Mr M would 
be prepared to accept early repayment charges, and Mr M said no. The broker asked why, if 
he didnt intend to overpay, and had no intention of selling. The broker explained ERCs, and 
Mr M said he wasnt going to be paying off the whole mortgage, so he accepted a fixed rate. 
The broker explained that there were fixed rates from 2 years up to 10 years, and suggested 
a 5 year rate, which would guarantee the rates for that time. 
Mr M said that he was currently single, and asked what would happen if his circumstances 
changed. The broker said that if he were to sell and buy another property, he might be able 
to transfer (port) the mortgage to the new property, though that couldnt be guaranteed. Mr 
M also asked about the amounts of the ERC, and was told that the ERCs were on a sliding 
scale from 5% of the mortgage balance in the first year, 4% in the second year etc. Mr M 
said that was ok and not a horrendous amount.
In the light of this recording, I cant say that Mr M was unaware of what an ERC meant, 
either generally or for the particular 5 year product he took out.  
Ive also looked at the documentation, because Mr M said he didnt receive a copy of the 
details of the mortgage, so he couldnt read the small print for himself.
L&C completed a Mortgage Illustration on 2 August 2019, which starts This document was 
produced for Mr M on 2 August 2019 and L&C said it emailed this to him. Section 8 of 
this Illustration is headed Early repayment and sets out the ERC which would apply to the 
recommended product. This includes the date to which ERCs would apply, the percentage, 
and sample figures if the mortgage were to be paid off in the various years of the five year 
term.  I wouldnt expect to see a Read  Receipt for an email of this type, but I accept that its 
more likely than not that L&C sent this to Mr Ms stated email address. 
I also accept that the mortgage offer was also sent to Mr M, both by the lender and by L&C.  
L&C said it sent this to him on 21 August, and again I accept that its more likely than not 
that this was sent to Mr M. This document also sets out full details of the ERC.
I also think its more likely than not that Mr Ms solicitor would have ensured that Mr M knew 
the terms of the mortgage to which he was signing up.
So I consider that Mr M would have known the terms of the proposed mortgage, including 
the ERC implications, before he took out the mortgage. So hed have had the opportunity to 
check the detail and to ask for a different product, without ERCs, if hed wanted to.
I find that it was reasonable for the broker to consider that a product with an ERC was 
suitable for Mr M. Mr M said he didnt plan to make any overpayments, or sell the property, 
and the product was portable. This all indicates it was suitable for his needs and 
circumstances.I do understand that Mr M says the work on his property ran over budget, leading to his 
building up £20,000 of credit card debt which is causing him financial difficulties. He wants to 
remortgage and consolidate this into his mortgage. Mr M might wish to consider approaching 
his existing lender to discuss a further advance to consolidate these credit card debts, if he 
hasnt already done so. But I dont find that the evidence shows that L&C made errors when 
it advised Mr M on the original mortgage, and I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman