DRN-3936046
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc applied an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here again 
in detail. 
In summary, Mr H and Mrs H agreed a fixed rate mortgage product with TSB around 
September 2020. Their interest rate was 1.44% until 31 August 2022. Mr H and Mrs H repaid 
the mortgage during the product term and TSB applied an ERC. 
Mr H and Mrs H say this is unfair. They didnt feel the information provided by TSB was 
clear. They say they were not advised that any payment before the end of the fixed term 
would result in them paying the ERC. Mr H and Mrs H were also unhappy that TSB didnt 
agree to return their redemption funds to allow them to redeem the mortgage again after the 
ERC had expired.   
Our investigator said TSB applied the ERC in accordance with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. He didnt think the information provided by TSB was unclear or misleading. Mr H 
and Mrs H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr H and Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2020 mortgage offer that 
was sent to Mr H and Mrs H before they took out the mortgage product. Im satisfied that 
they accepted that offer and the ERC associated with it. The product expired at the end of 
August 2022. It included an ERC, payable until 31 August 2022. So when Mr H and Mrs H 
paid off their mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for TSB to charge the ERC that theyd 
accepted as part of the contract theyd entered into.
Mr H and Mrs H repaid the mortgage on 2 August 2022. TSB applied the ERC, as it was 
entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. Mr H and Mrs H say this is unfair, 
given they could have repaid the mortgage without incurring the ERC a few weeks later. 
They say they were misled about the terms of the ERC and thought they could make the 
payment to redeem their mortgage after they had made their August 2022 payment. 
Ive considered the information provided to Mr H and Mrs H. Ive already mentioned that I 
think the ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer from 2020. It set out in section 
7 that the ERC would apply if the mortgage was repaid early either fully or partially up to 31 
August 2022. It also stated, Should you decide to repay this loan early, please contact us to 
ascertain the exact level of the early repayment charge at the time. Ive been provided a 
copy of the annual mortgage statements sent to Mr H and Mrs H - it also clearly sets out that 
the ERC would apply until 31 August 2022. So Ive gone on to consider if any subsequent 
information provided to them was misleading. 
Mr H and Mrs H spoke to TSB on 16 May 2022, Ive listened to the call and the adviser 
explains to Mr H that their current product ends on 31 August 2022 and they suggest he 
should call them again about 30 days prior to the expiry of the product. This was to obtain a 
redemption statement which would set out the balance they needed to pay without the ERC, 
and it would also confirm the payment details they would need. 
Ive gone on to consider the redemptions statements provided to Mr H and Mrs H. They 
obtained two statements one for redemption on 16 August 2022 and a second for 
redemption on 1 September 2022. Both statements set out the payment needed on the date 
Mr H and Mrs H wanted to repay the mortgage. For example, if they wanted to repay on 16 
August 2022 the statement set out that they would incur an ERC of £1,119.44, but the 
statement for 1 September 2022 set out that there was no repayment charge if they paid on 
that date. 
Mr H and Mrs H say they werent paying the mortgage early but were merely physically 
paying the full amount due for 1 September 2022 earlier than the due date. I dont doubt this 
may have been their intention, but TSB has set out in the redemption statement when they 
needed to make the payment. The payment needed to be made on 1 September 2022 and 
nothing in the statement suggested they could make the payment before this date. If Mr H 
and Mrs H were unsure or didnt find this information clear, they could have called TSB as 
the adviser had suggested in the call on 16 May 2022.  
Having considered the evidence provided Im satisfied that Mr H and Mrs H werent provided 
unclear or misleading information by TSB as to when they needed to repay their mortgage 
without incurring an ERC. So it follows that I dont think TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in applying the ERC. 
Mr H and Mrs H say they also requested TSB return the funds paid to redeem the mortgage 
to allow them to repay the mortgage on the correct date, but TSB refused. They say TSB 
stated anti money laundering regulations as the reason why it wouldnt be able to return the 
funds. I am satisfied this is likely to form part of its process and procedures to ensure it 
meets its responsibilities in relation to anti money laundering regulations, and its not for me 
to tell TSB how these procedures should be adopted. But even if TSB could have returned 
the funds, I cant say it acted unreasonably in deciding not to. I say this because I dont think 
it did anything wrong here so I cant see any reason it would be required to return the funds 
to Mr H and Mrs H.  
I can understand Mr H and Mrs Hs frustration that they could have avoided having to pay an 
ERC by repaying the mortgage a few weeks later. But I dont think this was due to an error 
by TSB. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think TSB misled Mr H and Mrs H about the ERC 
when they took out the product. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer and 
subsequent documentation. And TSB gave Mr H correct information when he called to ask 
about the ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require TSB to refund the ERC.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman