DRN-2146586
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered to 
settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside her credit card. 
What happened
Miss M took out a PPI policy with a credit card in 2006. HSBS upheld her complaint that 
shed been mis-sold the policy and paid her £8,566.84 to compensate her for this mis-sale. 
HSBC said the compensation aimed to put Miss M back in the position she would have been 
in if the policy hadnt been mis-sold to her.
Miss M wasnt satisfied that HSBC had calculated the compensation it paid her correctly and 
complained to this service about this. 
 
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had paid Miss M was fair. But Miss M still wasnt satisfied 
and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has upheld Miss Ms complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I am not 
looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what HSBC has paid 
Miss M in compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
When a PPI policy attached to a credit card has been mis-sold the business needs, as far as 
possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if they had never taken 
out the policy. To do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid plus any interest 
or charges caused by the PPI being added to the card account. The business must also pay 
compensatory interest at a simple rate of 8% for any period a consumer is out of pocket. For 
credit cards, this is when the account would have been expected to be in credit had the PPI 
premiums not been wrongly charged to it.
HSBC has provided evidence from its computer systems to show the monthly PPI premiums 
which were applied to Miss Ms card account from when the PPI was taken out in June 2006. 
So Im satisfied that the £2,047.27 it has refunded to Miss M for all the premiums charged to 
her account has been correctly calculated.
Im also satisfied that HSBC has undertaken a reconstruction of her card account, in the way 
I would have expected, in order to calculate the additional interest and charges of £5,103.04 
which Miss M incurred on her account because of these PPI premiums.
Finally, Im satisfied that HSBC has correctly calculated simple interest at 8% for the times 
when Miss Ms account balance would have been expected to be in credit had it not been for 
the PPI premiums - together with associated interest and charges - wrongly added to her 
account, causing her to be out of pocket. And HSBC has correctly deducted tax of £354.13 
from this compensatory interest of £1,770.66 in the way it is required to do.
In summary, I have no reason to think that the compensation which HSBC has already paid 
to Miss M was not calculated in the way in which this service would have expected in these 
circumstances. This means that I think the compensation payment to Miss M was fair and 
has, as far as is possible, put her back in the position she would have been in if the mis-sale 
hadnt happened. So I dont think HSBC needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman