DRN-3009200
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his business, M, about poor and incorrect advice from Ms 
insurance broker Bothwell Bridge Associates Limited (BBA), leading to inadequate cover.
What happened
I set out the background to Ms complaint in my Provisional Decision and here.
M suffered two break-ins in August 2020 in which tools and hired plant were stolen. Mr Ms 
claim was rejected as the policy didnt cover tools and business equipment. He said BBA 
told him hand tools should be removed and Ms perimeter fence wasnt adequate security.
Mr M said M held business insurance via BBA since 2017. He said he received a renewal 
quote from BBA in April 2020, which stated tools are included within the policy. He accepted 
the quote but said the insurance documents didnt arrive until 1 June 2020. Mr M complained 
to BBA about the cover and said the tools were within a secure container and full perimeter 
fencing was in place. He said they had provided Ms requirements to BBA, but these had 
been ignored as cover wasnt adequate, and BBA hadnt advised of changes in the cover.
BBA said the insurer required a guarded security compound and thieves had just unclipped 
Ms fencing. It said theres no cover for business equipment or tools  and no difference 
between the quote and the policy - the former is an overview and the latter gives full details. 
BBA said its a non-advisory broker not offering clients advice about what to cover; they must 
ensure the policy meets their needs. It said delayed documents were due to the pandemic.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the quote mentions 
tools but doesnt say they are covered. And the quote asks if M has full perimeter fencing to 
which the answer was Yes. She said the cancellation period started when M received the 
policy documents and if it didnt want the policy it could have cancelled at that time. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review Ms complaint. 
He asked why BBA hadnt highlighted significant differences in what M agreed to against the 
actual cover. He asked why BBA didnt give advice to suit Ms demands and needs and 
whats the point of a broker that doesnt advise. Mr M pointed to statements within BBAs 
Commitment to You that indicates it will provide advice and recommendations to clients. 
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I have set out the findings from my provisional decision below.
I didnt consider the actions of Ms insurer as this is a separate business. Mr M said BBA 
should have ensured M had the cover it needed. I considered whether M held the wrong 
cover and whether BBA is to blame for this, in other words if the policy was mis-sold to M.
BBA gathered basic information from M on its Submission Form to meet the insurers 
requirements. If BBA was intending to make an informed recommendation about the cover I 
thought it would have needed far more information. Under the section for Contractors All 
Risks it sets out limits for own plant taken to client sites and hired plant. There is also a 
value for own tools, but I said the document doesnt set out whats covered and theres no 
mention of cover for tools. I thought that the value of tools would have been relevant had M 
selected this cover, but its very clear from the policy documents that M had not done so. 
BBAs quotation sets out Ms cover including Contractors All Risks, but theres no mention 
of tools or cover for tools here. Mr Ms wife said she told BBA that tools should be covered 
when the policy started in 2017. But theres no mention of tools in any policy agreed for M 
and I havent seen any instruction on behalf of M to add tools cover to the policy. 
The quotation warns that the information doesnt take precedence over the policy 
documents. As a quotation, its subject to any changes that M might require. I said that M 
agreed the quotation and as it didnt include tool cover I didnt accept Mr Ms point that 
theres a difference between the cover in the quotation and the policy documents.
I thought about whether the policy was mis-sold to M. I said that Ms policy was the correct 
one for its type of business. However, for reasons that arent clear M didnt request the cover 
for tools that was available under the policy.
Mr M asked why BBA didnt give advice to suit Ms needs and why it doesnt advise clients. 
BBA describes itself as a non-advisory insurance broker that doesnt offer its clients advice 
about the risks they face and the cover they might need. It sent M a link to its registration 
with the Financial Conduct Authority to show that it can assist in the administration and 
performance of a contract of insurance, but not to advise and recommend insurance policies. 
I said this means BBA is not the same as brokers that take full details about their clients 
business in order to recommend a policy that will meet their needs. 
A non-advised sale means the seller isnt advising or recommending a client buy the policy 
but provides information and leaves it to the consumer to decide if the policy is suitable for 
their needs. BBAs responsibility was to provide fair, clear and not misleading information 
about the cover to enable M to decide if the cover was suitable for its needs.
BBA pointed out that its Terms of Business Agreement with M states; The capacity in which 
we act for you. We source and arrange products but do not offer advice or make 
recommendations when arranging your insurance. However, we may ask some questions to 
narrow down the selection of products on which we will provide details; you will then need to 
make your own choice about how to proceed.
I said that as a non-advisory broker BBA only needs to gather information for an insurer and 
point clients to a policy. BBA states, We can arrange the policy described in this quotation. 
This policy is suitable for your requirements as described in the attached Submission Form, 
but it is not a recommendation. And further, We have identified this policy based on our 
understanding of your requirements and our knowledge of the insurance market place. 
I said theres no duty on BBA to recommend a policy that it thinks is suitable for a clients 
needs. This responsibility remains with the policyholder. I thought that it was Ms choice as 
to whether the insurance cover offered was sufficient for its needs.
Mr M suggested that BBAs stated commitments go beyond this. I can see his point. As a 
non-advisory broker, I wouldnt expect to see all of the following statements BBA has made 
to M within its Key Facts and Terms of Business: 
We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed your 
needs for non-investment insurance.We will meet with you throughout the duration of your cover to ensure the quality and 
comprehensiveness of your cover.
We will provide advice on reducing risks and future premiums.
Our permitted business is advising customers on insurance contracts (recommending 
specific insurance policies to customers);
We provide detailed information to you on appropriate insurance policies after we 
have assessed your demands and needs, and to arrange and administer policies on 
your behalf. We will provide these Services in a professional and efficient manner. 
I thought these statements were contradictory to BBAs regulatory status, and its response to 
Ms complaint. But I said they overstated the service offered to M and hadnt made a 
difference to the cover M agreed. I think the more relevant statement from BBA to M 
concerned not making a recommendation about the policy and M making its own choice. I 
think M opted for the cover in any event and so would have lost out on the claim anyway.
I considered if BBA told M everything it should've about the restrictions on cover for plant 
hire. BBA is required to bring to Ms attention the limitations of the cover. I didnt see a 
specific warning about this from BBA, but thought the policy documents were clear that 
unattended plant wouldnt be covered unless held within a locked and secure building or 
locked and guarded security compound. I thought the restriction was sufficiently brought to 
Ms attention, and it was Mr Ms choice about whether or not it could meet the requirement of 
the unattended plant clause. BBA asked M to review the cover to ensure it met its needs. 
BBA said the insurance documents were delayed from 21 April to 1 June 2020 due to the 
pandemic and it had alerted its clients. I thought this was understandable. The Statement of 
Facts issued in June repeated the information about cover in the quotation. Given that M 
hadnt queried the cover required for its claim to be met I didnt think there was any effect in 
the delay and in any event, the documents were received over two months before the thefts.
The policy documents confirm that the 14-day period within which M could cancel the policy 
starts on the day the policy documentation is received, or the day the contract of insurance is 
entered, whichever is later. And so, it was open to M to cancel the policy in June 2020 when 
the documents were received.
I sympathised with Mr M for Ms loss on its first claim, but I didnt think that BBA had made a 
mistake or was to blame for this.
Mr M responded to the Provisional Decision. He said, Under BBAs Key Facts and Terms of 
Business  this is false and fraudulent advertising. And said I had contradicted myself when 
considering these. Mr M said Ms tools were within a locked container within a secure 
compound as required by the policy. 
Mr M said BBA asked for Ms information and provided a quotation with a value of £25,000 
for the tools, but provided different cover and shouldnt get away with this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld.Mr M said Ms tools were within a locked container within a secure compound as required by 
the policy. Ms claim was considered and rejected by its insurer including on this point. As 
the claim wasnt rejected by BBA I cant consider this here. Its open to Mr M to bring a 
separate complaint about the rejection of Ms claim against the policy insurer should he wish.
Mr M said, Under BBAs Key Facts and Terms of Business  this is false and fraudulent 
advertising. And said I had contradicted myself when considering these. 
The Key Facts and Terms of Business are requirements on brokers to inform clients about 
how their business will be handled and how to make complaints. They are not advertising, 
though as Ive said I think they go beyond BBAs regulatory status and are contradictory to 
the statements its made within its policy communications to M. 
In its direct communications with M about the policy, BBA said; We source and arrange 
products but do not offer advice or make recommendations when arranging your insurance. 
However, we may ask some questions to narrow down the selection of products on which 
we will provide details; you will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed. 
BBA further told M that it wouldnt make any recommendations about cover. 
In considering whether or not BBA mis-sold the policy to M I have thought about all of BBAs 
statements. Although contradictory, I think the tenor of its statements concerning the policy 
give a reasonably clear indication about the limit of the service available to M. Overall, I still 
dont think the statements made a difference to the cover M agreed and so had little effect 
on the outcome of the claim.
I said that M agreed the quotation and as it didnt include tool cover I didnt accept Mr Ms 
point that theres a difference between the cover in the quotation and the policy documents. 
This means that although the quotation might have been clearer, the policy documents were 
clear there was no cover and Mr M was requested to check to see that the cover met his 
needs. He could have done so In June 2020 when he received the policy documents and 
amended the cover. Unfortunately, he didnt and is responsible for the lack of cover for the 
claim.
Having reconsidered this complaint and Mr Ms points I remain of the view that BBA is not to 
blame for the absence of cover for the items stolen from M.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman