DRN-2504286
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the renewal offer from Aviva Insurance Limited for his home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said hed had a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by Aviva for over 10 
years. Itd previously cost him £122 a year. But his recent renewal quote had risen to over 
£200 for the same cover. 
Mr C said hed spoken to Aviva but the best it could offer was a reduction to £150 a year with 
a £30 excess for call-outs. Mr C said Aviva was the only company that offered this type of 
service. So he couldnt look elsewhere. And he doesnt want to pay more than £120 per 
year. 
Aviva said it appreciated that Mr C had been a customer for a number of years. But it had to 
look at prices each year and consider business costs and investments in its service. Aviva 
said Mr C had originally been quoted a renewal premium of nearly £230 in line with other 
customers. But it would consider a discount if a customer got in touch to discuss their 
individual circumstances. Aviva said itd introduced policies with a lower premium that 
required customers to pay an excess in the event of a claim. But it couldnt offer Mr C a 
similar discount to the previous year.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see Mr C was unhappy with the quote hed 
received to renew his home emergency policy. But Aviva had offered alternatives and a 
discount to its original quote. So he didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly. 
Our investigator explained that our service didnt usually look at how much insurers charge 
for their policies. It wasnt something that was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
And he hadnt seen any evidence the quote offered to Mr C had been impacted by factors 
such as discrimination, misleading information or a restricted choice. So he didnt think any 
further action was required.
Mr C didnt agree. He feels our service should be able to tell Aviva to offer a reduction. So 
hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has been a loyal customer of Aviva for many years. The home emergency policy 
covers him for incidents such as leaking internal plumbing, blocked drains, burst pipes and 
more. But his premium has increased considerably from the previous year.
 
I can understand why Mr C isnt happy. But that doesn't necessarily mean that Aviva has 
done anything wrong. Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And 
their rates continually change. Insurers ask themselves whats the likelihood of a particular 
consumer making a claim and how much is that claim likely to cost? They use this to decide 
whats the right amount of premium to charge.
Its important to understand were not the industry regulator; thats the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And the FCA doesnt regulate on the price insurers charge or the methods 
an insurer uses to calculate a price. 
That means its not the role of this service to tell an insurer how much it can charge for its 
policies. And its not our role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when 
assessing risk. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something we 
would usually interfere with.
But there are some aspects we will look into further, depending on whats relevant in a 
particular complaint. This includes discrimination where a consumer has been treated 
differently to other consumers in the same circumstances, if the price is based on incorrect 
information, if consumers arent given clear information to make decisions with, or if a 
consumer doesnt have freedom to change insurers and choose what premium to pay.
Ive looked at everything Mr C and Aviva have said. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
any of those circumstances apply to this complaint. Aviva has provided information to show 
the premium quoted to Mr C was in line with other customers. And our service generally 
takes the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what 
they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
I know Mr C feels he cant get the same sort of insurance elsewhere. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest there arent other companies offering a similar home emergency cover. 
Aviva said its introduced a lower premium for customers that now includes an excess if a 
claim is made. And it offered Mr C a discount to the original premium quoted  it just wasnt 
able to offer the price Mr C said he was prepared to pay. So I cant say Aviva limited Mr Cs 
options for renewal. And I dont think its treated him unfairly.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. And I understand his frustration that the 
premium quoted has increased so much. But based on what Ive seen I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman