DRN-3278984
The complaint
Q, a business, complains that Bank of Scotland plc applied a security charge for a loan that 
it didnt take.
What happened
The owner of Q explains that he had been going to take a business loan. This was going to 
be drawn in February 2021, but he decided not to. And he confirmed this again in April 2021. 
He is unhappy that Q received a letter from Bank of Scotland in August 2021 saying that a 
security charge of £337 would be debited.
Bank of Scotland said it had agreed to refund the charge as a gesture of goodwill. A loan 
agreement for Q had been signed. And this set out the charges including that for taking 
security.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bank of Scotland do anything further. She said that 
we wouldnt be considering at this time a further complaint from Q about this security arising 
on 23 August 2021. This was something Bank of Scotland hadnt looked into and would be 
dealing with separately. 
She said that after Q had decided not to take the loan it didnt seem that further contact from 
Bank of Scotland about it was required. Q had also raised a complaint about the loan which 
was being considered separately by this service. The letter about the security charge was 
issued by Bank of Scotland on 2 August 2021. The owner of Q complained, and a credit was 
applied to its bank account on 13 August 2021. The charge was triggered because the 
security process was in course before Q had said it didnt want the loan. The loan agreement 
signed in February 2021 stated of the charges that they ..shall be paid by you on demand 
by the Bank. These charges are to be paid even if the loan is not borrowed In the 
circumstances she thought that the charge was applied in line with the agreement. It had 
been refunded as a gesture of goodwill.
Q didnt agree. The owner said that he had lost time dealing with this issue and had to pay 
someone else to work on his business. This had been poor customer service and the time 
before the charge was applied hadnt been taken into account. The loan agreement was 
never completed, and no charges had been made on two previous occasions when the loan 
had been halted. This isnt a trivial sum. Q should have been reminded of any financial 
obligations, the loan document was long and there was an unreasonable gap before the 
charge was taken. No actual security was ever taken and the impact on cashflow hasnt 
been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided by Bank of Scotland that there had been legal work 
undertaken on the proposed security based on its instructions even if the charge hadnt been 
registered. The loan agreement referred to the related charges due even if the loan wasnt 
drawn. And so, I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error in stating it would be debiting 
the charge of £337. I think that the terms were reasonably apparent to Q.
Bank of Scotland wrote to Q on 2 August 2021 stating that the charge would be applied on 
23 August 2021. In the event a credit to the account of £337 was applied on 13 August 2021, 
two weeks in advance of the charge being made. I understand the potential cash flow 
implications here but there were no actual ones. As Bank of Scotland wouldnt have made 
any mistake in applying the charge when it thought fit I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require it to do anything more. It has decided to refund the charge which is a benefit for Q. 
As our investigator says the other complaint points raised about the security arent being 
considered here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman