DRN-1680640
 
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998 by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mr B applied for the credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The bank no longer has a copy of the 
policy from the time of the sale, so I have relied on one from the nearest available date and 
what we know about typical PPI policy terms at this time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr B says nothing was ever said about an added insurance policy, PPI wasn't mentioned 
and none of the details were included in the application. Mr B applied for the credit card by 
post, without any direct contact with Barclays. It has provided the application form Mr B 
signed and this shows he indicated that he wanted PPI, and the options to select or decline it 
were set out with equal prominence. Overall, I think Barclays made Mr B aware the PPI was 
optional, and he chose to take it. I can understand he might not recall selecting PPI on the 
form as the sale was so long ago.
Mr B says PPI should never have been added without his circumstances being checked. But 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for 
him. This means it was up to Mr B to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in 
mind his other ways to make his credit card repayments if his circumstances changed.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wast as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the likely exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Mr B told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six months' half pay from his 
employer if he was sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 
months. He said he had savings worth around three months salary but the PPI would have 
meant he could have used these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Mr B also said his partner would have helped but that's 
not suitable alternative protection. It's not guaranteed and people's circumstances can 
change. So, based on his circumstances and the likely terms of the policy, I think it unlikely 
Mr B wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman