DRN-4009602
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £1,411.44 she lost to a 
bank impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs P fell victim to a scam on 17 August 2022 after she 
received a text message claiming to be from the NHS about Covid-19 tests. Mrs P recalls 
clicking the link and entering her details. She then later received a call from a scammer 
claiming to be from her bank, Santander. 
The scammer told Mrs P that two transactions had been made on her account, which Mrs P 
said she didnt recognise, and she said the call was ended. Mrs P later discovered that two 
transactions had been made from her account that day, totalling £1,411.44, She reported 
this to Santander saying she didnt authorise these transactions.
Santander considered Mrs Ps claim but declined to refund the payments as it said they had 
been made from her registered device and even confirmed by a text message sent to her 
phone. Unhappy with this, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They also thought that Mrs P had likely 
authorised the transactions and didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by refusing to 
refund the payments. Mrs P disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate that Mrs P doesnt recall authorising the two payments made on 17 August 
2022. However, Santander has provided evidence to show that the payments were made 
from Mrs Ps device and regular IP address. A text message was also sent to her phone 
about one of the payments asking her to confirm it was genuine, to which a response 
was received confirming it was. 
Mrs P told Santander that no one else had access to her online banking or mobile 
phone, and neither does she recall being asked to download anything. As a result, there 
doesnt appear to be a plausible explanation for how anyone else could have authorised 
the transactions from her device. Therefore, while I accept Mrs P may not recall doing 
so, I consider it more likely than not that she authorised the transactions herself or gave 
her security details/device to somebody else, thereby giving her consent and authority 
for payments to be made on her behalf, as there is seemingly no other point of 
compromise for the payments to have been made by an unauthorised third party. 
As a result, I dont think Santander has acted unfairly by failing to treat the payment as 
unauthorised. I do not doubt that Mrs P has been scammed in these circumstances 
though and may have unwittingly made the payment at the scammers instruction. And 
given Santander is a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), it 
should have considered whether she was eligible for a refund under the Code given the 
transactions are being treated as authorised push payments (APP).
But while Santander may have failed to assess the payments under the CRM Code, I 
dont consider it has acted unfairly by failing to provide a refund in this instance given the 
lack of information available. Mrs P cannot provide a plausible explanation for how or 
why the money was transferred from her account, for example, so it wouldnt be possible 
to determine whether or not she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments to be 
genuine.
I also dont consider Santander would have been obliged to provide an Effective Warning 
under the Code either, as the payments were not of a significant value, and I dont think 
Santander ought to have considered them as posing an APP scam risk. In any event, 
even if Santander should have given an Effective Warning, its not possible to say 
whether such a warning would have been material in preventing the scam, given we do 
not know all the details of how it unfolded.  
As a result, Mrs P wouldnt qualify for a refund under the CRM Code in these 
circumstances. I also dont consider there was any cause for Santander to make further 
enquiries into the disputed payments outside of the Code either, given they wouldnt 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mrs Ps 
previous spending history.
I can also see that Santander attempted to recover the funds from the beneficiary 
account when the scam was reported, but it doesnt appear they received a response 
from the receiving bank. So, I dont think there was anything more it could have done to 
try and recover the money in these circumstances either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs P, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Santander has acted unfairly, 
so I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman