DRN-2977004
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Mr C has explained that he was an inexperienced investor (having invested once 15/20 
years before) and had no experience at all of online investing or dealing with large financial 
transfers. In February 2019 he was looking to invest the majority of his life savings. He came 
across an advertisement for a company and viewed a promotional video before supplying his 
contact details. Soon after Mr C received a call back from company X to discuss investment 
opportunities. Mr C questioned why he was being called by a different company (as he 
hadnt left his contact details with company X) and was told that company X was an 
international investment company and was the parent company of the one hed supplied his 
details to. 
Mr C says he looked up company X on the FCA register and found it online so was satisfied 
he was dealing with a genuine company. He decided to invest so provided anti-money 
laundering documentation. Mr C then tried to make an online payment but wasnt able to so 
he called Santander and explained the system wouldnt let him make the payment. Mr C was 
taken through security before the conversation below took place,
Santander: So who is it you are paying?
Mr C: [name of company Y]
Santander: Have you paid before?
Mr C: No I havent [account details provided]
Santander: If youve received an invoice, bank account or payment details by email this 
could be a scam. Criminals can hack email accounts and spoof email addresses to redirect 
funds to fraudulent accounts for large purchases such as this. We always suggest you check 
the payment details by phone or in person before making the transfer. Are you comfortable 
to continue with this new payment?
Mr C: Yes I have done some checks because  it was a large amount. Ive checked with the 
Financial Conduct Authority about the company erm and thats all checked out OK so erm 
and Ive checked with various other bits. Im naturally a bit careful about these things so um 
make sure they were a company indeed and they are. Erm, its [named company X] is the 
company and Ive checked them on fca.org.uk.
Santander: Youve done your due diligence then sir, youre comfortable?
After hed made the payment Mr C was given access to an online platform so that he could 
see how his investment was performing. 
Mr C then said the company had asked for confirmation of payment to be emailed to it. The 
Santander adviser noted that this was strange as surely the company would see the faster 
payment. He then asked a manager how Mr C might provide this evidence to the payee. As 
part of Santanders process Mr C received a call back from Santander to make the payment 
of £59,998.67. 
A few days later company X called Mr C to discuss another investment. Mr C didnt have the 
funds required but it was agreed Mr Cs initial investment would be moved and hed pay a 
further £19,564. Mr C completed this payment online and received a text from Santander to 
ask if the payment was genuine but says Santander didnt complete any other checks. 
On 10 March 2019 Mr C couldnt log in to his investment account and was unable to contact 
company X by phone or email. A few days later he discussed his concerns with family 
members and became aware that company X was a clone of a genuine company and he 
was the victim of a scam. He reported the scam to Santander on 13 March 2019 and 
Santander contacted both of the payee banks on the same day. The bank the first payment 
of £59, 998.67 was paid to (bank A) confirmed that no funds remained. The bank that 
received the second payment (bank B) returned £9,654 to Mr C on 22 May 2019.
What Santander say
Santander hasnt refunded Mr C. It says he authorised the transactions and successfully 
completed security. Santander also says it has tried to recover Mr Cs funds by contacting 
the two receiving banks.  Turning to the call between Mr C and Santander before the first 
payment was made Santander say it discussed the payment with Mr C, asked relevant 
questions and provided him with a fraud warning.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that the first payment was made in a 
call with Santander and that the questions Mr C was asked werent very detailed. So the 
investigator went on to consider whether asking further questions during this call would have 
made a difference. She determined the payment wouldnt have been prevented. This was 
because she said Mr C had completed extensive research before transferring funds and 
would have been able to give plausible responses to any questions asked. In relation to the 
second payment, the investigator noted Mr C confirmed it to be genuine. Again, she felt that 
Santander should have done more to probe this payment. But for the same reasons as the 
first payment, the investigator felt that if Santander asked further questions the scam would 
not have unfolded so the payment would still have been made. 
The investigator also felt Santander acted reasonably in recovering Mr Cs funds. It 
contacted both receiving banks on the day the scam was reported. Bank A confirmed that no 
funds remained, and bank B said that given the nature of the account it was unable to 
provide the requested information (but later refunded £9,654).
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so its been passed to me. In summary he said:
- Santanders fraud systems are insufficient and its measures negligent, as both 
transactions were flagged but still processed. 
- If Santander had asked relevant questions and provided scam information and 
warnings Mr C would have been put on notice that the checks hed completed were 
inadequate. 
- In relation to the first payment, the investigator referred to a scam script but not its 
wording. Mr C went on to say it was negligent of Santander to allow the payment on 
the basis he confirmed hed checked company X was a genuine company registered 
with the FCA and was happy to make the payment. This was not sufficient to prevent 
a scam of this nature and reflects a lack of staff training. He should have been told of 
the existence of cloned investment firms and how to check he was dealing with a 
genuine one to enable him to make appropriate checks. - In relation to the second transaction Mr C repeated the comments he made about the 
first and added that Santander now provides greater warnings. Mr C said a text 
message isnt sufficient. 
- He doesnt understand how bank B cant trace his funds and asked if this service can 
get this information. 
- The steps Santander took to recover funds from bank A payment were insufficient 
and demonstrate a lack of care. Santander only chased bank A on 5 May. 5 July and 
once more in November 2019. 
- Mr C raised points about Santanders ethos and staff training. 
I contacted Santander to set out why I think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld but 
Santander didnt agree so after considering its response I issued a provisional decision on 8 
July 2021. In my provisional decision I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr C when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mr Cs case?
Mr Cs first payment of £59,998.67 was unusual and out of character and this is why 
Santander flagged it and had a conversation with Mr C. Id expect Santander to ask probing 
questions to verify Mr C wasnt being scammed or at risk of financial harm in relation to the 
unusual and uncharacteristic payment hed requested. 
Ive listened to the calls Santander has provided in respect of this first payment and, having 
done so, I dont think Santander did enough. At no point in the call was Mr C asked what the 
payment was for and in these circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude that relevant 
questions were asked, and an appropriate warning given. Mr C was asked who he wanted to 
pay and was then read an email intercept scam warning, which I set out above, before being 
asked if he was comfortable to continue with the new payment. Whilst Mr C did receive the 
payment details by email this scam warning wasnt sufficient in the circumstances of the 
case. Without knowing the reason for the payment, the adviser was unable to ask relevant 
questions or provide an investment scam warning. 
Mr C volunteered certain information that wasnt requested. He explained that it was a 
large sum of money and he wished to be careful. He said hed done some checks and 
looked at the FCA website so knew the company existed. The agent didnt seem to me to 
be interested in this information and didnt ask any questions at all about the information Mr 
C gave. Instead he said, Done your due diligence then sir, youre comfortable?.
I consider Santander should have asked the purpose of the payment, some information 
about the investment like how Mr C found out about it and the expected rate of return and 
what Mr C had checked on the FCA website. Id also expect Santander to provide 
appropriate investment scam warnings, including the prevalence of fake and cloned 
investment companies and how to avoid falling victim to this type of scam. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by Santander would have made a difference in this case. 
Having done so, its my belief that had Santander asked proportionate questions and 
given Mr C a warning about investment scams he wouldnt have made the payment 
without completing further checks. Mr C was clear in his call with Santander that hed 
checked company X existed. If hed been made aware that investment companies could 
be cloned, I believe Mr C would have used the contact details on the FCA register to get 
in touch with the genuine investment company, at which point the scam would have been 
uncovered. He told Santander that he was naturally a bit careful about making the 
payment. I believe this is why he did the checks he considered were appropriate. But his 
checks didnt go far enough because Mr C wasnt aware that investment companies could 
be cloned or could create fake platforms, and that he wasnt communicating with a 
genuine investment company.
Had Mr C been provided with a warning I believe he would have taken additional steps 
before making the payment  and ultimately wouldnt have made it. Mr C wasnt alert to the 
potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones and provide a fake 
platform. Santander was the expert here and Mr C an inexperienced investor and I feel 
Santander should have done more to ensure Mr C wasnt at risk of being defrauded. I see no 
reason why Mr C wouldnt have taken Santanders warnings seriously if hed been cautioned 
to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding. Ive seen no 
indication that Mr C was so anxious to proceed that he would have ignored warnings or been 
unprepared to postpone the payment to reflect on the matter and make further enquiries. 
The investigator reached a different view and said Mr C had completed an extensive 
search. I disagree. As Ive said above, Mr C was clear in his call with Santander that he had checked that the company he thought he was dealing with existed, but this wasnt 
enough to protect him from a scam of this nature. 
In the call when the first payment was made Mr C also volunteered that he was paying 
company X but the transfer was to company Y. He wasnt asked any questions about why 
this was the case. The adviser also noted it was strange that Mr C had been asked to email 
proof of payment when he was making a faster payment. These points are noteworthy 
when combined with the other facts of the case. 
Given what I have said about the first payment it follows that I also consider that Mr Cs 
second payment should have been refunded  this payment wouldnt have been made if the 
scam had been uncovered when the first payment was made. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr C did enough to protect himself. I think he did. Mr C 
checked that company X existed but didnt know this wasnt enough to protect himself from 
this type of scam. A clone warning appeared on the FCA website in March 2019, after Mr C 
had made payments the previous month. 
Mr C has raised concerns about Santanders efforts to recover his lost funds. In light of my 
conclusions above, it isnt necessary in this case to consider whether Santander also 
exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover funds from the payee banks. But for 
completeness, I consider Santander acted reasonably in contacting the beneficiary banks on 
the day Mr C notified it of the fraud and that Santander appropriately chased bank B for a 
response. The payments were made on 14 and 23 February 2019 and the fraud was 
reported to Santander on 13 March. Fraudsters usually move funds on very quickly which 
appears to have happened in this case. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander should pay Mr C compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. In considering whats fair 
compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of Santanders actions, rather than 
the impact of the crime itself and Ive also taken into account that much of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C has experienced was ultimately as a result of the actions of a cruel 
scammer.
Overall, I think Santanders failure to act has had an impact on Mr C which couldve been 
prevented if Santander had acted as I think it ought to have. Mr C has explained that, losing 
my life savings has caused me untold stress and worry. So, for these reasons I think 
Santander should pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say Santander ought to have done more to help Mr C. 
Had it done so, Im persuaded Mr C wouldnt have suffered the loss of £69,908.67.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and said they had no further comments to 
add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Ive also taken in to account the same considerations as I set out in my provisional decision. After reviewing my provisional decision both parties confirmed they had no further comments 
to add. For the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision (and reproduced above) 
I have reached the same conclusion I set out in my provisional decision. So I consider 
Santander should refund Mr C the amount he lost in the scam together with interest and 
compensation as set out below. 
My final decision
 I require Santander UK Plc to:
- Refund Mr C £69,908.67 less any further sums recovered;
- Pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement. If Santander deducts tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr C with an appropriate tax deduction 
certificate;
- Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman