DRN-2604557
The complaint
Mrs L is complaining Millennium Insurance Brokers Ltd (MIB) didnt explain how much it 
would cost to take out a point of sale loan to pay for her landlord insurance policies. Shes 
also unhappy it didnt tell her the policies would automatically renew.
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs L contacted MIB to renew her landlord insurance policies. MIB gave her 
the cost of renewal for each policy. Mrs L said she understood there would be a discount for 
paying for the insurance policy by direct debit, which the call handler confirmed. So Mrs L 
agreed to pay for it in this way and entered into a credit agreement with a finance provider  
who I shall call C  to facilitate this.
The policies automatically renewed the followed year. But in October 2019 Mrs L called MIB 
to say C had taken a payment from her account. MIB said the policies had renewed in 
August 2019. Mrs L complained about this as she said she didnt authorise the renewal. She 
was also unhappy to learn shed been paying interest on the premiums and wanted MIB to 
refund this.
MIB responded to say it had listened to the telephone call it had with Mrs L in August 2017 
and it said the call handler explained there was a cost for the credit. It also said the call 
handler had explained the policies would automatically renew each year unless she asked 
for them to not do so. Mrs L didnt agree with this and asked for this service to review her 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first explain MIB were acting as an insurance and credit broker to arrange the 
insurance policies and finance agreements. In reviewing this complaint I need to think 
whether its carried out its responsibilities as a broker. Im not able to consider the actions of 
the insurer or C in this decision.
2017 renewal
Before the renewal of the policy in August 2017, I understand Mrs L had paid for the 
insurance policies in full. But in August 2017 she entered into a finance agreement with C to 
pay for the policies monthly. As the credit broker, MIB needed to ensure Mrs L had enough 
information to make an informed choice about what her options were. In particular, Ive 
thought about the regulatory guidelines set out in CONC 4.2.5. So I think it needed to explain 
she was entering into a finance agreement, the applicable rate of interest (APR), how much 
extra it would cost to pay monthly and how much it would cost to pay for the policy up-front. 
Ive listened to the call recording in August 2017 and I can see there was a detailed 
conversation between Mrs L and the call handler about the cost of credit. The call handler 
explained how much it would cost in interest and Mrs L said she wasnt happy to pay this. 
But the call handler explained this was the cost of paying for it monthly. The call handler also 
explained to Mrs L that MIB was providing a significant discount by paying the policy through 
a credit agreement. Mrs L was aware of this cost and also how much it would cost to pay for 
it in full. So Im satisfied she understood what she was agreeing to and chose to take it out. 
She was also told she was entering into a separate contract with C.
In the telephone call, the call handler also explained the policy would automatically renew 
unless Mrs L asked for it to not do so when she received the renewal invitation. Mrs L asked 
if this could be taken off, but the call handler said it was a condition of paying the policy by 
direct debit. Mrs L then chose to continue. So Im satisfied she was aware the policy would 
automatically renew.
2018 renewal
MIB says it wrote to Mrs L in August 2018 explaining the policy would automatically renew 
unless it heard from her. While the policy automatically renewed, it was a new contract. So 
MIB was again required to satisfy the requirements under CONC 4.2.5. 
MIB hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it sent to Mrs L at renewal. Instead its 
provided a copy of the schedule which it says sets out the cost of credit. Ive considered this 
schedule and it doesn't set out how much extra it would cost Mrs L to pay monthly. While I 
acknowledge she could have worked that out, this doesn't cover the requirements under 
CONC. It also doesn't say what the APR was  instead it says "[C] will send you a full 
Schedule confirming your payments and the final APR". Ultimately I haven't seen anything to 
show MIB fulfilled its requirements under CONC to explain the APR, cost of credit and total 
amount payable if Mrs L is paying by finance.
I would have expected it to explain in the covering letter, either how much extra it would cost 
monthly or where Mrs L could find this information. Without this, I cant say MIB has made it 
sufficiently clear how much more it would cost Mrs L to continue to pay the policy monthly. 
Ive now thought about whether Mrs L has lost out as a result of whats happened. From 
listening to the telephone call Mrs L had with MIB in August 2017, I think its clear from this it 
was important to her to keep her costs down. And she was reluctant to pay the policy 
monthly, but she chose to do so at that time because MIB provided a significant discount for 
doing so. But, I think its a fair inference from this that I dont think Mrs L would have paid for 
the policy monthly if it had been made clearer the extra costs in doing so.
So, unless MIB is able to provide anything else to show it made the cost clearer, I intend to 
uphold this complaint and require it to refund the amount Mrs L paid in interest on the 
insurance policy that renewed in October 2018  plus 8% simple interest from when she paid 
the interest until she gets it back.
2019 renewal
MIB also hasnt been able to provide a copy of the covering letter it sent prior to the policy 
renewing again in October 2019. But it has provided a copy of the schedule of insurance it 
provided. Ive considered this schedule and this sets out the applicable APR, the annual 
premium without interest, the cost of credit, and the total amount payable inclusive of 
interest. So Mrs L could have worked out the extra amount payable from this. However, Im 
conscious this is on page three of the schedule.As I said above, I think MIB should have made it clear in the covering letter, either how much 
extra it would cost monthly or where she could find this information. I dont think its enough 
to satisfy the requirements under CONC to simply include this information in the schedule of 
insurance and I think MIB should have done more here to highlight this cost. And I think 
Mrs L has lost out as a result. So I think it should refund any interest  if any  Mrs L paid 
towards the annual premium for this policy too.
I also think it should pay £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused her.
MIB responded and provided copies of the templates it says it would have used when 
sending out the renewal emails and it wanted me to take them into consideration before I 
issued a decision.
Mrs L didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional information MIB has provided, but I dont think it has given me 
anything to come to a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. I 
note the renewal invite template doesnt set out how much it extra would cost to pay the 
policy monthly. It sets out the renewal premium, how much the policy cost the year before 
and how to renew the policy. It also sets out the policy will automatically renew.
The template suggests MIB would have told Mrs L the total figure above includes Insurance 
Premium Tax at the applicable rate but does not include the cost of credit if paying by Direct 
Debit. This will be included in your Finance Agreement which will be sent to you separately 
by Close Brothers Premium Finance.
So I accept it suggests there may have been a cost to pay by direct debit. But I dont think 
this was clearly set out. And, importantly, its not enough to satisfy the requirements under 
CONC 4.2.5. So I still dont think MIB did enough to clearly set out the cost of credit in the 
2018 and 2019 renewals.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Millennium 
Insurance Brokers Ltd to do the following to resolve this complaint:
1. Refund any interest Mrs L paid on the annual premium for the policies that renewed in 
August 2018 and August 2019. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
when she paid it until gets it back. If it thinks that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken 
off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
2. Pay £50 in compensation to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman