DRN-4000242
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lendable Ltd was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr W had two loans from Lendable between January 2020 and October 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 20 Jan 2020 £524 12m £50.61 26 Jan 2021 28 Oct 2020
2 28 Oct 2020 £1,055 18m £71.58 26 Apr 2022 On time
Mr W says he was already struggling with money when he applied for the loans. He says he 
couldnt afford the repayments and ended up in more debt. Mr W adds that he doesnt think 
Lendable should have approved the loans.
Lendable says all affordability, credit and income checks were carried out and Mr W fulfilled 
its criteria. It says there was nothing of concern on his credit file and it verified his income 
before approving the loans. Lendable adds that both loans were repaid on time, and it wasnt 
made aware that Mr W had any financial difficulties.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that Lendable 
carried out reasonable checks and he considered it could rely on the information it obtained 
to make the lending decisions. Our investigator said he couldnt see that the information 
suggested the lending was unsustainable.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that he had already had a similar complaint upheld and 
his circumstances were the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Lendable lent to Mr W. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Lendable needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Loan 1
When Mr W applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Lendable checked his credit file 
and verified his income. These checks showed:
A verified income of £1,541 per month;
13 active credit accounts:
oFive had a zero balance;
oThree were utility accounts with combined monthly payments of £80;
oThere were two credit cards with a total balance of £682 from a £1,680 
combined credit limit;
oTwo loan accounts had monthly repayments totalling £269;
oHe had a balance of £229 on a mail order account with a credit limit of £600;
There was a County Court Judgment dating from January 2015 that had been 
satisfied in January 2018;
No defaults, arrears or late payments on any of Mr Ws existing credit accounts.
Based on the above, Mr W was already committed to around £300 per month in credit 
repayments, excluding utilities. However, Im satisfied Lendables checks did not indicate 
Mr W was in current financial difficulties, nor do I consider it needed to carry out further 
checks. I say that because:
There was no adverse information on Mr Ws credit file aside from an historical 
County Court Judgement that had been settled two years earlier;
He was only utilising around 40% of his credit card limits;
His current credit commitments, excluding utilities, were less than 20% of his verified 
income;
Mr W had almost £1,250 per month with which to pay his regular expenditure, less 
£80 for utilities;
So I find that Lendables checks were proportionate and that it made a fair lending decision 
for loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr W made his first eight repayments to loan 1 before applying for loan 2. I can see that 
Lendable carried out the same checks again and Mr W used loan 2 to repay the balance on 
loan 1. Mr Ws income remained the same at £1,541 and his credit file was relatively 
unchanged with no new adverse information.
As such, Im again satisfied that the checks went far enough and that Lendable was not 
irresponsible to have approved loan 2.
I acknowledge Mr W says this service has upheld a complaint against another lender in very 
similar circumstances, but I need to consider each complaint on its own merits. As it is, I have reviewed the other complaint and I can see that it was only partially upheld  this 
service considered the first two loans were fairly lent.
Based on all the evidence, I find Lendable made a fair lending decision for both loans, and I 
cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman