DRN-3792063
The complaint
Mr D feels he is paying an excessive rate of interest on his lifetime mortgage with Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited. He is unhappy that Aviva wont agree to review the rate of 
interest hes paying or waive the early repayment charge applicable so he can remortgage 
with a different lender. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr D approached Aviva for a lifetime mortgage. Aviva referred Mr D to one of 
its approved agents (who Ill refer to as B) to obtain financial advice regarding his enquiry 
for a lifetime mortgage. 
Mr D was advised by B to take out a lifetime mortgage for £385,125 at a fixed rate of 4.91%. 
Aviva reduced its interest rates before Mr Ds mortgage completed. A lower interest rate of 
4.29% was applied to Mr Ds mortgage on completion. 
In 2021 Mr D complained to Aviva about the amount of interest hes being charged on his 
mortgage. He asked for Aviva to reduce his rate of interest or explain how he can switch 
lenders. 
In its final response letter dated 25 June 2021, Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva set 
out the key factors that influence this type of lending and the reasons why the interest rate is 
charged at a higher fixed rate for the duration. It also explained that Mr D could redeem his 
mortgage earlier to switch to a different product, but an early repayment charge (ERC) would 
be applied. Aviva suggested Mr D seek independent financial advice about this. 
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think this complaint against Aviva should be upheld. Mr D 
disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman. 
During the course of this complaint, Mr D has raised new complaints about Avivas 
obligations at the time of sale. This is a complaint Aviva has not yet had the chance to 
address. If this is a complaint Mr D wants to pursue, he will need to complain to Aviva first 
and allow it up to eight weeks to respond before our service can look into things. I also note 
that our service is considering a separate complaint against B in relation to the 
recommendation made at the time of sale. 
In this decision I will focus solely on the issues raised at the time Mr D raised his complaint 
with Aviva. That being in relation to the interest and charges applicable on his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether to delay this decision in order for Mr D to raise any new concerns 
with Aviva about its actions at the time of sale. But as Mr B has challenged Avivas refusal to 
make amendments to his mortgage now, I think its appropriate to reach a decision on 
whether Aviva has acted fairly in relation to this current matter, to not delay an outcome that 
could impact Mr Ds choices regarding his mortgage now.
I understand Mr D has strong views about this matter. I want to assure him that Ive read and 
carefully considered everything hes provided. However, Ive focused on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the parties, 
and address the crux of the complaint, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. Taking into account the relevant regulation that applies here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses, so its not my role to tell Aviva how to set 
up its lending policies and procedures. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). If Mr D believes Avivas set up is fundamentally flawed and requires changing, he 
would need to raise his concerns with the FCA. My role is to decide if Aviva applied its 
policies and procedures fairly in the circumstances of this case. Having considered the 
submissions from both parties, I find that it did, as Ill explain.  
Mr Ds mortgage is a regulated product. So, Aviva is required to comply with the
regulators rules and guidance. The Equity Release Council also sets the standards and 
safeguards that it considers should be practised by lenders and advisors alike for the 
protection of equity release consumers. Aviva is a member of the Council and has agreed to 
be bound by them. While the Councils rules and guidance are not regulatory requirements, I 
think they represent good industry practice. So, Ive taken them into account alongside the 
rules of mortgage regulation in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in this case.
In accordance with the terms of Mr Ds lifetime mortgage he has agreed to compound 
interest being charged at a fixed rate of 4.29% for the duration of the mortgage.
A couple of years later Mr D started seeing newspaper articles referring to lower lifetime 
mortgage interest rates being available on the market. As such, he feels that the rate of 
interest charged is no longer fair in todays financial climate as interest rates are much lower 
now. 
Mr D wrote to Aviva to say his interest rate was excessive. He asked that Aviva review his 
rate or allow him to move to a different lender. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva not 
to agree to adjust Mr Ds interest rate, just because hes seen more competitive rates on the 
market. Mr Ds interest rate is fixed for the duration of the lifetime mortgage, in accordance 
with the Councils standards. Mr D agreed to those terms when he took the mortgage. As 
such, Aviva isnt expected to accept Mr Bs proposal to alter the mortgage contract terms 
due to a change in circumstances.
The nature of lifetime mortgages means no monthly payments are required; instead, interest 
rolls up over the term of the mortgage, which is repayable on the death of the last surviving 
borrower, or if the (last surviving) borrower moves into long-term care. The mortgage can be 
repaid early through sale of the property or redemption through other means - both options 
attract an early repayment charge.
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an early repayment charge. Im 
satisfied the terms of an early settlement were set out clearly and prominently in the 
mortgage offer. The terms and conditions explain that the plan isnt designed to be repaid until the account holder(s) die or need long term care. The early repayment charge is not 
applicable from 7 September 2034. A clear illustration was provided with the projected early 
repayment charge at various stages of the mortgage. Mr D accepted these terms when he 
took out the mortgage. So, it is difficult for me to say that Aviva cant apply the early 
repayment charge that Mr D agreed to when he took out the mortgage. 
So, when considering everything, I dont find that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman