DRN-2114078
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc didnt transfer funds into his ISA when he requested it to. 
He says it also didnt make it clear that the money needed to be deposited within 30 days of 
opening the account.
Mr P brought this complaint to us with his wife, who also has an ISA with TSB. They are 
complaining about the same incident / issue but a separate complaint has been set up for 
Mrs P because of the two different accounts.
 
This decision relates to Mr Ps complaint about his ISA.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P visited a TSB branch in April 2019 to set up fixed rate cash ISAs with TSB, 
with an interest rate of 1.7% (AER) for the first two years. The adviser set up the ISAs and 
transferred funds from another provider. But Mr and Mrs P say they showed the adviser their 
joint current account statement which had around £60,000 in it. They say they told her three 
times they wanted to transfer £20,000 cash into each of their TSB ISAs. They asked the 
adviser to do this, but she said they needed to go to the counter.
 
Mr and Mrs P say there was a long queue at the counter, so they decided to transfer the 
money another time. But about a month later when they tried to do so, they found out it was 
too late because the money needed to be put into the accounts within 30 days of opening. 
Mr and Mrs P say they werent aware of this. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to TSB. They said the adviser hadnt made them aware of the 30 
day limit and she knew they were both registered blind. They had lost out on interest on the 
money theyd wanted to transfer into the accounts.
TSB said the adviser had noted that Mr and Mrs P would be depositing a lump sum within 
the next 30 days funding window as no further deposits were allowed. So, it was satisfied 
this had been covered with them.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020, where I explained why I intended to uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
TSB had a responsibility to treat Mr P fairly and to communicate with him in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
TSB has provided a statement from the adviser who opened the ISAs for Mr and Mrs P. She 
says shes unsure why she would have sent Mr and Mrs P to the counter rather than 
transferring the money herself. She always brings up the terms and conditions on the screen 
and reads them to a customer. When the terms and conditions are printed, she always gives 
a copy to read before they sign the document. This clearly states information about the 30 
day window. She also says she was unaware of the money Mr and Mrs P wanted to transfer 
from their current account. 
But the adviser made her statement almost four months after the event. So, its not 
surprising that she might not clearly remember what happened. No doubt she would have 
dealt with many more customers in between. 
Mr and Mrs P are very clear about what happened. Theyve told us they are both registered 
blind, and this would have been very obvious to the adviser because they had white sticks. 
The adviser may well have read out the terms and conditions. But these are quite lengthy, 
and I think its likely Mr and Mrs P didnt fully absorb what they were told. Ive seen a copy of 
the application form Mr P has signed, which includes the terms and conditions. This is in 
quite a small font. Mr and Mrs P are only able to read text in a large font. So, I dont think 
they would have been able to read them.
If Mr and Mrs P had realised, they needed to transfer the money into their ISAs within 30 
days of opening it, I think they would have done so. The note the adviser made shows she 
was aware they had a lump sum to transfer. Mr and Mrs P are certain they told the adviser 
they wanted to do that straight away. The adviser hasnt given any reason why this couldnt 
have been done. Given Mr and Mrs Ps disabilities, I think she should have done more to 
help ensure the money was transferred.
TSB says if Mr and Mrs P had difficulty reading the documentation due to poor eyesight and 
had further questions regarding their ISAs, they could have phoned or returned to branch to 
discuss anything they were unsure of. But the crux of Mr and Mrs Ps complaints is that TSB 
didnt sufficiently make them aware of the 30 day time limit (and didnt transfer the money 
when requested to), not that they had unanswered questions about the ISAs. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ps testimony about what happened in the branch. If Mr 
and Mrs P knew about the 30 day time limit, Im persuaded that they would have made the 
deposits in time. The fact that they tried to make a deposit just outside the time limits leads 
me to believe they werent aware of the time limit. TSB says the terms and conditions were 
read out, and this might be the case. But the actions of Mr and Mrs P making the deposit late 
show that they didnt understand about the time limits, So I dont think TSB took enough care 
to explain this important feature of the account. This wasnt helped by being given a copy of 
the terms and conditions in small font when both Mr and Mrs P are blind. 
TSB hasnt given a reason why the adviser couldnt have transferred the money herself, 
rather than asking them to go to the counter. So, I dont think TSB has treated Mr P fairly or 
properly considered his needs.
Mr and Mrs P want TSB to compensate them for the interest theyve lost on the ISA for the 
two year fixed period. Theyve told us that most of the money they wished to transfer has 
remained in an account where it hasnt accrued any interest.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were hoping TSB would allow them to move the money into their 
ISAs in response to their complaint. But TSB made it clear in its final answer to Mr and Mrs 
Ps complaint in August 2019, that it wasnt willing to do this. So, I dont think it would be fair 
to ask TSB to compensate Mr P for the full amount of interest he would have received on the 
ISA, because Mr P could have received some interest on the funds if he had transferred 
them elsewhere. 
I think Mr P is likely to have suffered some financial loss because of TSBs actions but its 
difficult to quantify what this might be. Mr P has missed out on the opportunity of putting this money in his fixed rate ISA with TSB and this has been very frustrating for him. Overall, I 
think it would be reasonable for TSB to pay Mr P compensation of £250 to put things right.
Mr Ps Response
Mr P felt there were important questions the TSB adviser hadnt answered. He questioned 
why the adviser didnt:
Ask him and Mrs P to change their bank account to TSB?
Remove their additional money, which wasnt getting any interest to TSB?
Recommend they top up their ISAs?
Ask why they had so much money in their bank account?
Let them leave her office with so much money TSB would want?
He said any financial or customer adviser is expected to do all this and more for the bank 
and customer. He didnt believe the adviser was being honest.
TSBs response
TSB said it didnt agree it should pay Mr P £250 in compensation.
It said it would only have been necessary for Mr and Mrs P to go to the counter if they 
wanted to pay cash into their new ISAs. TSB wouldnt have been able to transfer money 
from their current account with another bank for them. They would have needed to contact 
the other bank to make this happen. TSB believes this may have been a misunderstanding 
on Mr and Mrs Ps part.
TSB said it was aware the other bank was paying 1.5% AER on balances up to £20,000 at 
the time. Customers were able to have one joint account and one sole account. TSB asked if 
Mr and Mrs P held their current account with the other bank to benefit from the interest.
TSB sent us another copy of the staff statement from the adviser who opened the account 
for Mr and Mrs P. It also said her manager has confirmed shes a valued member of staff 
and there havent been any issues with her work ethic or attitude. Shes an experienced 
member of staff. 
On the balance of probability, TSB believes the adviser would have emphasised that Mr and 
Mrs P needed to add further money into their account within 30 days if they wished to do so. 
She had already arranged to transfer funds from Mr and Mrs Ps cash ISAs, so she would 
also have advised them they could add further funds to their account if they wanted to  
within 30 days of the account being opened. She also said she wasnt aware Mr and Mrs P 
wanted to transfer money from any account other than their ISA account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr P feels there are unanswered questions from TSB. But Id already accepted 
Mr and Mrs Ps version of events. These questions dont make a difference to what I think is 
likely to have happened or how Mr P has lost out. 
Im more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps account of what happened because I think they are 
likely to remember this more clearly than the adviser. I dont doubt the advisers honesty. The adviser was questioned several months after the event and would no doubt have seen 
many more customers in between. Its not surprising that she might not fully recollect what 
was said when Mr and Mrs P visited the branch.
TSB says it wouldnt have been able to transfer the money from Mr and Mrs Ps current 
account with the other bank. But in the advisers statement shes said: I am unsure why I 
would not do the transfer for the customer, looking at the account status, customer has only 
the FRISA which I opened on the date, and why would I send the customer to the counter.
 
Mr and Mrs P have previously commented that the adviser would have been able to assist 
them by phoning the other bank or accepting the deposits by cheque. But even if TSB wasnt 
able to help Mr and Mrs P transfer the money it still needed to make it clear they only had 30 
days in which to do so. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps reason for holding their current account with the other bank is 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. As TSB has commented, their current account 
paid out 1.5% interest on the first £20,000. This would have remained in the account, if Mr 
and Mrs P had transferred £20,000 into each of their ISAs, given it had £60,000 in it. 
The adviser may well be a valued and experienced member of staff. But that doesnt mean 
she did enough on this occasion. Given that both Mr and Mrs P are registered blind, I think 
more needed to be done to ensure they understood about the 30 day time limit. As I said in 
my provisional decision, the application form Mr P signed is in standard font so he wouldnt 
have been able to read it. 
TSB says the adviser wasnt aware Mr and Mrs P wanted to transfer money from an account 
other than their ISA account. But the system notes say: Customer will be depositing as a 
lump sum within the next 30 days funding window as no further deposits allowed... They go 
on to say: They are wanting to utilise Tax Free limit inline with HMRC rules. So, I think the 
adviser was aware Mr and Mrs P had more money to transfer into the ISAs.
While Ive carefully considered both sides comments, they havent made a difference to the 
conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. I remain persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ps 
account of what happened in the branch was more likely. I dont think TSB did enough to 
make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that they only had 30 days to transfer money into their ISAs, 
considering they are both blind. 
I think £250 is fair compensation for the frustration Mr P has experience for missing out on 
the opportunity of moving his money into his TSB fixed rate ISA.
Putting things right
TSB must pay Mr P £250 compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman