DRN-1686279
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a scheduled airline failure claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M booked a holiday on 28 February 2019. He and his party were due to travel in April. He 
took out a travel insurance policy online on 31 March 2019.
Mr M travelled as planned. But while Mr M was abroad, the airline cancelled his return flight 
after it suffered financial difficulties. So Mr Ms party had to pay for replacement flights with 
another airline. Mr M made a claim on the scheduled airline failure section of his policy for 
the cost of the replacement flights.
Mapfre turned down Mr Ms claim. It said the fact the airline had been in financial difficulties 
had been widely publicised in the media in the weeks before Mr M took out his policy  
especially after 19 March 2019 after half of its fleet had been grounded. It relied on a policy 
term which excluded claims where the first threat of insolvency or financial failure of the 
airline was announced before a policy was taken out. As Mr M had taken out the policy 
around two weeks later, it said the claim was caught by the exclusion.
Mr M was unhappy with Mapfres decision. He said he hadnt known about the airlines 
problems until he was already abroad and it cancelled his flights. Hed taken the policy in 
good faith, because they were travelling a long way. He felt Mapfre shouldve put a warning 
about the airlines problems on its website to let potential policyholders know about it before 
they took up a policy. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Mapfre had provided sufficient evidence to show the airlines financial problems had been 
widely publicised before Mr M had taken out the policy. So he felt Mr M wouldve been aware 
of at least the risk that there might be a problem. And he didnt think there was any way 
Mapfre couldve given Mr M a warning about the potential issues with the airline, given it 
didnt know who he was flying with.
Mr M disagreed. He said he didnt know about the airlines issues when he bought the policy 
and even if he had, he wouldnt have thought it would lead to the cancellation of his flights. 
He told us he bought the policy when he did because it was the first time hed travelled so far 
and he wanted to make sure he was covered. He maintained that whatever way Mapfre sold 
its policies, it shouldve made sure information about the problems with the airline were 
conveyed to all its customers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
Insurance is designed to protect against unforeseen and unexpected events. It isnt intended 
to protect policyholders against things they already know will or are very likely to go wrong at 
the point they take out the policy. Insurance policies dont cover things a policyholder already 
knows about at the time they buy their insurance policy. 
So to decide if Mapfre has acted fairly in this case, I need to consider whether I think its 
most likely Mr M was reasonably aware that there was a real chance that his airline could fail 
at the point he took out the policy, around a month after he booked the trip.
Ive looked closely at the evidence Mapfre has provided and Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr M has said. I accept that at the point Mr M booked and paid for the holiday, issues 
with the airline werent widely known about. And it seems very unlikely Mr M wouldve 
booked a trip with an airline he knew could be affected by financial collapse.
But I can see from the evidence that Mapfres provided that there were widespread media 
reports, not just from the UK, but international news channels and popular social media sites 
which set out that the airline was in significant financial difficulties. And that on 19 March 
2019, the airline had had to ground 50% of its fleet. The reports explained that the airline 
had substantial debts; that there were talks to try and prevent its collapse; and that there 
was the threat of its pilots refusing to fly after 1 April 2019. The aviation regulator had also 
directed the airline to refund passengers or provide alternative flights if it cancelled flights. 
So I think these reports made it clear that the airline was in real financial difficulties and that 
there was a significant risk that flights might be cancelled and the airline could fail.
Given the nature of the coverage, I think at the point he took out the policy on 31 March 
2019, Mr M ought to have been at least aware of the real possibility that the airline might fail 
and his flights might be cancelled. So I think he was most likely aware there was a good 
chance of needing to make a claim. 
The policy says:
Special exclusions which apply to section J (Scheduled Airline Failure)
Any loss sustained by you when the Insurance Policy or other evidence or coverage was 
effected after the date of the first threat of insolvency or financial failure (as defined herein) 
of the scheduled airline or other relevant company was announced.
As Im satisfied the threat of the airlines financial failure had been widely announced at least 
two weeks before Mr M took out the policy, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to 
rely on the exclusion to turn down his claim.
Id also add that Section J applies to irrecoverable losses. Irrecoverable losses are defined 
as:
Deposits and charges paid by you for your trip which are not recoverable from any other 
source including, but not limited to, insurance policies or financial bonds and guarantees 
provided by the scheduled airline or another insurance company or a government agency or 
a travel agent or credit card company
This means that before Mapfre pays a claim under this section of the policy, its entitled to be 
satisfied that the losses being claimed for are irrecoverable. So before Id reasonably expect Mapfre to pay out under this section of the policy, I think its reasonable for policyholder to 
show that theyve tried to obtain a refund from the airline or attempted to reclaim the money 
through their bank  by way of a chargeback or Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act. Mr Ms friend paid for the replacement flights. While Mr M said his friend couldnt get a 
refund through his bank for the flights; I havent seen enough from Mr M to show this was the 
case. So even if I hadnt thought Mapfre was fairly entitled to rely on the exclusion clause, I 
wouldnt have been persuaded Mr M had shown he couldnt recoup the money from 
elsewhere.
Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman