DRN-3358470
The complaint
Miss C complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (Inter) handling of her claim under her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss Cs central heating broke down. She made a claim to Inter and it sent an engineer to 
inspect the problem in October 2020. A fault was found with valves that were leaking into the 
boiler pump. This had damaged the electrics causing it to fail. Another fault was found with 
the fused spur, which is used to isolate the electrical supply to the boiler. This was found to 
be damaged. 
Inters engineer thought the leaks had been ongoing for a very long time. This meant the 
problem wasnt sudden or unexpected and so wasnt covered by Miss Cs policy. It was 
suggested this shouldve been identified during work carried out by her previous insurer. 
Miss C contacted her previous insurer. It was subsequently agreed by Inter that it would 
provide cover for the pump issue. However, her previous insurer didnt think its engineers 
were responsible for the damaged fuse spur. Miss C feels she is being blamed for this 
damage when it wasnt her fault. She referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought Inters engineers account of the 
damaged fuse spur was plausible. She says its not clear who was responsible for the 
damage or when this occurred, but this couldve happened some time ago. She says Inter 
hadnt said that Miss C caused the damage. But in a call following its engineers visit it had 
tried to establish how the problem occurred.
Inter subsequently agreed to allow Miss C to cancel her policy without charging the 
associated £35 fee. But our investigator didnt think Inter need do anything more. 
Miss C remains unhappy that her reputation has been impacted and asks for an ombudsman 
to review her complaint.  
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I understand this will be 
very disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss C says the issue identified with the boiler pump was resolved to her satisfaction, so I 
wont be considering this further. My remit here is to decide whether Inter treated her fairly in 
relation to the fused spur issue. 
Ive read the report notes made by Inters engineer after his visit in October 2020. This says:
Approx 30sih yrs old [reference to the boiler].. Been leaking some time water leaked into 
pump, needs drain down pump and valves 3 hours ish. Also fused spur damaged need 
electrician first.
Inter says its approach is for its office staff to speak to an engineer after they leave a 
customers property. This is to confirm any additional details that are needed in relation to 
the claim. The notes from this conversation reflect the engineers records. Namely that the 
fused spur had been damaged previously so it will need an electrician to change it. 
Inters engineer took a photo of the fused spur. This is a square plastic socket fitted to the 
wall, which houses a fuse. I note a piece of plastic is resting on top of it. It appears as though 
the front section that slides across, allowing access to the fuse, is damaged. Our investigator 
asked Inter for more information on the damage fused spur. It says a technical manager 
looked at the photo and thought the fuse looks to be stuck in the spur. The plastic resting on 
top is the handle used to remove the fuse. The manager agreed with the engineers view 
that the spur would need to be changed before the pump repair was carried out. 
I understand Miss C arranged for an engineer to visit from her previous insurer. This was 
after Inters engineer had been. She then arranged for a family friend to replace the fused 
spur as she says the price quoted by her previous insurer was too expensive. Miss C says 
when the electrician attended to do the job a fuse was found on the floor. She had 
vacuumed this area prior to Inters engineer attending and thinks this indicates the engineer 
was responsible for the damage. 
Miss C says if the fuse was stuck in the spur it would have meant turning the power off when 
her boiler was serviced. Her alarm beeps when the power is reinstated. She says this didnt 
happen on any of the previous occasions her boiler had been serviced. 
I understand the point Miss C is making. If the fused spur was broken the power would need 
isolating at the electrical consumer unit. But I dont think its been shown this was necessary 
during previous work or that the power couldnt be isolated to a specific area, avoiding 
switching it off to the entire house. 
Miss C says she was asked if she had tampered with the fused spur in a call with Inter after 
its engineer had left. I understand she was upset because she felt she was being blamed. 
We asked Inter if it had a recording of the call when this was discussed. It says that due to a 
migration of its systems, its been unable to retrieve the call.  
I dont dispute Miss Cs recollection of this call, but I have no way of verifying what was said 
or the manner in which it was communicated. I think its reasonable to expect the fused spur 
formed part of the conversation, as this needed to be replaced. But I cant say that Inters 
agent behaved inappropriately or directly blamed Miss C for this damage. 
In summary the main fault with Miss Cs heating system was with the boiler pump. The fused 
spur allows the power supply to the boiler to be isolated so repairs can be carried out safely. 
The spur was damaged so Inters engineer noted it should be replaced by an electrician 
before the work on the pump started. I dont think its been shown that Inters engineer 
damaged the spur. In fact, the damage couldve happened some time prior to the engineers 
visit. 
In considering all of this, although Im sorry Miss C is upset and feels her reputation is at 
stake, I dont think Inter treated her unfairly. I dont think its been shown that Inter is 
responsible for the damage to the fused spur, and I cant reasonably say it blamed her for 
this either. Because of this I cant fairly ask it to do any more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman