DRN-1950348
 
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim against 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Z took out a buildings and contents home insurance policy on 24 February 2020. The 
policy was underwritten by RSA. On 5 March, Mrs Z made a claim for storm damage  water 
was leaking through the roof and into one of the bedrooms. RSA arranged for temporary 
repairs to the roof to stop any further damage from happening.
A claims assessor visited the property on 23 March and, after assessing the damage and 
inspecting the photos taken by a roofer Mrs Z had got a quote from, said the leak was 
caused by wear and tear. Because the leak wasnt caused by storm damage, and because 
Mrs Zs policy didnt cover wear and tear, RSA declined the claim. But they did pay Mrs Z 
£50 for the delay in the claims assessor visiting the property.
Mrs Z has complained that RSA declined her claim. Our investigator said that there were 
storm conditions (as defined by the policy) on 24 February 2020, the day Mrs Z took out the 
policy. But there werent any storm conditions between then and when Mrs Z made the 
claim. Based on this and the evidence hed seen, he thought it was unlikely the leak was 
caused by storm damage. So he didnt think RSA had acted unreasonably by declining Mrs 
Zs claim. The investigator also thought that £50 was a fair amount for the delays in the 
assessor visiting Mrs Zs property.  
Mrs Z didnt agree with the investigator and shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Z, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
RSAs case notes show that Mrs Z reported the claim on Thursday 5 March 2020. During 
this call, Mrs Z said shed had someone out to look at the leak last Monday which RSA took 
to mean Monday 24 February 2020  the day the policy started. So they were concerned 
that the leak was already present when the policy started and therefore wasnt covered. 
But RSA decided to fully investigate the claim to identify whether this was something 
covered by their policy, or whether Mrs Z would need to make any claim against her 
previous home insurance provider. Given the circumstances, I think this was a reasonable 
course of action to take.Ive seen a copy of Mrs Zs insurance policy with RSA. This explains that shes covered for 
damage caused by a storm, but she wasnt covered for damage caused by wear and tear. 
Its not disputed that there were storm conditions (as defined by the policy) on 24 February 
2020, so Mrs Z wouldve been covered for any damage caused by this storm. But she 
wouldnt have been covered by RSA for damage done in any earlier storm(s) or for any 
damage caused by general wear and tear.
Mrs Z has supplied a quote from the roofer she uses to maintain her roof. The photographs 
taken by the roofer dont show any obvious storm damage. Theres no visible damage to any 
of the roof slates, and none of the slates are out of place or missing. But the photos do show 
that the leadwork on the roof of split and cracked. 
The roofers quote says the lead is thinning in places and is also split. The roofer also 
explained to our investigator that the lead is old and couldve thinned over time. He thinks 
this couldve happened before the storm, but the storm could also have had an effect on this. 
So the roofer cant be certain if this was damage caused by the storm on 24 February 2020 
or not. 
Ive also seen the report done by the claims assessor. This says the internal damage to Mrs 
Zs property has been caused by rainwater ingress over a period of time. It also says there 
are concerns the damage pre-dates the inception of the policy. 
RSA didnt consider the damage to the roof to be consistent with typical damage caused by 
a single storm. They thought the damage was more consistent with gradual wear and tear to 
the leadwork on the roof. And, even though there was a storm on 24 February 2020, Ive not 
seen anything that shows me the damage to the roof was more likely than not caused by this 
specific storm. So I dont think RSA did anything wrong by declining this claim.
But RSAs case notes also show that Mrs Z had to chase them on multiple occasions to find 
out what was happening with her claim. RSA had flagged this as a priority claim but, 
because there was a delay in claims assessor getting the photographs, there was a delay in 
the claims assessor visiting the property. RSA have offered Mrs Z £50 compensation for the 
delay in her claim being assessed. I think thats reasonable for the short delay that occurred, 
so I wont be asking RSA to increase this. Its now for Mrs Z to decide whether to accept the 
£50 compensation or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman