DRN-2794298
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and the way they handled a claim made by a 
third party after he was involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr N was involved in a road traffic accident and he contacted his insurer 
Aviva to report. But, due to cost of damage to his car compared to his excess, Mr N decided 
not to claim on his insurance policy.
But shortly after, Aviva were contacted by the third partys insurer (TPI). The TPI made a 
claim on Mr Ns policy, as they believed he was at fault for the accident. Aviva notified Mr N 
of this, and he disputed liability. Mr N provided a detailed statement as well as images which 
explained why he didnt think he was at fault. These were put to the TPI. But they rejected 
these, providing dashcam footage which they felt showed Mr N was at fault.
So, in May 2020, Aviva made Mr N they were accepting liability in order to mitigate further 
costs. Mr N disputed this, and Aviva treated this dispute as a complaint. They responded to 
this complaint explaining they felt theyd acted fairly by settling the claim as a fault claim.
Mr N and Aviva continued to discuss this. And Mr N wanted Aviva to confirm the cost of the 
claim, as he didnt believe the third partys vehicle had been damaged in the accident. By 
November 2020, Aviva hadnt been able to confirm the full costs of the claim and Mr N was 
unhappy with how long this had taken. In December 2020, the claim was settled and closed. 
Mr N was unhappy with this, so he raised another complaint.
Mr N was unhappy with Avivas decision to settle the claim on a fault basis. He didnt think 
Aviva had considered his testimony or put this to the TPI. He was also unhappy with how 
long the claim had taken to settle. And he was unhappy that the claim had been closed 
without him being given the option to buy out the claim, by paying for Avivas costs. He also 
felt hed been prevented from reclaiming the costs he incurred to repair his car, which he told 
Aviva he would want to do if the claim was settled in the TPIs favour. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for this.
Aviva responded and didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. They thought theyd settled the claim 
fairly, based on the evidence that had been provided and in line with the terms of the policy. 
And they acknowledged the claim had been ongoing but explained this was due to the 
liability dispute. They also said Mr N was unable to buy his claim back. But this stance has 
since changed and Aviva have said they will allow Mr N to do this, as well as put in a claim 
for the repair costs he paid. Mr N remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had 
reasonably considered Mr Ns liability dispute and thought this had been put to the TPI. So, 
she didnt think it was Avivas fault that the TPI challenged this and she recognised evidence 
was supplied which supported the TPIs claim. So, she thought theyd acted fairly by settling 
the claim in the way that they did, as they are able to do in the terms of the policy.
She recognised the length of time the claim had taken but didnt think Aviva had caused any 
unreasonable delays. And she acknowledged thered been some miscommunication on 
whether Mr N was able to buy his claim back. But, as Aviva confirmed this option was 
available to Mr N, she didnt think hed lost this opportunity. So, she didnt think Aviva 
needed to do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree. He maintained his view that he wasnt at fault for the accident. And he 
was unhappy that Aviva wrote to him explaining he had seven days to challenge the 
settlement of the claim, when it took a further six months to quantify and settle the claim. He 
thought this prevented him from seeking professional advice. And he was unhappy with how 
Aviva had responded to the complaints he raised. He thought all of the above showed Aviva 
had acted unfairly, and he wanted to be compensated for this. As Mr N didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr N. Ive no doubt Mr N 
believes he wasnt liable for the accident. Ive read through his detailed version of events, 
alongside the images and sketches hes provided, and I recognise why he feels he was 
following the flow of traffic correctly. So, when he was told by Aviva that theyd be settling the 
claim on a fault basis, I can understand why this wouldve been frustrating and upsetting for 
Mr N. And as there was a dispute with liability, the claim took longer to settle. I can 
appreciate why the length of time the claim took would frustrate Mr N, as it elongated what 
was already an upsetting situation for him. But for me to say Aviva have acted unfairly, Id 
need to be satisfied that they failed to pursue Mr Ns disputes with the TPI. And Id need to 
see there were unreasonable delays caused solely by errors made by Aviva. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached the decision that I have, I think itd be useful for me to 
explain how I arrived at this decision and what Ive been able to consider. Its not my role to 
re-underwrite Mr Ns claim. So, I wont be commenting on who I believe was responsible for 
the accident that occurred. My role is to consider the actions Aviva have taken to ensure 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably when settling the claim. 
And Ive been unable to consider Mr Ns comments regarding the way Aviva handled his 
complaint as complaints handling is an unregulated activity and not one that falls within the 
scope of our service.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Ns policy, which explains We shall have full discretion in the 
conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. So, I dont think Aviva needed to 
have Mr Ns agreement to settle the claim on a fault basis and because of this, Im unable to 
say they acted outside of the terms of the policy when doing so.
But Ive also thought about whether they acted fairly and reasonably when coming to this 
decision. Its very clear Mr N didnt think he was at fault for the accident and he provided 
detailed comments and sketches explaining why. Id expect Aviva to consider these and put these to the TPI. And Ive seen that they did so on 11 November 2019. Unfortunately for Mr 
N, the evidence he provided didnt change the TPIs position. And the TPI returned with 
dashcam footage, which they felt supported their stance that Mr N was at fault. 
As the TPI returned with additional evidence which showed the actual events of the accident, 
Aviva took the decision to accept liability and settle the claim in order to mitigate the costs of 
the claim. And having thought about this, I think this was a reasonable decision to make. It 
was clear the TPI felt strongly that Mr N was at fault and I think it was reasonable for Aviva 
to assume that if they continued to dispute liability, the claim would be escalated to court 
proceedings in order to settle. And as the TPI had real-time evidence, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to decide Mr Ns claim was unlikely to be upheld in his favour. So, I 
dont think I can say theyve acted unfairly by settling the claim in this way.
Ive seen the letter they sent to Mr N confirming their intention to settle the claim and accept 
liability. And I recognise Mr Ns concerns about only being given seven days to respond, 
when the claim remained open for another six months. And I appreciate he says this 
prevented him from seeking further professional advice. But even if Mr N had taken this 
action, I think its unlikely Aviva wouldve changed their stance, as they had full discretion to 
settle the claim in the way they saw fit. So, I dont think Mr N was disadvantaged by this. And 
although the claim remained open for some time after, from the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think this was the fault of Aviva. Ive seen they were in dialogue with the TPI to confirm the 
costs of the claim and it was the TPI that took time to confirm this, which delayed the closure 
of the claim. So, while I understand Mr Ns concerns about this, I dont think Aviva acted 
unfairly. 
Mr N is also unhappy that he was told he could buy back the claim, but it was closed without 
him being given the option. Although Ive not heard the calls which state Mr N was told this, I 
think, on the balance of probability, he was told this for him to consider it in the first place. 
And Ive seen no evidence to show he was contacted and offered this before the claim was 
settled, so I can appreciate why this would be upsetting to Mr N. Ive also seen Avivas 
response to Mr Ns complaint, where they said this option wasnt possible, before later 
confirming that it was. So, I do think there was some confusion.
But crucially, Aviva are now offering Mr N the opportunity to take up this option, as well as 
claiming for the costs of the repairs he paid for himself initially. So, I dont think Mr N has lost 
this opportunity. And because of this, while Im critical of the confusion thats been created, I 
dont think Aviva need to do anything further as Mr N has the ability to place himself in the 
same position he wouldve been if Aviva had allowed him to buy back the claim earlier.
And finally, Ive thought about the length of time it took Aviva to settle the claim. Mr N feels 
the claim was delayed and he feels this shows a poor level of service from Aviva. But Ive 
looked through the claim at length and Ive seen no evidence of any unnecessary delays 
caused by Aviva. I recognise the claim took some time to settle, and in the end, it was 
settled for a relatively small amount. But throughout the claim, Ive seen Aviva has been in 
conversation with the TPI to try and arrange a settlement. The claim was elongated by the 
dispute in liability, but Aviva did this on behalf of Mr N and his testimony. And the delays in 
quantifying the claim were mainly due to the TPI not providing the costs of the claim, which 
Aviva werent able to control. So, I dont think I can say Aviva were responsibly for how long 
the claim took to settle and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr N was hoping for. But I hope it provides him with 
some closure to his complaint and outlines his ability to buy back the claim and claim for 
repair costs if he wishes to do so.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman