DRN-4197551
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Select, 
Platinum and Premier packaged bank accounts. They were sold to him in August 1998, 
February 2006 and October 2009 respectively.
Mr C has given a number of reasons why he says that the accounts were mis-sold. These 
include that Lloyds shouldve told him and his wife to open a joint account and pay for the 
packaged accounts jointly, to save them each paying the monthly fees on their sole 
accounts. Mr C also says that the packaged accounts did not provide better rates on loans 
or give him better credibility lending wise.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr C disagreed so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As only Mr C has brought this complaint, I have only considered whether Mr Cs packaged 
accounts were mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, overall, I 
dont think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold.
From the outset, looking through Mr Cs testimony, it does not appear to be in doubt that Mr 
C was aware the packaged accounts were optional and that he was not obliged to agree to 
the packaged accounts if he didnt want them. So it does appear that Mr C was given a fair 
choice when he was sold the accounts.
The packaged accounts were recommended to Mr C. This means that Lloyds had to check 
that the features of the accounts were a reasonable fit for his circumstances.
When the Select account was sold to Mr C it cost £3 per month and provided a number of 
benefits such as card payment protection and accidental death cover. It also included a £50 
interest free overdraft facility. 
Looking at the earliest available statements, I can see that Mr Cs account occasionally went 
overdrawn. So it seems that the overdraft feature mayve been of use to him. I also note that 
by having the Select account, Mr C avoided a £5 monthly overdraft usage charge that was 
applicable on fee-free accounts, providing he stayed within the fee-free limit of the account. 
So it seems that Mr C wouldve been able to reduce the cost of using the overdraft on his 
account by agreeing to the account.
So from what I can see, Lloyds recommendation that he upgrade to the Select account 
seemed to have been a reasonable recommendation for his circumstances. 
When the Platinum account was sold to Mr C it cost £15 per month and provided benefits 
such as worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. It also 
included banking benefits such as a £250 interest free overdraft facility with lower rates of 
interest overdrawn balances above that amount (up to the agreed limit).
According to the notes from the time, the account was recommended largely on the basis of 
better breakdown cover and because it came with travel cover. And from what I can see of 
Mr Cs circumstances, it seems that he was potentially able to benefit from having such 
cover, so the recommendation seems reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, when the Premier account was sold it cost £25 per month and provided benefits 
such as enhanced levels of worldwide travel insurance, enhanced levels of breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance, card protection insurance, identity theft insurance and home 
emergency cover. It also included benefits such as a £500 interest free overdraft facility with 
lower rates of interest on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the agreed limit) and 
access to other products such as a saving account with a better rate of interest, airport 
lounge access etc. 
Notes from the time suggest that the account was recommended so that Mr C could take 
advantage of the home emergency cover and identity theft protection. And I can see that Mr 
C had a £500 arranged overdraft on the account, and his account was regularly overdrawn 
each month. So it seems that the overdraft benefits mayve been of use to him too.
So taking everything into account, I cant say that Lloyds recommendation was 
unreasonable, and it does seem that Mr C wouldve been able to benefit from some of the 
features of the account. I do appreciate that he may not have needed all of the benefits on 
the accounts, but that doesnt necessarily mean it was mis-sold. This is because it was sold 
as a package so he therefore could not pick and choose what it came with. 
As well as making sure that the accounts were a reasonable fit for Mr C, Lloyds also had to 
provide Mr C with important information about the accounts - so that he understood what he 
was agreeing to. From everything I have seen, it does appear as though Mr C had a decent 
appreciation of what he was agreeing to; what the accounts included; and how much they 
cost. And although its possible that Lloyds might not have given Mr C all of the information 
about the accounts and the associated benefits, Ive not seen anything that makes me think 
Mr C wouldve been put off from agreeing to them, had he been given more information 
about the packaged accounts.
Finally, I note that Mr C says that the accounts were mis-sold because he says that rather 
than sell the packaged accounts to him and his wife on their sole accounts, Lloyds shouldve 
recommended that they open a joint account and take out the packaged account on that 
instead.
However, it was up to Mr C and his wife, not Lloyds, to decide how they wanted to arrange 
their finances and whether they wanted to have sole accounts or joint accounts. Had it been 
the case that they did have a joint current account at the time of the sales, or had they asked 
Lloyds about whether opening a joint packaged account wouldve been a good idea during 
the sales, then I think its reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have explained what their 
options were and discussed whether having a joint packaged account instead wouldve been 
more suitable for their circumstances. But as far as I can see from what has been provided, 
Mr C and his wife never asked Lloyds about opening a joint current account during the sale 
of the accounts, nor did they ever hold a joint current account. 
Furthermore, it was the case that Mr C agreed to the packaged accounts, apparently in the 
knowledge of what packaged accounts his wife held. As such, if Mr C was unhappy with the 
cost effectiveness of having the packaged of benefits on his sole account, I wouldve 
expected Mr C to have raised this with Lloyds at the time or not agreed to the upgrade. But 
again, there is no evidence to suggest that he did. So I think Mr C was able to make an 
informed choice about upgrading his accounts  bearing in mind what Ive said above that he agreed to the accounts in the knowledge that they were optional; and also that he couldve 
downgraded his account at any time, if he felt it was no longer providing value for money. 
And so it is the case that I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible essentially because Mr 
C, with the benefit of hindsight, now believes that upgrading his sole account was perhaps 
not the most cost effective way of obtaining the packaged account benefits. 
As a final point, I note that Mr C has said that a product such as home emergency cover 
could not be used by him and his wife to claim for the same issue. However, whilst it may be 
the case that some of the benefits did provide duplicate cover, there were also benefits that 
werent duplicated. For example, the ID protection only covered the account holder, and of 
course the banking benefits that came with the account (such as the overdraft benefits) were 
only applicable to the packaged account in question. But as already outlined above, just 
because some of the benefits may have been duplicated or perhaps not needed, does not 
mean that the packaged account as a whole was mis-sold.  
As such, taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Lloyds mis-sold the 
packaged accounts to Mr C.
 My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman