DRN-4114533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their landlord policy insurer, Society of Lloyds (SoL), declined 
to pay them for their loss of rent as part of their claim for damage from an escape of water. 
References to SoL include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M own a property that they rent out, which was damaged by an escape of water, 
and they claimed to SoL. They claimed for loss of rent from the property being unoccupied 
but said SoL refused to pay beyond the completion of work to the bathroom as it said the 
property was then habitable.  
Mr and Mrs M wanted to sell their property and said SoL was aware of this but wont cover 
the period of unoccupancy due to the lengthy sale process. Mr and Mrs M said they wanted 
to re-house the tenant until the repairs were completed but their tenant wanted to stay. They 
said they felt they had no choice but to pay for eviction so the repairs could be completed 
and shouldnt be responsible for the period of lost rent as eviction wasnt the only course of 
action available to them. 
They said SoLs decision has put them in great financial difficulty with a loss of £1,750 plus 
council tax per month until the property is sold. They said this was because their claim had 
been mis-handled from the offset.
In SoLs response to the complaint it said it would only pay Mr and Mrs Ms loss of rent up 
until the bathroom works were completed as it said this was the end of the repairs and the 
property was then habitable. It referred to the policy term which it said applied.  
Additional Cover
16. Loss if rent or alternative accommodation.
We will also provide cover, if the premises become uninhabitable following the loss or 
damage caused by any insured event, for:
I The amount of rent due to be paid to you which is lost or
2 The reasonable cost of similar accommodation for your tenant(s), and
3 The amount of ground rent payable to you, but only in respect of the period reasonably 
necessary to repair the premises.
SoL said that to allow the reinstatement works to be completed it was necessary for Mr and 
Mrs Ms tenant to leave. However, despite its offer to pay for alternative accommodation, the 
tenant was reluctant to leave. SoL said in an email Mrs M had outlined the issues they had 
faced with the tenant and asked its underwriters to advise on what steps could be taken for 
removal and queried the costs SoL would be responsible for. SoL said its underwriters told 
Mr and Mrs M their loss of rent would be covered up to the completion of the repairs, and the 
property was habitable. 
SoL said Mr and Mrs M subsequently advised that their tenant hadnt moved out in February 
2019 as planned and so they had started proceedings, with eviction in September 2019. SoL 
said there was no evidence Mr and Mrs M were informed that eviction was the only course of 
action open to them. SoL said it was Mr and Mrs Ms decision to evict the tenant and sell 
their property once the repairs works were complete. And said there was no entitlement to 
further loss of rent under the policy once the repairs completed and the property is habitable.
Mr and Mrs M were dissatisfied with SoLs response to their complaint and referred it to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said SoL acted in 
line with the policy terms as it only provides cover if the premises become uninhabitable for 
the amount of rent due during this period or the reasonable cost of similar accommodation 
for the tenant during the repairs.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review their 
complaint. In February 2023 they said they had in fact suffered a loss of rent while their 
bathroom was still being fixed following SoLs cessation of loss of rent payments at the end 
of November 2022, and there was boiler issue and rubbish left around.
The investigator said there was no previous evidence of a dispute as to whether or not the 
property was habitable or the boiler issue. She said this, and an issue raised by Mr and Mrs 
M about being unaware that their tenant would remain liable for rent when in alternative 
accommodation, would be the subject of a new complaint for SoL to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have brought previous complaints about the delays and handling of their 
claim, and these have been dealt with separately. We cant look at these issues again, and 
can only look at other complaints that have been considered by their insurer. And so our 
consideration of the present complaint is limited to the loss of rent not compensated by SoL 
from when it said the repairs were completed until Mr and Mrs Ms property is sold. The 
issues subsequently raised by Mr and Mrs M will be the subject of a separate complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M decided to sell their property when it had been reinstated following their claim, 
rather than let it out to a new tenant. They have said that if there hadnt been an escape of 
water, they would have a rent paying tenant until the property was sold, and so their loss 
should be covered. I can see the link between the insured water damage and their loss of 
rent, but SoL arent responsible for compensating for loss of rent beyond the period 
reasonably necessary for repairs. 
Once the repairs were completed, or a period reasonably necessary for repairs, Mr and Mrs 
M were deemed to be in a position to rent the property out again. Its not SoLs fault that they 
decided to sell the property and so wouldnt re-let it while this was happening. SoLs liability 
is one of indemnity, and the limit of this is set out in the policy term above. I think the term is 
clear in its limitation to habitability and that as an alternative the insurer will pay for similar 
accommodation for the tenant.
The indemnity provided to Mr and Mrs M for their loss has the intention of restoring them to 
the position they occupied before their loss. In other words put the back in a position where 
they have a property capable of being rented out or sold. The policy term is common to 
property insurance policies and covers the policyholder for loss of rent when the property is 
deemed uninhabitable. SoL confirmed to Mr and Mrs M by email that the period of cover for 
loss of rent was, between the commencement of the remedial works and their completion, 
when the property once again becomes habitable. Uninhabitable means a lack of 
electricity, gas or washing facilities. Once repairs are complete the property would be 
deemed to be habitable and the indemnity for loss of rent ceases. In their response to the investigator Mr and Mrs M said the property wasnt habitable when 
the bathroom repairs completed. I cant see that this point had been raised previously and 
there is nothing within the business file of communications to suggest there was any dispute 
by Mr and Mrs M that the property was habitable. I can see that they received a cash 
settlement for their claim and engaged their own contractors for the work and so SoL does 
not have responsibility for the standard and timing of this work.
Notwithstanding this, I can see that SoL paid Mr and Mrs M for loss of rent from the eviction 
of their tenant until November 2022. Although Mr and Mrs M have said they should be 
compensated until the property is habitable again at the end of January 2023, I think they 
have been compensated in accordance with the policy term, as this was a reasonable period 
in which the repairs could have been carried out by their contractor.  
I appreciate that the repairs to Mr and Mrs Ms property couldnt start until their tenant left. I 
have seen that SoL offered the tenant alternative accommodation during which time they 
would still have had to pay Mr and Mrs M rent, but unfortunately this wasnt accepted. I 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs M for their difficulties in dealing with their tenant who I 
understand refused to comply with requests even prior to this. However, irrespective of the 
circumstances there is no cover for loss of rent for gaps in tenancies, or the duration of time 
until the property is sold. I have seen nothing to suggest that SoL or its underwriters were 
responsible for the tenants refusal to move, or Mr and Mrs Ms decision to evict their tenant. 
In conclusion, I have seen that SoL has followed the terms of the Mr and Mrs Ms policy 
correctly in its payment for their loss of rent and I think it has treated them fairly by not 
extending this beyond the point when the repairs were completed, and the property became 
habitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman