DRN-2636935
The complaint
Mr K says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Alliance Leicester, mis-sold him a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a PPI policy during a meeting in 2008 at the same time as he was applying for 
a mortgage. The policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and he paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr K had to agree to take it out. 
The Statement of Demands and Needs form that records the discussion from the meeting 
shows Mr K accepted Santanders recommendation to take out PPI. And it set out the cost of 
the PPI separately. Mr K signed this form. He then received a welcome letter that started 
Thank you for making a positive choice showing that the PPI was presented to him as 
optional. The summary of application details also confirmed he selected PPI. On the Key 
Facts document section nine made clear You are not obliged to take out any insurance 
through Alliance & Leicester, it made clear only buildings insurance was mandatory and PPI 
was listed under the heading Optional Insurance.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander made it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about whether to 
take the PPI, and he agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had a responsibility to check it was right for
him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his
circumstances at the time. Mr K said he was entitled to six months full pay and six months
half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and 
for up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Mr Ks mortgage 
application shows he had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to use these 
for other living expenses whilst not working, or to protect them for his future needs. Mr K was 
taking on a significant, long-term debt secured against his home. Given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
Mr K if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr K all the information he needed before he decided
to buy PPI. The cost was clear in the Statement of Demands and Needs and the Key Facts 
documentation and the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently 
affordable. But I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
However, it seems Mr K wasnt affected by the main exclusions or limitations. So, overall, I 
dont think better information wouldve changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr K has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman