DRN-2445314
The complaint
Mr C has complained on behalf of his company (M) that Kingsway Insurance Services Ltd 
didn't give M enough information when it sold a motor trader insurance policy.
Mr C is a director of M. And where I refer to his comments those should be read as being on 
behalf of M.
What happened
Kingsway sold M a motor trade policy to insure its business in 2016. The policy renewed in 
2017 and 2018. In 2018 M claimed for the theft of a car owned by one of Ms employees. 
The insurer, which is a different business to Kingsway, turned down the claim. It said it didn't 
cover cars which were privately owned by Ms directors or employees.
Mr C said Kingsway hadn't made this exclusion clear to it. He said Kingsway hadn't ever 
sent M the policy wording which included the exclusion the insurer had relied upon.  
Kingsway acknowledged that it didn't send the road risks policy booklet when the policy 
renewed in 2018 but said it had provided that information previously.
Mr C brought Ms complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Kingsway needed to take any further action. Mr C didn't agree so Ms complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Kingsway is an insurance broker so it sells policies and may help with their administration. 
But it doesn't provide the cover itself nor make claims decisions. Thats the responsibility of 
the policy underwriter, an insurer, which is a separate business to Kingsway. That means 
Kingsway isn't responsible for the insurer's actions. So I don't intend to make any findings 
about the insurers actions in this decision. 
I understand the insurer principally turned down Ms claim for the car theft because the car 
was owned by one of Ms employees rather than M itself. Mr C said Kingsway didn't bring 
this exclusion to its attention nor provide the relevant policy wording which showed the 
exclusion.
My understanding is that exclusions of this nature are fairly common within motor trade 
policies. Thats because, with the exception of customer cars, most insurers I'm aware of will 
only wish to cover the risk for a car which is an asset of the policyholder, in this case M, so 
they won't usually cover a theft risk for something which belongs to an employee. And as 
thats a fairly common term I wouldn't expect Kingsway to specifically highlight that to M. 
Further, as I understand it, when M added the specific car to the policy Kingsway believed 
that the car was in fact a company asset, so it had no reason to point out the exclusion at 
that time. Had M told Kingsway the car was owned by an employee and not M, Kingsway 
would have told M the car wouldn't be covered.
Mr Cs said that Kingsway didn't ever send M the specific road risks policy booklet 
including the exclusion the insurer relied on to turn down Ms claim. Kingsway acknowledged 
it didn't send that document when it emailed M the policy documents at renewal in 2018. But 
Kingsways said it had previously sent the document when M took out the policy in 2016 and 
again at renewal in 2017. We asked Kingsway for evidence that it had previously issued this 
document. In response its shown us its client file which indicates it sent M the relevant 
policy documents when the policy began in 2016 and again at renewal in 2017. So its not 
clear why M didn't ever receive this. And given Kingsway has evidence of sending it I don't 
think its acted unfairly.
But given Mr C's insistence that M didn't ever receive this policy wording, for completeness, 
Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if it hadnt. In doing so I've noted that it 
doesn't appear that M had examined the documents it does acknowledge receiving to see 
what road risks exclusions would apply. Thats because if it had, I would have expected it to 
identify that it didn't have the relevant wording explaining the road risks cover and the 
exclusions that would apply to that cover. And in those circumstances, I would have 
expected it to ask Kingsway to provide that wording at that time. So, given that apparent lack 
of examination it seems M was unlikely to have noticed the exclusion for privately owned 
cars prior to the claim. So I don't think Ms in a worse position now even if Kingsway had 
omitted to send it the relevant document.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman