DRN-4272197
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) have 
asked her to pay their fee for a successful mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
claim shed had several years before.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs H instructed FTR to act on her behalf to check whether shed been       
mis-sold PPI. In August 2022 Mrs H said she received notification from FTR that a claim had 
been successful and so she returned the acceptance form to them. Mrs H said FTR asked 
her to pay their fee for the successful claim, and she found that this was for a successful 
mis-sold PPI claim shed made in 2019 with a lender Ill call H. Mrs H complained to FTR 
as she said it was unfair to ask for a fee after the amount of time that had passed.
FTR said they werent told by H until July 2022 that Mrs Hs claim was successful. They 
said as soon as they were aware of the successful claim they asked Mrs H to pay their fee.
Mrs H wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that FTR had submitted Mrs Hs claim to H and had told her that PPI 
had been found. She said as the claim was successful FTR were justified in asking for their 
fee.
Mrs H didnt agree she said shed had to deal direct with H to establish what had 
happened. She asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in early July 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why.
I can see from FTRs records that Mrs H, in April 2019, signed a letter of authority (LoA) 
instructing them to check whether shed been mis-sold PPI. And in early July 2019 FTR told 
Mrs H that a PPI policy had been found on a loan shed with H, they asked Mrs H to sign 
another LoA and to complete a PPI questionnaire, both of which I can see she did. FTR
submitted the PPI questionnaire and a letter of complaint to H on 10 July 2019.
The agreement Mrs H would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free.
Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide You with the Claims Service
And the terms and conditions go on to give examples of the fee they would charge for a 
successful claim using their claims service.
H acknowledged the receipt of the letter of complaint on 19 July 2019. I can see towards 
the end of July 2019 H told both Mrs H and FTR about two accounts Mrs H had with them. 
H accepted PPI had been mis-sold for account ending *5908 with a gross settlement of 
£1,190. For account ending *4209 no PPI policy had been found. So Im satisfied that FTR 
submitted Mrs Hs mis-sold PPI claims, and for the claim that was successful *5908 FTRs 
fee was justified.
FTR said H didnt send them a copy of the final decision letter until July 2022 but I can see 
the letter itself is dated 27 July 2019 and was correctly addressed to them. So, Ive no 
reason to doubt H sent the final decision letter to FTR at the time, and I cant hold Mrs H 
responsible for FTR not receiving the final decision letter.
From FTRs notes they updated Mrs H in August 2019 about timescales for the resolution of 
her PPI claim. And I can see that Mrs H called FTR mid-September 2019 telling them shed 
been told the amount of the settlement offer. In the notes Mrs H is advised to wait for the 
paperwork and once signed and returned H would send her offer payment usually within 28 
days. The note also says: Client will settle fees once refund has been received.
But I cant see that FTR asked H for any details about the settlement offer until 2022 when 
they submitted a request for information. In July 2022 H sent a copy of the final decision 
letter to FTR. So, Im satisfied FTR were aware that an offer of compensation had been 
made in September 2019 even if they hadnt received the final decision letter from H. And 
Mrs H knew she needed to pay the fee. But I cant see any records between September 
2019 and July 2022 showing FTR asked H for an update on the status of Mrs Hs offer or 
any updates or requests for information from Mrs H about whether shed received her 
payment or not.
The Claims Management Code of Business (CMCOB) is the relevant guidance. CMCOB 
6.1.5R says:
A firm must notify the customer of: (b) any material development in the progress of the 
customers claim; 
CMCOB 6.1.9 (1) says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 (2)
The firm should give updates under CMCOB 6.1.9R until such time as the claim is finally 
determined or settled, or is withdrawn or discontinued.
But I cant see that FTR did this. It wasnt until 2022 that they checked the status of Mrs Hs 
claim. And it wasnt until August 2022 after H sent a copy of the final decision letter to them that they got in touch with Mrs H asking her for their fee, over three years after H resolved 
the mis-sold PPI claim.
While Im satisfied FTR can ask Mrs H to pay their fee for her successful claim, I think FTR 
had been aware Mrs Hs claim was successful as early as September 2019. And by asking 
Mrs H to pay this fee some three years after her claim was resolved has placed a financial  
burden on her causing distress and inconvenience. To compensate Mrs H for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by FTRs poor customer service I intend to ask FTR to pay Mrs H 
£100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and didnt ask for any further representations 
to be considered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim to pay 
Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman