DRN-3551359
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M complain about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M and Mr M have a home insurance policy with Admiral covering their household 
buildings and contents.
Heavy rain fell on Miss M and Mr Ms home in June 2021. The guttering on their 
conservatory overflowed allowing water to enter. Miss M and Mr M say the water caused 
damage to the roof, walls and flooring.
Miss M and Mr M made a claim to Admiral who arranged for its supplier, who Ill call C, to 
carry out a survey via a video call. Miss M and Mr M say Cs surveyor told them during the 
video call that they had a valid claim for the roof, walls and floor and they should get quotes 
to have the repair work done.
C later sent a second surveyor to the house. This surveyor declined part of the claim relating 
to the roof, but said Admiral would pay for the damage to the walls and floor. This surveyor 
said that the guttering was blocked and hadnt been maintained, which is why the water had 
overflowed into the conservatory. They said the roof wasnt damaged, so the roof couldnt be 
claimed under the storm cover.
Miss M and Mr M asked C and Admiral for updates and didnt receive calls back when it said 
it would.
C sent a cheque to Miss M and Mr M, but they hadnt agreed to accept a cash settlement.
Admiral sent emails to Miss M when Mr M was dealing with the claim and had told Admiral 
he was to be the only contact for it.
Miss M and Mr M complained to both C and Admiral about the way both companies were 
handling their claim. Both C and Admiral upheld their complaint in part, saying 
communications had been poor, and that service had fallen short in some areas of the claim. 
Admiral agreed to pay Miss M and Mr M £100 compensation for the extra phone calls theyd 
had to make. C also agreed to pay £50 compensation.
Miss M and Mr M remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to this service. They 
ask for their claim for the roof, walls and floors to be settled in full. They also point out the 
stress theyd had during the claim and that Mr M had to take two days off work to arrange 
quotes for the work that needed doing. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said that he thought Admirals action in 
declining the roof part of their claim was fair, based on the terms and conditions in the policy 
wording. But he said he thought Admiral and C hadnt returned calls when they should have 
and had used wrong procedures on occasion. He said he thought that the total offer of £150 
compensation was fair.
Admiral accepted the view, but Miss M and Mr M did not. They remain unhappy that Cs 
surveyor retracted the comment about the claim being valid and they also said that the 
damage to the internal walls werent accounted for in Admirals settlement of the claim. 
Because Miss M and Mr M didnt agree with the view, their complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Id like to assure Miss M and Mr M that Ive read their evidence carefully and even though I 
havent mentioned all of it here, I have taken it all into account when forming my opinion.
I have separated their complaint into sections for ease of reading and Ill deal with each part 
in turn.
Damage to the property
I understand that Miss M and Mr M have asked that Admiral covers the damage to their roof, 
walls and flooring. 
I can see from Admirals evidence that it agreed to settle the claim for the walls and the 
flooring. I understand that Miss M and Mr M disagreed with this, but I can see in the scope of 
works supplied by Admiral that it clearly says that painting the existing walls is included, as is 
renewing skirting boards and painting them. There is a note in the file also saying that the 
drying out of the walls would be done by allowing the small areas to dry out in the warmth of 
the south-facing conservatory.
The roof of the conservatory is a different matter for several reasons. The second surveyor 
assessed that the water that leaked into the conservatory came from the gutters being 
overwhelmed due to the way it was designed and then maintained. I have seen pictures of 
Miss M and Mr Ms property and I can see that the rear of their house roof seems to use a 
single downpipe to drain onto the conservatory, which then drains both the house roof and 
half of the conservatory roof. 
This would seem to me to mean that the conservatory guttering may be overwhelmed by a 
sudden sharp rainfall, causing water to spill over and leak into the conservatory itself. 
The second surveyor also notes that the gutter had moss in it, and the outlet from it was 
blocked, which the surveyor says shows a lack of maintenance. If I explore Admirals policy 
wording I can see the following terms:
General exceptions
6. Faulty design
Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, inadequate or inaccurate plans or 
specifications, faulty materials or poor workmanship.
AndGeneral conditions
3. Care of your property
You and your family must maintain your property in a good state of repair and take 
care to prevent any accidents
Another part of Admirals wording says that it covers:
the cost of rebuilding, repairing or replacing any damaged part of the buildings 
covered under this policy
Ive said above that Admirals surveyor couldnt find any damage to the roof, so under the 
terms of its policy, there isnt any cover that can extend to repairing or replacing it. So Im not 
going to ask Admiral to do anything more.
Change of position on liability
Miss M and Mr M have said that they were initially told by Cs first surveyor that they had a 
valid claim for their roof. Miss M and Mr M say they should be able to rely on this. Ive not 
been able to see or listen to the video call so I cant comment on exactly what was discussed 
in it, but I understand from the file that the two parties involved in it disagree about what was 
said.
However, Admiral have the right to obtain further information about a claim and re-assess 
the situation as more information becomes available. I know that will be disappointing to 
Miss M and Mr M, but I dont think its unfair of Admiral to do this, even if the original 
surveyor did confirm their claim was valid. So Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything 
more.
Claims service
I can see from both C and Admirals evidence that both companies have acknowledged that 
their claims process fell short of Miss M and Mr Ms expectations. 
Miss M and Mr M had to call Admiral several times to chase their claim up and didnt get 
calls back. Then C sent a cheque to settle the claim for the walls and floor, but didnt tell 
Miss M and Mr M about this which I can see caused some confusion and distress.
Ive said above that the second surveyor found that there wasnt any damage to the 
conservatory roof, so replacement of it wouldnt be covered under Admirals policy. I also 
appreciate that Miss M and Mr M took two days off work to get these quotations based on 
the information they say they were told by the first surveyor. 
An insurance claim of this nature is likely to cause some element of disruption to peoples 
lives. This includes potentially needing to take time to deal with aspects of the claim and 
allowing time for the claim to progress. In this case, Im not persuaded that the time Miss M 
and Mr M took off work is unreasonable given the nature of the claim they made.
Admiral also sent an email about the claim to Miss M when Mr M had asked for all 
communications to be sent to him. I can see how Miss M and Mr M would find this 
frustrating, especially when theyd asked for Admiral to do this in a particular way. 
I can also see that Admiral responded to Miss M and Mr Ms complaints about this, and it 
has apologised for its service and agreed to pay £100 compensation, in addition to the £50 compensation paid by C. 
I appreciate Miss M and Mr M will find my decision disappointing, but Ive looked at what this 
service would recommend in similar situations and Im not persuaded to ask Admiral to pay 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman