DRN-4509763
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has recorded wrong 
information about their mortgage on their credit files.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M took out a mortgage with another lender in 2019. In 2021, their mortgage  
along with others  was sold to NatWest. Mrs M and Mr M say they had no problems until 
2023, when NatWest told them their mortgage was being moved across onto its main 
mortgage system. 
On checking their credit files, Mrs M and Mr M saw what appeared to them to be a brand-
new mortgage with NatWest. They were concerned that other lenders would think they had 
recently refinanced and this would cause them difficulties when they come to apply for a new 
fixed rate deal in 2024. They complained. 
NatWest said it was reporting the mortgage correctly to credit reference agencies. It also 
sent Mrs M and Mr M a letter confirming that the mortgage is the same one they took out in 
2019 with the previous lender, and it sent them some flowers.
Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with that. They referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and explained that the situation is causing them a lot of stress and 
worry.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find that 
Mrs M and Mr M had been negatively impacted by the way NatWest had reported their 
mortgage on their credit files. She also thought NatWest had been reasonable in sending 
Mrs M and Mr M a letter which they can provide to prospective lenders if necessary.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt accept that and asked for an Ombudsmans review. They still 
believed that they would be disadvantaged when they come to apply for a new mortgage 
deal because NatWest is reporting wrong information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms and Mr Ms mortgage is one of a portfolio of thousands of mortgages which their 
previous lender decided to sell and which NatWest decided to buy. While Mrs M and Mr M 
werent expecting their mortgage to be moved to another lender and they had no say in what 
happened, its not unusual for lenders to sell and buy portfolios of loans in this way. The 
terms and conditions of their mortgage remained the same after the transfer.
The transfer did, however, mean that NatWest, rather than the previous lender, had to begin 
reporting the operation of the mortgage to credit reference agencies. Following the 
completion of the transfer in 2023, when NatWest moved Mrs Ms and Mr Ms mortgage onto 
its system with a new account number, it reported the original mortgage as having been 
closed and a mortgage with a new reference number having been opened.
Mrs M and Mr M are concerned that this isnt an accurate reflection of what has happened. 
They took out their mortgage with the previous lender in 2019 and have made the mortgage 
payments each month as agreed. They havent refinanced or taken out a new mortgage 
since 2019  but they plan to apply for a new fixed rate when their existing one ends in 2024. 
Theyre worried that prospective lenders will think, based on what NatWest has put on their 
credit files, that they only took out their mortgage in 2023  and they may be disadvantaged 
as a result.
Mrs M and Mr M are right to say that lenders should report correct information to credit 
reference agencies and should correct any information they get wrong. But I dont think 
NatWest has got things wrong here.
Different credit reference agencies show information differently. Ive considered the copies of 
their credit files which Mrs M and Mr M have provided alongside the data NatWest has 
provided: they show one mortgage account being closed and one being opened on the same 
day in August 2023, with NatWest. The closed mortgage account shows Mrs Ms and Mr Ms 
payment history up to the point of closure, when the new account began being reported. I 
dont consider this inappropriate or wrong and, while I understand Mrs Ms and Mr Ms 
concerns, I think its very unlikely to cause a problem with applications in future.
Should Mrs M and Mr M find that a particular lender does have an issue with the way in 
which their mortgage appears on their credit files, NatWest has provided them with a letter 
they can give to lenders explaining the situation. I consider that was a reasonable approach 
for NatWest to have taken and, in all the circumstances, I dont require it to do any more to 
settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman