DRN-3699391
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited incorrectly recorded her payments with Credit
References Agencies (CRAs).
Mrs M is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs M herself.
What happened
Mrs M has three accounts with MBNA. She says that MBNA have been reporting missed
payments to the CRAs between November 2018 - March 2019 on her accounts, despite the
existence of an arrangement to pay being in place and her account being administered as
part of a debt management charity plan. She says that MBNA were aware of this and were
receiving monthly payments in line with this plan.
Mrs M said that on 29 November 2018, MBNA wrote to her and acknowledged in writing the
offers of payment, which were made to MBNA through the debt management charity. Mrs M
made a complaint and she asked MBNA to update her credit file to reflect an arrangement to
pay, which she says was the accurate status of her accounts during the timeframe in
question, because she did not believe she was missing payments (she was making
payments in line with a debt management charity plan).
MBNA did not uphold the complaint. They said Mrs Ms credit file was reporting the correct
information and after reviewing the offers they received from the debt management charity in
November 2018, it was clear that she was unable to maintain the required minimum
payments on her accounts. MBNA said the offer of payments were not enough to put her on
a formal reduced payment programme, however, any payments that were made were
accepted and reduced her outstanding balance. MBNA said that as the payments were less
than the required amount each month, it would show as a missed payment on her credit file.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She said as the voluntary monthly
payments were lower than the minimum required monthly repayments, they are shown as
missed payments with CRAs. She said that from around November 2018 to around
February 2019 Mrs M missed the minimum monthly repayment and therefore these
payments were correctly recorded as missed payments. Our investigator said MBNA had
accurately reported the payment activity to the CRAs.
Mrs M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In
summary, she said that if MBNA simply left the missed payment markers in place, but also
correctly reported that a Debt Management Plan (DMP) was in existence for the period in
question, this would not trivialise the fact that a contractual payment was not received. But it
would reflect that at least some payment was in fact received and it would have the same
effect of reflecting that Mrs M was taking positive steps to address the debt. Mrs M said she
had not seen any evidence that either she, or the debt management charity were told that
MBNA would not be reporting the debt management plan at all to the CRAs and they would
only be reporting "missed payment" markers and eventually the default.
Mrs M also said that for MBNA to suggest that payments were missed completely (which
could be construed as no payment at all was received) was inaccurate and she should not
be penalised for taking positive action to address the debt and it is difficult to see what she
gained from doing so if her credit files were not going to reflect the steps she was taking.
She said the crux of the matter appeared to be that she would have been better off simply
avoiding payments until the account was defaulted, as the business would have reported
such negative actions exactly the same way.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
MBNA would be required to accurately report Mrs Ms payment status to the CRAs. I know
both parties have opposing views as to what should have been reported to the CRAs. So Ill
look to see if MBNA have acted outside of how I would expect them to report the payment
status/history of the three accounts involved here.
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should or
shouldnt be reported. The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and
it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonable to rely on this, because
when determining a complaint, amongst other things, I am required to take into account
good industry practice and in my view, these principles constitute good industry practice in
this area.
Section three of this document shows If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is
reported (to the CRAs) will depend on whether it is agreed with the lender. As MBNA have
confirmed Mrs Ms income and expenditure at the time it was completed showed she had no
disposable income to make payments to her accounts, then MBNA have said they would be
unable to ask Mrs M to make any payments to her accounts. So they were unable to agree
an arrangement to pay with Mrs M.
Mrs M has shared with our service the letters she received from MBNA about the repayment
offers, dated 29 November 2018. Im satisfied these letters dont show any indication that
they have accepted an arrangement to pay. I say this as the letter sets out she may make
the payment (she has) offered of £(payment amount) per month, as opposed to them
stating they have accepted an offer from her.
The letters also state that the repayment offer you have made will not be sufficient to
prevent us registering a default with the credit reference agencies even if you continue to
maintain payments at this level, which would be another indication that an arrangement has
not been agreed, as an arrangement to pay would usually avoid a default being recorded
(providing the arrangement was adhered to), whereas the letter Mrs M received showed she
would be unable to avoid a default based on the payments she offered.
I have considered that the letter also says If you do not make the agreed monthly payments
we may take further action. But Im persuaded this is in the context of Mrs M not meeting
her repayment that she offered as opposed to MBNA agreeing a payment as anarrangement. This section refers Mrs M to the frequently asked questions, which go on to
state If you miss your repayment we may be contacting you, or your appointed
representative (if applicable) by phone or letter to determine if your personal or financial
circumstances have changed. So Im not persuaded this means MBNA have accepted an
arrangement to pay here.
In addition, before the accounts were defaulted, MBNA sent Mrs M letters which were dated
14 March 2019, which said If we don't receive payment for the full amount or agree a
repayment plan, we will also register a default with the credit reference agencies. So again,
this does not indicate that a payment plan has been agreed with them explaining they would
need to agree to a payment plan (or receive a full payment) to avoid a default.
As Im satisfied that MBNA have not accepted an agreement to an arrangement to pay from
either Mrs M or the debt management charity, Ive considered what the principles say in
regards to this scenario. This would be in line with the unacceptable and token payments
section. Here, it states that If your lender does not agree a reduced or revised payment with
you because the amount you offer to the lender is not acceptable, for example, a very low or
token payment, the account will not be reported as an arrangement or a DMP negotiated by
a third party. Any payments you make will be reflected in the current balance, arrears will
continue to accrue and a default may be recorded.
So because the amount offered was not acceptable to MBNA, this is why the account was
not reported to the CRAs as an arrangement to pay or reported as a DMP negotiated by the
debt management charity. So while Mrs M would like her credit file to be updated to reflect
this, I cant say MBNA have done anything wrong by not changing the status of the accounts
to show an arrangement to pay or a debt management plan.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about her taking positive steps to address the debt and
she would have been better off simply avoiding payments until the account was defaulted as
the business would have reported such negative actions exactly the same way. She also
mentioned the missed payment status appears as if MBNA are suggesting that payments
are missed completely. But Im not persuaded by this and Ill explain why.
MBNA would have no control over how different CRAs display the information they give
them. Im satisfied that MBNA have given the CRAs the correct information. I say this
because Mrs M has provided me with screenshots from several different companies which
extract data from the CRAs even if some of these companies dont appear to be directly
CRAs themselves.
From the second companies screenshots that Mrs M sent me, these show the defaulted
balance and the current balance, which are different. Underneath, it shows a line which has
numbers and a white tick in a green box. The outstanding balance at the time of the tick is
shown and then for every month after that the outstanding balance reduces by either £5
(apart from one month on one account where one balance didnt reduce, but the following
month it reduced by £10) or £12 each month.
So Im satisfied that an outside party would be able to see that MBNA have told the CRAs
that Mrs Ms balance was reducing and therefore she was clearly trying to be proactive in
reducing her arrears in what was undoubtedly a difficult time for her. So I cant agree that
this would have the same effect as if she didnt make any payments and I cant agree that
MBNA were suggesting the payments were completely missed based on them showing the
balance was constantly reducing during the timeframe in question.
Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about there being no mention in the
correspondence or notes that the arrangement would not be reported to the CRAs, or thatmissed payments would be reported in the interim. But as Ive already explained, Ive seen
no evidence of an arrangement between Mrs M and MBNA in place. MBNA have reported
the payment status as they are expected to, showing the arrears (but also reflecting the
payments that she has made). They also told her in a letter dated 14 March 2019 that as
your account is in arrears, your credit file at the credit reference agencies has been updated
to show this. It's normal for us to notify the credit reference agencies in this way.
Ive looked online at MBNAs draft terms and conditions and under section A7 where it talks
about minimum payments. It says missing payments could have severe consequences,
such as legal action against you to recover your debt or negative feedback from us to credit
reference agencies. So while Mrs M did make payments, she missed the minimum payment
to her account, so as such, as per the terms and conditions, MBNA passed this information
to the CRAs.
Mrs M may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the credit reference
agencies to explain what happened during the timeframe in question. This is a short
explanatory note that she can add to an entry on her credit file, to explain the background to
that entry. So anyone who searches her credit report would see the notice of correction and
take the notice into account if they viewed her credit file. Mrs M would need to contact the
CRAs to do this.
In summary, its clear that Mrs M was trying to be proactive at what was clearly a difficult
time for her. But as MBNA reported the payment statuses in line with how they would be
expected to, it follows I dont intend to ask MBNA to do anything else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. MBNA did not respond to my provisional decision. Mrs M submitted further points 
for me to consider.
In summary, Mrs M said while MBNA may not have accepted a payment arrangement, they 
did not state at all that they were not accepting the DMP itself, so the account should have 
been marked as being under a DMP as they did not notify herself or the debt management 
charity that they hadnt accepted the payment arrangement. 
Mrs M said that if MBNA couldnt ask her to make any payments to her account and if it was 
clear from the proposals they received that the accounts would have to be defaulted, then 
there didnt seem to be any reason to wait five or six months to default the accounts in 
question.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about the account shouldve been marked as being 
under a DMP. But as I explained in my provisional decision, MBNA have reported
the payment status as they are expected to, showing the arrears (but also reflecting the
payments that she has made). They also told her in a letter dated 14 March 2019 that as
your account is in arrears, your credit file at the credit reference agencies has been updated
to show this. It's normal for us to notify the credit reference agencies in this way. 
I also said the following in my provisional decision: Ive also considered what Mrs M has 
said about there being no mention in the correspondence or notes that the arrangement 
would not be reported to the CRAs, or that missed payments would be reported in the interim. But as Ive already explained, Ive seen no evidence of an arrangement between Mrs 
M and MBNA in place.
Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about how MBNA should have registered a default 
earlier if it was clear from the proposals they received that the accounts would have to be 
defaulted. But Im not persuaded that MBNA have reported a default outside of the 
timeframe we would expect them to, so I cant say theyve made an error here.
In summary, Mrs Ms response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs M will be disappointed, but I 
hope she understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman