DRN-3159456
The complaint
Ms P complains about the cost of her pet insurance policy with Allianz Insurance Plc.
What happened
Ms P took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz. She said her pets had been healthy and 
she hadnt needed to make any claims on her insurance. But her renewal cost over the last 
three years had increased greatly. After looking online she felt her premiums were high 
compared to what she wouldve paid Allianz as a new customer. Because of her loyalty Ms P 
feels Allianz has overcharged her hundreds of pounds. So she wants a refund of the excess 
shes paid in 2018, 2019 and 2020 which Ms P calculates at around £300. 
Allianz said Ms P had set up an annual policy in 2014 providing cover for life. Due to the 
passage of time Allianz wasnt able to listen to the call when the policy had been set up. But 
it explained the main reasons for premium increases were the pets age and breed. 
As pets get older they are more likely to become injured or unwell. And the premium 
reflected the larger risk. Increasing veterinary fees also affected premiums, as did 
advancements in diagnostic, medical and surgical procedures. Allianz said this had been 
explained to policyholders in the renewal documents issued since 2018.
Allianz said Ms P had been advised of any change in premium, benefit or excess each year 
at renewal. And the premiums shed been charged since she started the policy were correct. 
Allianz felt Ms P had been given enough information to allow her to decide whether or not to 
continue with her cover each year. But itd noted Ms P shouldve benefitted from one 
months free discount when she first started her policy. And itd arranged for a payment of 
£50 to Ms P as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He felt Allianz had been consistent with the insurance 
renewals each year. And he couldnt see that any errors had been made. But he did think 
Allianz shouldve provided more information at the start of the policy in 2014 to give her a 
better idea of how the premiums could change going forwards.
Our investigator could see Allianz had made it clear from 2017 that Ms P could shop around 
for a more competitive policy. And he didnt think Allianzs actions had disadvantaged her. 
So he wouldnt be asking it to refund any premiums or make any changes to her current 
premium. But he did feel Allianz should pay Ms P £100 compensation for the distress 
caused by the unexpected increases as he couldnt see it was fully explained at the outset.  
Allianz didnt agree with our investigators recommendation to compensate Ms P. It said 
Ms P was able to look at alternative cover and the renewal increases werent unusual. 
Allianz felt itd sufficiently notified Ms P about prices rise in its documentation. And it didnt 
think Ms P had suffered any material distress that justified compensation. So its asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its to be expected that the cost of pet insurance will increase each year as the pet gets older 
and the cost of medical treatment gets more expensive. A standard pet insurance policy 
wouldnt cover any pre-existing conditions but some policies, like the one Ms P took out with 
Allianz, are known as lifetime insurance policies. 
This means that, although the policy is renewable each year, cover is provided for the 
lifetime of the pet based on the terms agreed at the start of the policy. The yearly cost of 
these policies can go up significantly at renewal. So its important the long-term cost 
implications are made clear to the customer when they first take out the policy. 
Ms P felt her recent renewal premiums were very high. As a result I can see shes put a lot 
of effort into reviewing the premiums shes paid and the amount that wouldve been charged 
to her as a new customer. But its important to recognise insurers will often offer new 
customers a discount to attract their business. And most insurers now offer a discount for 
online applications as well.
I appreciate the effort Ms P has put into her price comparisons. But as our investigator has 
explained it can be very difficult to get a fair comparison. Its not possible to know what the 
pricing model was in previous years so the method Ms P used to calculate what her 
premiums might have been in previous years isnt necessarily accurate.
Ms P took our insurance for her pets so she clearly wanted some kind of cover. And based 
on what Ive seen I think Ms P wouldve still chosen a lifetime policy for the greater level of 
cover it provided  even if she had been more aware that the premium could go up 
significantly in the future.
Allianz says Ms Ps pets have no pre-existing conditions and there are no claims on the 
policy. So it wouldve been relatively easy for Ms P to shop around if she felt her premium 
was too high at any point. And recent renewal documentation carried a warning that Ms P 
had been with Allianz for a number of years and she might be able to get the insurance 
cover at a better price if she shopped around. The documents also explained how premiums 
can change due to a number of factors, as noted above. 
Its not the role of this service to tell an insurer how much it should charge. Thats a business 
decision and its not something we can interfere with. So I cant say Ms P shouldve paid 
more or less in the past or what she should pay in the future. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Allianz has made any mistakes in the premiums its 
charged Ms P each year. And Ive not seen any evidence to show Allianz has treated Ms P 
differently to how it would treat any other customer in the same position. 
So I wont be asking Allianz to refund Ms P any previous premiums or alter the amount of the 
current premium. 
But I do think Allianz couldve done more to make the long-term potential cost increases 
clearer to Ms P when she first took out the policy. The cost of the policy has increased 
significantly and I think the extent of the rise wouldve been unexpected and wouldve 
caused some distress to Ms P.Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Allianz should pay Ms P compensation for the lack of clear 
information at the start of the policy and the emotional impact this has had on Ms P. I think 
an additional £100 compensation is a fair way to resolve Ms Ps complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc should pay Ms P an 
additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman