DRN-3222034
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund a large number of transactions that 
he didnt recognise.
What happened
When Mr P first approached our service about his complaint, he explained that he was 
staying at a friends house for a few weeks and needed to open a bank account because he 
was due to receive a very large sum of money. He asked his friend to help him open a bank 
account with HSBC because he didnt speak very good English. Mr P later denied living with 
his friend at all and only using the address for his post.
Mr P and his friend visited HSBC and opened an account, using his friends address to 
register it with HSBC. Mr P registered his own telephone number with HSBC. Shortly after 
opening the account, Mr P changed the Personal Identification Number (PIN) for his debit 
card and records show that Mr P registered for online banking. The online banking account 
was confirmed in a letter to Mr P a few weeks after opening the account. 
Mr P didnt immediately change the address hed first registered with the bank, and hes 
explained that he asked his friend if correspondence from HSBC had arrived for him. His 
friend said that no statements for Mr P had been sent. The following year on 7 July 2020, 
HSBCs records show that Mr P changed his address and a few days later his card was 
replaced and sent to his current address. 
The following month, Mr P noticed that he couldnt take any money out of his account 
because it was overdrawn. Funds were then added to the account to take it out of the 
overdraft. Several weeks later, Mr P notified HSBC about the account and the missing funds. 
Mr P also notified the police about his losses.
Mr P told HSBC that large sums of money had been taken from his account without his 
permission. HSBC recorded that the disputed transactions started in August 2019, a few 
months after opening the account and lasted for about a year. Mr P also disputed a £10,000 
payment made to his friend shortly after opening the account and complained that he should 
have been notified about it by HSBC.
Mr P explained that he was living briefly with a family and they were responsible for taking 
his money. He said that his PIN was the same as the code on his phone and he often left his 
phone and card lying around in the house when he was staying with the family. He thought it 
was possible that the PIN on his phone was known to the family and they could use it and 
his card to make the transactions. He later changed his story and denied ever living with 
them. 
Mr P denied making any internet-based transactions because he didnt know how to do it. 
He also said he made a payment using his fingerprint for a member of the family, but they 
took more from the account than he was told. Mr P said that due to drinking, he didnt keep 
his card secure and claimed that members of the family used his card when he was asleep.
Mr P asked HSBC for a refund of the disputed transactions and once HSBC had looked into 
the issue, they declined to make any refunds. Mr P went on to complain to HSBC about this, 
but HSBC confirmed that they wouldnt make any refunds, explaining that they couldnt find a 
point of compromise for Mr Ps PIN when the first disputed transaction took place at an 
Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
HSBC pointed out that the disputed transactions had taken place over two different debit 
cards and that certain online transactions had required the confirmation of a security code 
that was sent to Mr Ps mobile phone. HSBC also thought that because Mr P had been using 
his online banking a month before he reported the disputed transactions to them, he could 
have reported the issue to them much earlier than he did. HSBC believed Mr P had opened 
the account for someone else and closed his account because hed breached the terms and 
conditions.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked into 
by one of our investigators who thought that it was reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr P liable 
for the transactions. It was pointed out that this was Mr Ps sole account, so he would have 
been using it to draw money from and it was unlikely that Mr P wasnt aware of what was 
happening with his account. Mr P had opportunity to check the balance on his account  
even if he wasnt seeing his statements.
Our investigator didnt think that HSBC failed to notify Mr P about the larger transactions 
because the biggest transfer from the account happened just after it was opened with a 
much larger sum, so wouldnt have been seen as unusual. She thought the other 
transactions were of much smaller amounts and wouldnt have been seen as suspicious by 
HSBC.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to deny making these 
payments. He wanted to know the address the online deliveries were made. He confirmed 
hed allowed someone else to use his account when sending money  but they took more 
than hed agreed to. Mr P explained that he hadnt made any online purchases because he 
didnt know how. He stated that some days there were multiple transactions at the same 
merchant which werent him. Mr P told our service that he didnt have access to his 
statements.
Mr Ps complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. I wanted to confirm how 
long Mr P was living with the family and hes since confirmed he never lived with them, 
despite saying that he did live with them when he first came to our service with his 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr P liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
HSBC have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were entered for the 
disputed card present transactions or the card details were entered for online transactions. 
Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were authenticated.Consent refers to the way in which HSBC and Mr P agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, HSBC agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. For online transactions  where the correct card details and 
relevant security details are entered, HSBC also accept this is a genuine transaction from 
the account holder. Because HSBC have shown the correct information was entered or 
devices used, Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for HSBC to hold Mr P 
responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
Mr P has explained that he didnt have access to his account which is why he wasnt aware 
of the problems until a year later. He told our service he stayed with the family for only a 
relatively short period of time and then took till the following year to change the 
correspondence address with HSBC. Mr P has since changed his version of events to say 
he never lived with them at all. During the time his friends address was still registered with 
HSBC, Mr P asked him if any correspondence had been sent to him  and his friend always 
denied receiving anything. 
This account was the only one used by Mr P and hed received a substantial amount of 
money into it. It seems to me that Mr P would have been interested in how it was being used 
and from what Mr P has told our service, he was aware that he was due statements because 
he asked his friend about them on several occasions.
So, its unclear to me why Mr P didnt use other methods to access his account, including 
branch visits, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) statements or online banking which Mr P 
registered shortly after opening the account. I understand Mr P had difficulties with the 
English language, but other methods to check his account were available to him. 
Mr P first told our service that other members of the household could have used his card and 
obtained his PIN because it was the same one he used for his phone. He also explained that 
he was sometimes accompanied by them when he was using the card at an ATM. The first 
transaction that Mr P disputed with HSBC was recorded a few months after opening the 
account. He later said he hadnt lived with them. So, I find it difficult to understand how Mr P 
allowed his debit card to be used by the family without his knowledge because by the time of 
the first disputed transaction  hed either moved out some time earlier or according to his 
latest confirmation  he never lived with them. Of course, he may well have been visiting 
them, but for the amount of disputed transactions and the lengthy period of time they took 
place over, I think it unlikely Mr P wasnt aware of something going on with his card. 
It's also apparent from Mr Ps explanation that he allowed other persons to use his account, 
including making a transfer using his mobile phone  something which he said he wasnt 
able to do himself. But, HSBCs records show he registered for online banking and the only 
phone number linked to the account was Mr Ps. Thats the same one he registered with our 
service. What that means here is that Mr P had the ability to make payments and operate his 
account from the app on his phone, so I dont think he would have been unaware of what 
was going on with his account. Hes said the transfer of the funds was increased without his 
knowledge, but as he enabled the transaction using his own phone, hes liable for the 
payment, even if he wasnt aware of the actual amount. Mr P stated he couldnt use the 
internet for transactions, but the evidence of online payments would seem to indicate he had 
some knowledge, even if he wasnt overly familiar with the process.
Mr P specifically mentioned a £10,000 payment made to his friend which he says he didnt 
authorise. I asked HSBC for more detail about this payment and their records show it was 
made using mobile banking. In order for this payment to be set up and be sent, the user 
would need access to Mr Ps phone and all the security login credentials linked to the account. Mr P has now denied ever living with his friend and theres no explanation how 
someone could have gotten all the details to use the mobile banking app. I appreciate Mr P 
said the family could have seen him use a code to unlock his phone, but unless Mr P gave 
the other login details to them, I think it unlikely they would have been able to obtain the 
additional codes to access the mobile banking app without Mr P realising. If Mr P allowed 
others to use his account, then he would be again liable for those transactions. 
It's apparent from Mr Ps testimony that other people were using his account, including 
setting up payments to other merchants, but I dont think this was done without some 
knowledge of Mr P  even if he only provided access to his account details, as evidenced by 
the online transfer he made on behalf of a friend. By allowing others to use his account, hes 
responsible for the transactions they make. I understand Mr P wanted to know where some 
deliveries were made to, but I dont think thats relevant here because the issue for me to 
decide is whether Mr P is responsible for the authorisation of the transactions and not where 
they were delivered to.
For someone else to use his debit card to make ATM withdrawals, they would have needed 
to obtain his card, use it and replace it multiple times over several months without his 
knowledge  something I find unlikely, particularly now hes told us he never stayed with the 
family he thinks responsible for the disputed transactions.
A lot of the disputed transactions needed to be confirmed with One Time Passcodes (OTPs) 
and because HSBC only had Mr Ps mobile phone registered on their account, these codes 
would have been sent to the phone. So, it seems unlikely that Mr P would be unaware of 
them. I could understand if there were only the odd OTP that he didnt see because its 
plausible that his friend could have obtained them from his phone if he was visiting, but there 
were quite a few over several months and this makes it, in my opinion, unlikely that multiple 
OTPs could be intercepted without some knowledge by Mr P.
Mr P told our service that hed only had one card for his account, but HSBCs records show a 
replacement card was sent to his new address a few months before he notified them of the 
losses on his account. The first card continued to be used, although the attempts were 
declined. Its possible that the card was being used by someone else at this point, but as it 
was the only card held by Mr P, I find it unlikely he wasnt aware it was missing and hed be 
liable for the transactions made using it because he would have given effective authority to 
whoever was using the card. If he thought someone else was using it without his permission 
 the terms of his account were to notify HSBC about it straight away, but this didnt happen 
for several months until the account was effectively emptied. The disputed transactions 
continued to be made using the second card, so it seems unlikely that Mr Ps second card 
was again obtained by others to use without his knowledge. So, I think it unlikely he wasnt 
aware of how both cards were being used.
At the point the account went overdrawn, Mr P topped it up with a small payment to bring the 
account out of the overdraft. So, at that point he was aware of the balance, but still took 
about another month before reporting the losses to HSBC. 
HSBC closed Mr Ps account because they werent happy with how it was being used and 
they sent him the outstanding balance by cheque. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for 
the account which gives both parties the ability to close the account. As long as HSBC follow 
the agreed terms and conditions when they close the account, we wouldnt generally 
overturn this, unless it caused unfairness to the account holder. I think in this case, even 
though HSBCs decision to end their relationship with Mr P was based on a wrong 
assumption (that hed opened the account for someone else), I think if theyd based it on 
how the account was operated, theyd have likely come to the same decision and still closed 
the account as Mr P was still in breach of the terms by allowing others to use his account.Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely that Mr P wasnt aware of the use of his 
account, even if he didnt specifically authorise each transaction and the amount he thought 
would be taken. Ive reviewed all the evidence from both parties and my objective 
conclusions are that I think Mr P was more likely than not responsible for making these 
transactions or allowing others to use his account. In the circumstances I dont think it would 
be fair to expect HSBC to repay the disputed transactions and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman