DRN-1510617
 
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a store 
card in May 1995.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In 1995 Mrs S applied for a store card by completing an application form while she was 
shopping. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs S signed and I can see that theres a YES 
next to the statement that reads Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase 
Protection Insuranceplease debit my account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice so Im happy the PPI was optional and that Mrs S chose to take it out. If she 
hadnt wanted to take out the PPI, I think Mrs S couldve left this section blank or chosen not 
to sign the agreement. And Ive noted that she didnt take out two other optional features  
purchasing card protection or adding an additional card holder  she left these sections 
blank. So I think Mrs S knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this was a 
monthly policy, Mrs S couldve cancelled it at any time if she no longer wanted it.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said, but this is unsurprising given the sale of 
the policy took place more than 20 years ago. Given the information I do have, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think AXA advised Mrs S to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S  this was something she needed to 
decide for herself. But it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she 
could decide if she wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.I dont know exactly what information Mrs S received about the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I were to accept that Mrs S wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mrs S was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health.
Mrs S couldnt recall whether her employer wouldve paid her any sick pay if she was away 
from work due to an accident or illness - but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any 
employment benefits so couldve proved useful to Mrs S if she had an accident, became ill or 
lost her job. She could also have benefitted from life cover and price and purchase 
protection.
Mrs S told us she couldve relied on her family for help. Whilst I understand the point she 
seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that her family wouldve been in any position to 
assist at some unknown point in the future.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs S had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost doesnt seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mrs S. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still have taken 
out the cover if hed been properly informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman