DRN-3905762
The complaint
Mr I has complained that the advice The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
gave him to transfer his pension from his defined benefits occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a section 32 plan was unsuitable.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Is complaint. He sent his assessment of it to both 
parties on 11 January 2023. The background and circumstances to the complaint were set 
out in his assessment. But to recap, in 1992 the firm (a firm that Royal London has 
subsequently taken over) advised Mr I to transfer from his OPS to a section 32 buy-out 
policy. The transfer value was around £1,950. This represented three years of accrued 
service in the scheme. 
Personal information gathered at the time recorded that Mr I was in his early twenties and 
was employed with an income of between £5,000 - £10,000 a year. 
In January 2021 Mr Is representative complained about the suitability of the advice Mr I had 
been given to transfer. The representative said Mr I was told that transferring would provide 
him with a better pension in retirement. 
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to us. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr I was advised some 30 years 
ago, and hed considered the complaint against the industry standards that were in place at 
the time. 
The investigator said there was limited documentation available from the time the advice had 
been given. But that a common motivation for transferring out of a defined benefit scheme
was to potentially improve on the scheme benefits. He said the adviser would have needed 
to consider Mr Is circumstances, and whether he had the capacity to risk transferring his 
pension in order to seek a better performance from a personal pension arrangement.
The investigator said the adviser had to compare the illustration of future income from the 
proposed plan with those from the OPS. He noted in the illustration provided by Royal 
London it projected pension per year figures at rates of return of 8.5% and 13%. The 
investigator said the economic climate had changed significantly since the 1980s and 1990s. 
He said expected investment returns then were generally higher than were realistically 
expected today. But he said the rates used were the regulators prescribed growth rates at 
the time.
The investigator said at the time of the transfer Mr I was in his early twenties with many 
years to go before retirement. He said investors could generally afford to have more 
exposure to investment risk the longer the term they had to invest. He said investments were 
less susceptible to dips in the stock market if they were held over the longer term.
The investigator said Mr I had only accrued three years worth of benefits in the OPS.
He noted the section 32 plan included some guarantees. The investigator thought the advice 
to transfer a relatively small sum, at such a young age, and at a time when predicted growth 
rates favoured a transfer, was suitable advice.
Mr Is representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that 
Royal Londons primary duty was to provide comprehensive and sufficient advice. It said Mr I 
wasnt made aware that he had a final salary scheme and the advantages of that scheme. It 
said that in failing to provide proper advice Royal London had evidenced negligence. 
The representative said although it agreed a common motivation to transfer was to improve 
on the existing pension benefits, it disagreed that it was reasonable for Royal London to 
believe that Mr I could be better off by transferring. It said although the rates of return may 
have been achievable at the time, they werent guaranteed. The OPS would have had 
consistent growth in the absence of any external performance risks, it wasnt subject to 
external factors and was guaranteed. It said the recommended scheme was subject to 
charges which wasnt the case with the OPS. 
The representative said that although Mr I was in his early 20s, single and with no 
dependents, that didnt mean he was in a position to make decisions based on limited 
information or take risks without being fully informed. It said Royal London would have 
known that Mr Is circumstances would change in the future due to different stages of life. So 
correctly advising and planning was important. 
Royal London didnt provide any further evidence or arguments for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
The advice was given over 30 years ago. And there is limited documentation available to 
show what was discussed and what information was given to Mr I. As the investigator said, 
the advice to transfer needs to be considered against the standards that were in force at the 
time that the advice was given. However ultimately, the firms primary responsibility was to 
provide advice that was suitable taking into account Mr Is particular circumstances.
The illustration that is available from the time showed the projected pensions at age 60 at 
the two rates of return of 8.5 and 13%. The figures provided at these rates were £2,560 and 
£14,700. These amounts included a 50% spouses pension and increases in payment at 3%. 
It said the GMP at date of leaving the scheme was £118, and this would increase to £2,646 
at State Pension age.
Information from the OPS showed the benefits accrued at the date of leaving the scheme 
were a pension of £505 per annum. And a lump sum of £1,516. The pension amount 
included the GMP of £118. These figures were subject to revaluation up until Mr Is 
retirement date.
If these benefits were revalued up until age 60 they would have provided a pension of 
approximately £4,400 and a lump sum of £9,700 (using fixed rate revaluation on the GMP 
and assuming the additional pension increased in line with the Retail Price Index. I think it 
was reasonable for an adviser to assume this as around 5% at that time). For comparative 
purposes, if the lump sum and pension were combined and expressed as equivalent annual 
pension they would be broadly equivalent to a pension of £5,000 to £5,500. Whilst there are a number of assumptions and the figures arent exactly comparable, I think 
the significant point here is that even taking into account some leeway in the figures, the 
pension from the OPS sat around mid-range of the potential figures provided in the 
illustration for the section 32 plan, and well below the figure at the higher rate. In my opinion 
it would have been reasonably understood that the transfer provided a reasonable 
opportunity in financial terms to improve on the benefits provided by the OPS. And at worst, 
the section 32 plan guaranteed to provide the GMP at State Pension Age of £2,646.
Mr I was in his very early twenties. He had a long time to retirement, and I think he would 
reasonably have expected to build up some more pension provision between the date he 
transferred this pension and his retirement date. I dont think this would have been expected 
to be the only pension he relied on at retirement. And as the investigator said, the longer 
term to retirement also meant that he was able to ride out any dips in investment 
performance. 
I accept what Mr Is representative has said about the benefits from the OPS being 
guaranteed, whereas those from the section 32 plan depended on investment performance. 
However, taking all the circumstances into account as I have described above, I dont think 
the transfer would have appeared to have been a particularly risky proposition at the time it 
was arranged. I think Mr I had the capacity to accept some risk in his circumstances, the 
transfer was a reasonable financial proposition, and I dont think it would have been 
expected that the three years of service and pension arising from it would have made up the 
majority of Mr Is pension provision at retirement. Taking all this into account, in my opinion 
the advice to transfer wasnt unsuitable given all the circumstances at the time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman