DRN-3837430
The complaint
Mr D complains about charges applied at the end of his hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes Benz Finance (Mercedes).
What happened
In June 2019 Mr D took out a hire agreement for a new van. The agreement was to last for 
three years, with an annual permitted mileage of 12,000 miles.
On 13 June 2022 the van was inspected and returned to Mercedes. Mr D has told us that the 
inspector said he could see no damage to the vehicle  inside or out. Mr D said he was 
given documentation confirming this. 
On 30 June 2022 Mercedes sent Mr D an invoice for charges totalling £1,424.23. The 
breakdown of these charges was as follows:
MOT £54.95
Front bonnet chipped £178.60
Nearside front door chipped £22.40
Nearside front mirror cover scratched £15.27
Nearside rear quarter panel poor previous £178.60
Offside front door chipped £22.40
Offside front door dented £19.61
Offside rear quarter panel poor previous £178.60
Offside sliding door chipped £178.60
Rear bumper damaged £15.27
Nearside rear light cluster cracked £101.66
Nearside rear door handle light damaged £69.31
Nearside rear door poor previous £178.60
Nearside rear door lower hinge missing £210.36
Mr D disputed these charges. He said he wasnt happy that the van had been inspected so 
long after it was returned to Mercedes  and that some of the damage could have happened 
after it was collected. He said he felt he was being charged almost as much as if hed bought 
the van outright, and that its low mileage should have been taken into consideration.
Mercedes said all the charges theyd applied were fair. They said they didnt offer incentives 
for customers returning vehicles with less than the full contracted mileage, so they were 
unable to take the vans lower mileage into consideration.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to us. He said hed had the front 
bumper replaced because it had been scuffed - and that hed had two rear panels 
professionally repainted by a reputable body repair workshop. He felt these had been 
repainted to as-new condition.
Mr D said he had no reason to remove the fixing from the door hinge  and that this must 
have been missing when the van was supplied to him. He said the damage to the door 
handle and brake light hadnt happened during the time hed had the van. He felt chips in the 
paintwork should be considered general wear and tear. He said the van was returned with 
very low mileage and that it hadnt been due for MOT-testing.  
Our investigator noted that Mercedes Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) were explained in 
the hire agreement. He compared the photos of the items detailed in the inspection report to 
the VRS, as well as the industry standard - the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
The investigator said he thought most of the charges had been raised fairly, in line with the 
VRS and BVRLA guidance. But he didnt think it was fair for Mercedes to charge for the 
previous repairs to the rear quarter panels, or for the dents to the offside front door. He said 
he thought Mercedes should remove those charges.
The investigator asked both parties whether they agreed with his recommendations as to 
how the complaint should be resolved. As neither party responded, the case has come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider this complaint.
Mr D feels it wasnt fair for Mercedes to invoice him for damage discovered some time after 
the van was collected from him. Hes told us that no damage was noted by the agent who 
collected it. Ive considered this point.
Mercedes have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mr D signed on 12 June 2019. Ive 
read this carefully. Ive seen that it includes a section headed Vehicle Return Standards, 
which sets out the standard Mercedes expect the vehicle to be in when its returned at the 
end of the hire period. It states:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards.
When the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried 
out by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you 
will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
So, Im satisfied that Mercedes had provided Mr D with a clear explanation of how theyd 
assess any damage to the van at the end of the hire period. 
Mr D has shown us a copy of the document he was given when the van was collected, which 
Ive reviewed. Ive seen that this document comments on basic features that would affect the 
safety and legality of the van, such as the drivers seatbelt, windscreen, mirrors, and tyres. 
But Ive seen nothing in that document about the condition of the bodywork, mirror housing, 
light housing, or other fittings. Ive seen that it says at the bottom of the document:All vehicles are inspected on return to the owner and additional damage will be promptly 
notified.
I find this to be clear - Im not persuaded that Mercedes treated Mr D unfairly here. 
Ive seen a copy of the estimate for damages prepared at the time the van was inspected by 
Mercedes agent, dated 28 June 2022, which includes photos of each area of damage. Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Mercedes to apply each charge, in line 
with the VRS set out in the hire agreement.
Ive also taken into account the BVRLA fair wear and tear guide for light commercial 
vehicles, which I consider set out good industry practice when a hire vehicle is returned. 
MOT 
The BVRLA guide says:
The period remaining on the vehicles relevant test certificate at end of lease may be 
stipulated in the lease.
The VRS say:
The vehicle must have a valid test certificate, which has at least 6 months unexpired 
cover.
Mr D told us that the van wasnt due for MOT-testing until after it was collected. Ive seen 
evidence showing it was first registered on 13 June 2019, which means it was legally 
required to have an MOT test by the third anniversary of that date. So, when the van was 
collected from Mr D on 13 June 2022, Im satisfied that it had already become due for MOT-
testing.
For these reasons, I consider it fair and reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for the 
MOT test. 
Chipped paintwork
The VRS say:
all cab and body exterior panels and interior trims to be free of damage.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect this three-year old commercial vehicle to be 
completely free of any damage. So, Ive also considered what the BVRLA guide says about 
this:
Chips of 8mm and less in diameter are acceptable provided the base metal or material 
is not exposed or rusted.
Maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge, and eight chips on any 
forward-facing panel.
Repaired chips outside the fair wear and tear tolerance are acceptable provided the 
work is completed to a professional standard by repairers who can provide full warranty 
on their work.
(i) BonnetIve seen two photos of the bonnet, which clearly show more than eight chips in the 
paintwork. It appears some attempt has been made to touch these up. But I dont 
consider this repair to have been completed to a professional standard, because I can 
see the touched-up areas of paint arent smooth and overlap the edges of the damaged 
areas.
(i) Doors
Ive seen a photo of the nearside front door showing a chip on the edge, close to the 
swage line.
Ive seen a photo of the offside front door showing a larger chipped area, again on the 
edge of the door close to the swage line. 
Ive seen a photo of the offside sliding door, showing a chip near to the edge of the door. 
Ive seen nothing in the photos to give any indication of the size of these chips. But I 
dont consider the size to be relevant because I can see that the base metal is exposed 
on all three doors. 
Im satisfied that the chips to the paintwork on the bonnet and doors fall outside the BVRLA 
guidelines for fair wear and tear on a light commercial vehicle such as this one. So, I think it 
was fair and reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for this damage. 
Dented bodywork  offside front door
Ive examined the two photos of the offside front door carefully. One of these photos includes 
a striped card positioned next to the door. Im unable to see any evidence of a dent. So, Im 
not persuaded that it was fair for Mercedes to charge Mr D for this. 
Poor previous repairs
The VRS say the body and paint should be:
Returned in the same colour as originally supplied or white (to a good industry 
standard).
The BVRLA guide says:
Obvious evidence of poor repair such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish and ill-matched paint is not acceptable.
(i) Rear quarter panels
Ive seen seven photos of the rear quarter panels, which Ive examined closely. I found it 
difficult to assess the condition of the paintwork due to reflections on the bodywork. 
I havent seen evidence of a previous poor repair in these areas. So, Im not persuaded 
that it was fair for Mercedes to charge Mr D for this. 
(ii) Nearside rear door
Ive seen photos showing this vehicle has a pair of rear doors. I can clearly see a 
difference in the paintwork on the left-hand door - it doesnt match the one on the right. I 
consider there to be obvious evidence of a poor repair. Im satisfied that the standard of this repair falls outside the BVRLA guidelines. So, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for this. 
Other damage
The VRS say the vehicle must be:
Free from any broken or damaged items and with no missing components or parts 
which were fitted as standard equipment...
Ive considered each of the other areas of damage with this in mind. 
The VRS and BVRLA guide set out more specific guidelines for some parts of the vehicle. 
Where appropriate, Ive also considered those more specific guidelines.
1. Nearside front mirror cover
In respect of mirror housings, the BVRLA guide says:
The housing unit should not be damaged or cracked.
Ive seen two photos clearly showing a number of scuffs and gouges in the mirror 
housing. Im satisfied this damage falls outside the VRS and BVRLA guidelines for fair 
wear and tear, so I think it was fair and reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D the cost 
of repairing it. 
2. Rear bumper
The BVRLA guide says:
The vehicles exterior bodywork and any fittings should be free of damage subject to 
the fair wear and tear tolerances.
scuffs and scratches of 50mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is 
not broken, cracked or deformed.
Ive seen a photo of the rear bumper showing an area thats been scuffed and slightly 
deformed. Im satisfied this damage falls outside the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and 
tear. So, I consider it fair and reasonable for Mercedes to charge Mr D for this.
3. Nearside rear door
The BVRLA guide says:
The vehicles exterior bodywork and any fittings should be free of damage subject to 
the fair wear and tear tolerances.
scuffs and scratches of 50mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is 
not broken, cracked or deformed.
doors should be secure, free from structural damage.
(i) HingeMercedes said they applied a charge for replacement of the hinge because it was 
bent and had been secured with an incorrect bolt. 
Ive seen two photos of this hinge, the lower edge of which appears slightly 
misshapen. Ive seen that its secured with three bolts, one of which is clearly 
different from the other two. 
(ii) Door handle/light
Ive seen photos of the handle/light fitting located above the registration plate on the 
nearside rear door. I can see an obvious area of damage on the lower edge of this 
fitting.
Ive seen nothing in the photos to give any indication of the size of the damaged 
area. But I dont consider the size to be relevant because Ive seen that this fitting is 
clearly deformed - the bottom edge no longer being straight. 
(iii) Light cluster 
The VRS and BVRLA guide both say:
cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units are not acceptable...
Ive seen photos of the nearside rear light cluster, showing a crack in the cover over 
the reversing lamp.
Mr D doesnt accept that this damage was caused during the time he had the van. He 
said the door hinge must have been like that when the van was supplied to him, because 
he had no reason to interfere with it. He believes some damage may have happened after 
the van was collected from him. Ive thought about this.
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr D had this van from new. As Im satisfied that theres 
obvious evidence of the nearside rear door having been repainted to a poor standard, I 
find it most likely that all the damage to this door has happened since the van was 
supplied to Mr D. 
Im satisfied that the nearside rear door has suffered more damage than would be 
considered acceptable as fair wear and tear. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes to charge Mr D for each of these items. 
Ive gone on to consider whether there was any other reason why it would be unfair for 
Mercedes to apply these charges. Mr D has told us that he returned the van with much lower 
than expected mileage. But Ive seen nothing in the agreement terms that would allow for 
him to receive a discount for utilising less than the maximum permitted mileage.  So, I 
wouldnt expect Mercedes to offer Mr D any rebate for this.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I consider the following charges to have been fairly applied:
MOT
Front bonnet chipped
Nearside front door chipped
Nearside front mirror cover scratched
Offside front door chippedOffside sliding door chipped
Rear bumper damaged
Nearside rear light cluster cracked
Nearside rear door handle light damaged
Nearside rear door poor previous
Nearside rear door lower hinge missing.  
But Im not persuaded that it was fair to charge Mr D for the following:
Offside front door dented
Offside rear quarter panel poor previous
Nearside rear quarter panel poor previous.  
So, I think Mercedes should remove these three charges from their invoice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the following charges from their invoice to Mr D:
Offside front door dented £19.61,
Offside rear quarter panel poor previous £178.60,
Nearside rear quarter panel poor previous £178.60.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman