DRN-3470260
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to make sure she 
wasnt being scammed when she made payments intended to be investments. She also 
thinks Santander should have done more to recover her money. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill provide a summary of what happened and focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. 
Miss C invested around £8,000 with two companies in February and March 2021. She 
contacted Santander, as she believed shed been the victim of an elaborate scam and asked 
it to raise a chargeback.
Santander said it didnt have grounds to apply for a chargeback, as set out by the card 
scheme, as the payments had been made to a trading/investment company.
Miss C received credits back from one of the companies of around £3,000. And it agreed, 
several months later, to refund a further £2,000. But Miss C feels Santander should refund 
the remaining losses as it didnt ask any questions at the time of the payments and should 
have done more to protect her.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the two companies werent legitimate based on her 
research. She also didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably by not intervening with 
the payments and not pursuing a chargeback. But Miss C disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have to consider, so far as is reasonably possible, whether Miss C has been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. Banks (and 
other payment service providers) only have a duty to protect customers from the risk 
of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where payments 
are made to a legitimate investment. 
Both firms had temporary permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority to carry 
out investment activities in the UK at the time. And it would be extremely rare for 
scam companies to provide such high credits or refunds, particularly once its clear 
that the investor wont be making any further payments. So, I cant fairly conclude 
these firms were operating fraudulently or that Miss C was the victim of a scam. And I 
dont think Santander could reasonably have been expected to intervene here.
I also conclude that it was reasonable for Santander not to proceed with the 
chargeback claim. For this card scheme, chargebacks are available for transactions 
in which a value is purchased for gambling, investment, or similar purposes. But 
there are no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent 
chips, or withdrawal of such value, or any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the 
use of such chips or value. Here, Miss C couldnt see the funds in her trading 
accounts and the matter related to the account not producing the expected profits. 
So, there was no reasonable prospect of success with a chargeback claim. Im 
persuaded Santander acted reasonably here. 
In summary, Im not persuaded this was a scam. And I dont think Santander acted in error 
by not pursuing the chargeback further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman