DRN-3715877
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R are unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after they made a 
claim on the Leisure and Lifestyle Protection section of their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M is the policyholder of a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which also covers 
other family members; Mrs R is his daughter. The Leisure and Lifestyle Protection part of 
the policy includes event cancellation cover. 
At the end of July 2021 Mrs R paid a deposit to an event management company relating to a 
wedding planned for 18 December 2021. That followed the Governments decision earlier in 
the month to end most Covid-19 related legal restrictions, remove social distancing and 
social contact restrictions and enable remaining businesses to reopen. 
Preparations for the wedding continued and Mrs R paid further sums to the event 
management company in August and early December. However, around that time she 
became concerned at the rise in Covid-19 cases in the UK following the arrival of the 
Omicron variant. That led to some guests at the wedding becoming unwell or deciding not to 
attend. Mrs R says the impact of that and the potential risks to other attendees caused her 
significant emotional distress. As a result she took the difficult decision to cancel the 
wedding event in order to protect her mental health (the wedding ceremony went ahead as 
planned but with a reduced congregation). 
Mr M made a claim on the policy for the costs Mrs R incurred prior to cancellation (which 
amounted to around £25,000). UKI turned down the claim. It said while it appreciated the 
impact on Mrs Rs mental health that was caused by the rise in Covid-19 cases. And the 
policy didnt cover circumstances existing prior to the production of the event and which 
threatened to result in an event cancellation loss. It thought that applied here. 
Our investigator agreed the cancellation reasons were linked to Covid-19. And this was a 
circumstance which was covered by the exclusion in the policy; although restrictions had 
been lifted by the government in mid-July, Covid remained in existence and restrictions 
could be reimposed. She thought UKI had fairly turned down the claim. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said while Covid still existed at the point Mrs R arranged her wedding 
it didnt threaten cancellation as the outbreak appeared fully under control and in rapid 
remission. Based on government advice it was reasonable to assume there was no longer 
any threat of cancellation. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been an extremely distressing experience for Mrs R. I was really sorry 
to learn about the impact on her mental health in the run up to her proposed wedding and I 
recognise taking the decision to cancel the wedding event must have been hard for her. But 
the question I need to consider is whether UKI did anything wrong in turning down the claim 
Mr M subsequently made for the costs she incurred. In doing so Ive taken into account the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines which say UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first and the terms and conditions of the policy. This does provide cancellation 
cover for irrecoverable costs and expenses you directly incur or are directly responsible for 
if your event is necessarily cancelled prior to the commencement of your event as a direct 
result of any sudden and accidental occurrence beyond your control.
Occurrence is defined as a) a loss or an accident, including continuous or repeated 
exposure to the same general harmful conditions which occurs during the period of 
insurance and results in personal injury or property damage; or b) an offence, including a 
series of related offences, committed during the period of insurance resulting in
personal injury or property damage.
The policy doesnt cover circumstances which exist prior to the production of the event and 
which threatened to result in an event cancellation loss, if you were aware of such 
circumstances and failed to make them known to us in writing prior to the proposed date for 
the event.
Mr M argues the mental distress caused to Mrs R which led her to cancel her wedding event 
would meet the policy definition of a sudden and accidental occurrence beyond your 
control. But even if hes correct about that, I dont think its reasonable to look at the mental 
distress Mrs R suffered in isolation without considering the cause of it. And the cause was 
Covid-19 and in particular the rise in cases from the end of November and the potential 
impact of that on her wedding event. 
So I think the exclusion for circumstances existing prior to the production of the event is 
relevant here. And I think its clear Covid-19 was a circumstance which existed prior to Mrs R 
contacting the events company and paying the deposit for her wedding event. However, the 
policy term refers to a circumstance which threatened to cause an event cancellation loss. 
Ive thought carefully about how that applies here.
Mr M argues it doesnt because if the wedding had been cancelled by a reimposition of 
Covid restrictions that wouldnt have been covered under the terms of the policy so there 
would be no loss to the insurer. But the terms refer to event cancellation loss; they dont say 
it has to be a loss which affects the insurer. There clearly is a loss in this case because its 
given rise to Mrs Rs claim. 
However, I appreciate at the point Mrs R paid her initial deposit to the event management 
company Covid-19 related legal restrictions in England had been lifted. Mr M says at that 
point the outbreak appeared to be under control and was in remission. And I can understand 
why Mrs R decided to contact the event company thinking shed be able to go ahead with 
her wedding plans. I also recognise the risk from the Omicron variant wasnt something 
shed have been aware of at that point because this hadnt yet become an issue. 
But the test as set out in the policy term is whether circumstances existing prior to the 
production of the event threatened to result in an event cancellation loss. At the point Mrs R 
paid her initial deposit the seven-day case average for new Covid-19 infections in the UK 
was around 27,000. While that had dropped from a mid-July peak it was still around five 
times higher than at the end of May. And when the government lifted restrictions in July 2021 it said The pandemic is not over. 
Cases are increasing rapidly and a third wave is underway. Step 4 does not mark the end of 
the need for caution and restraint. At step 4, while many of the legal restrictions that the 
Government has imposed through the pandemic will be lifted, cautious guidance will remain, 
making it clear this is not yet a return to normal.
It was also generally accepted Covid-19 cases were likely to increase as winter approached 
(meaning there was potential for increased restrictions to combat that). The July 2021 
guidance said In September, the Government will undertake a review to assess the 
countrys preparedness for autumn and winter, which will consider whether to continue or 
strengthen public and business guidance as we approach the winter, Mrs Rs wedding 
event was scheduled for December 2021. And the history of the Covid-19 pandemic in the 
UK prior to July 2021 includes instances of restrictions being lifted only to be reimposed at a 
later date. 
Given that I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in concluding Covid-19 was a circumstance 
known prior to Mrs R paying the deposit for her wedding event which did threaten an event 
cancellation loss at that time. I dont think its in dispute Mrs R didnt contact UKI about this. 
And I understand UKI has spoken to its underwriters who confirmed if they had been notified 
they wouldnt have agreed cover for this event because the risk of cancellation was too high 
for cover to be provided.  Taking all of that into account and, on balance, I dont think UKI 
acted unfairly in turning down the claim Mr M and Mrs R made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 
24 October 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman