DRN-1689402
The complaint
Mr L complains about the refund he got from Towergate Underwriting Group Limited when 
he cancelled his specialist motor insurance policy. Mr L is represented by Ms K.
What happened
Ms K called Towergate on 1 October 2019 on Mr Ls behalf about the renewal of his motor 
insurance policy, which expired the next day. As she said Mr L hadnt received any renewal 
documents, the advisor sent them to the portal, where Ms K accessed them straight away. 
She confirmed to the advisor that shed read the documents. He said the best price he could 
find for a policy was £399.02, which included Towergates £35 admin fee (for setting the 
policy up) plus £32.50 for a legal protection policy. Ms K said she was going to look at prices 
elsewhere, but she later called back to accept the policy. It started on 3 October 2019. 
On 14 October 2019 Ms K called to check the cost of changing the car on the policy. The 
advisor said it would be an extra £154.58. Ms K thought that was expensive, so she asked 
the advisor about the policys cancellation fee. He said it was £32.50 (although it was 
actually £35). Ms K said shed look for other policies. 
Ms K called again on 5 November 2019 to cancel the existing policy, as shed found a 
cheaper one elsewhere. She said the previous advisor had told her shed only pay £35 on 
cancellation (from the £399.02 paid for the policy). But the new advisor said there were other 
charges, which amounted to £172.86 ( later adjusted down by £2.50, as the advisor had 
given Ms K the wrong sum for the cancellation charge). The other charges were for time on 
cover with the insurer, the legal policy and Towergates initial admin fee, plus a commission 
clawback charge of £40.39. 
Ms K said Towergate was charging over £170 for one months cover. The advisor said if the 
policy had been cancelled within the 14-day cooling-off period, the legal policy would have 
been refunded and there wouldnt have been a cancellation charge. Ms K said she wasnt 
told that when she asked about cancellation charges. She also said the previous advisor had 
said Towergate would price-match a quote she received elsewhere, but it didnt do that. 
  
In its response to Ms Ks complaint,  Towergate accepted that the advisor made an error on 
14 October 2019 in saying the cancellation charge was £32.50. It adjusted the sum charged 
by deducting £2.50.It said he should also have referred her to the new business team when 
she said she wasnt happy with the quote. It explained the charges that were made on 
cancellation. It said the advisor who dealt with Ms K on 5 November 2019 had offered to 
refer her to the new business team - and it had obtained a cheaper quote whilst the 
cancellation charges were being calculated. Ms K didnt get to hear all the details of the 
cheaper quote as she asked to speak to a manager and then cancelled the policy. 
Towergate said there had been no agreement to price-match. 
   
One of our investigators considered Ms Ks complaint. In her opinion, the charges made on 
cancellation were fair, except for the commission charge, which she didnt think was made 
clear to Ms K in the sales call or the policy documents / terms of business. So she thought 
Towergate should refund that charge. Towergate then agreed to do that. 
The investigator didnt think there was evidence of Towergates advisors offering to price-
match a quote Ms K got elsewhere. And she didnt think Ms K would have cancelled the 
policy had the cooling-off period been mentioned to her on 14 October 2019. She said that 
period ended three days later, but Mr L hadnt yet bought the car and needed pedals to be 
fitted to it once it was delivered. Meanwhile, his existing car had to remain insured for work. 
 
Ms K sent the investigator information that she thought showed that Mr L had bought the car 
earlier. As the investigator wasnt persuaded by it, her view remained the same. Ms K asked 
for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Ms K was mistaken in thinking that Mr L would ever have been able to cancel the 
policy for £35 and have the rest of the £399.02 he paid for the policy returned. 
Even if the policy had been cancelled within the cooling-off period, Mr L would still have 
been charged for time on cover with the insurer. I dont think there can be any debate about 
that charge. Mr L would also have been charged the £35 set-up fee the advisor told Ms K 
about initially. I think that was a reasonable charge, as it covered Towergates work in setting 
the policy up. So there would always have been a deduction of £67.50 from the sum Mr L 
had paid. Ms K was also told at the start that the non-refundable legal policy would cost 
£32.50, but during the cooling-off period it would have been refunded in full. And Mr L 
wouldnt have been charged Towergates £35 cancellation fee either.
    
In my opinion, when Ms K asked about the cancellation fee on 14 October 2019, the advisor 
could have said that at that point, there wasnt one, as the cooling-off period hadnt expired. I 
think thats likely to have led to him advising Ms K that in three days time, when it ended, a 
£35 cancellation fee would apply. The other charges may then have been stated - but I dont 
think thats likely, given the specific question Ms K had asked.    
I think its clear from the call that Ms K was expecting to pay a cancellation charge if the 
policy was cancelled. It was set out in the documents sent to the portal  and I dont think 
she objected to the cancellation charge in itself anyway. In my opinion, the problem was that 
Ms K didnt realise it would be charged in addition to the other charges shed already been 
told about. So Ms K believed the only charge made would be £35 - but I dont think the view 
shed formed was Towergates fault. 
I think its unfortunate that Ms K didnt ask the advisor what the refund would be should the 
policy be cancelled. She told him she was going to look for other policies  and at that point I 
think its clear that she wasnt ready to cancel the existing policy. Ms K didnt know whether 
shed be able to find a suitable alternative for a better price - and meanwhile Mr L still 
needed cover for his car. 
Ms K didnt contact Towergate again for three weeks, so it doesnt look as though there was 
any rush to change the car that was insured on the policy. And I agree with the investigator 
that Ms K hasnt been able to show that the new car was ready to drive before the end of the 
cooling-off period. As Ms K wasnt properly informed at the outset about Towergates £40.39 commission 
charge, I dont think it was reasonable for Towergate to charge for it. That charge brought 
the total deductions made from the £399.02 Mr L had paid to £172.86. I think it was 
understandable for Ms K to regard that sum as extortionate for one months cover  but that 
was partly based on her misunderstanding of what the charges were for. 
When Towergate removed its commission charge, the sum deducted was £132.37. That was 
still much more than Ms K had expected, so she remained unhappy. But she hadnt taken 
into account the initial charges of £67.50 or the insurers charge for cover. And she hadnt 
noted the non-refundable £32.50 charge for the legal policy. We sometimes say that the cost 
of non-refundable add-on policies like this should be refunded. But thats only if the likely 
cancellation charge for that policy would be less than the pro-rata refund. Given the policys 
low value, I think thats unlikely to be the case here. 
I appreciate why Ms K was so shocked by the full costs associated with the cancellation. But 
I dont think its reasonable to say that she hadnt been made aware of them (except for the 
commission charge). Towergate offered to put that right by waiving the charge. I know Ms K 
and Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, as Mr L has paid much more in cancellation 
costs than he or Ms K anticipated. But I think Towergates decision to waive its commission 
charge is a reasonable way to deal with the complaint. I dont think it would be fair to ask it to 
do more than that, so I cant uphold the rest of Mr Ls complaint. 
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Towergate Underwriting 
Group Limited to waive its £40.39 commission fee, and refund it to Mr L, if it hasnt done so 
already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman