DRN-3087356
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she wasnt informed by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL) that the process of transferring a shareholding from her investment account to 
an ISA would incur a significant loss. Her husband, Mr C, has made a similar complaint, 
which has been dealt with separately. 
What happened
In July 2016 Mrs C arranged to bed and ISA a shareholding into a new ISA from her 
investment account with HL. As is usual with the process, this involved the sale of the shares 
in her investment account followed by a corresponding repurchase in the ISA. 
Mrs C carried out the transaction on-line. Doing so meant that she ended up with 144 fewer 
shares than before the sale  to a value of £41.23, which reflected the costs of the process. 
In early 2021 Mrs C complained to HL that she had incurred a significant loss to the value of 
her holding. She felt the bed and ISA process hadnt been explained properly and that it had 
reduced the value of her holding from around £11,000 to around £6,000. She said that if 
shed been made aware of the potential for the bed and ISA to cause such a loss, she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with it. 
HL didnt uphold the complaint. It explained the charges associated with the transaction and 
stressed that the fall in value of Mrs Cs holding had been as a result of market movements. 
The share price had fallen significantly since shed purchased the shares during a period in 
2012 to 2014. The only cost/loss associated with the bed and ISA was the £41.23.
Mrs C referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as HL. She said, in brief: 
HLs service was execution-only, meaning that it was Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure 
she understood the information provided to her, which had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
HLs on-line process provided clear information about how the bed and ISA would 
work, and the fact that fewer shares would be purchased as a result of stamp duty 
and the bid/offer spread.
The value of Mrs Cs shareholding dropped considerably between 2014 and 2016 
prior to the bed and ISA, as a result of market movement. 
The loss resulting from the bed and ISA was only the £44.23  the larger loss in 
value of the holding was not HLs fault or a result of the bread and ISA process.
Mrs Cs husband, Mr C, explained on her behalf that she didnt accept the investigators 
view. He stressed that she hadnt been informed that by proceeding with the transfer her 
initial investment would be detrimentally affected. He said she didnt understand the 
consequences of the process and felt that HL had a duty of care to ensure she was fully 
informed that the shares would be sold at a price so far below that which theyd been 
purchased at. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to 
me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can understand Mrs Cs disappointment with the fall in value of her shares. But Im unable 
to conclude that its in any way related to the bed and ISA process carried out by HL. Having 
looked at the information relating to the price of Mrs Cs shares over the period from when 
she purchased them to when the bed and ISA took place in 2016, Im satisfied the loss shes 
identified was a result of a fall in the market. 
I appreciate why she might feel that selling at around 28.50p per share when shed originally 
purchased the shares at as much as 139p was crystallising a loss. But as part of the bed 
and ISA process the shares were immediately repurchased at 28.63p, so her overall position 
remained broadly the same, other than the slight reduction of 144 in the number of shares 
held that represented the cost of the transaction - £41.23. 
In short, prior to the transfer she held 22403 shares, after it she held 22259, which shows 
that there was very little change in her position. The value of her holding of shares wouldve 
then continued to fluctuate in value as the market moved, with the possibility of regaining 
any value lost. She was, for all intents and purposes, remaining invested just as she was 
before. Although the bed and ISA process did involve a sale, it was immediately cancelled 
out by the re-purchase. It wasnt an isolated sale that crystallised a significant loss.  
Im satisfied HL provided Mrs C with a clear explanation of the process and its related costs, 
such that she was in an informed position from which to decide on whether to proceed. The 
large reduction in value which forms the basis of her complaint was, as noted, something 
that had occurred during the years leading up to the transfer.  
In summary, Im not persuaded that HL acted incorrectly or unfairly. It provided clear 
information about how the bed and ISA process would work and what the costs would be so 
that she could make an informed decision on whether to proceed. Ive not seen that there 
was anything unusual about the transaction, which was, in effect, solely an administrative 
process that is very commonly used to enable shareholders to take advantage of the tax 
benefits associated with holding shares within an ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman