DRN-2175663
The complaint
Mr W was given advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd in 2001 regarding the transfer of some 
pension benefits from a former occupational pension scheme into a personal pension. Mr W 
says that advice was inappropriate and that his pension savings have been reduced as a 
result.
What happened
The advice that was given to Mr W came from a representative of Allied Dunbar. 
Allied Dunbar is owned by Zurich, so it is that company that is responsible for this complaint. 
For ease I will refer to the responsible business as Zurich throughout this decision.
Mr W held defined pension benefits that had arisen from his membership of an occupational 
pension scheme. Mr Ws former employer had ceased trading in 1989 at which time his 
benefits became deferred. The benefits were payable at age 65.
Mr W already held a personal pension with Zurich that hed opened in 1994 to provide a 
repayment vehicle for a mortgage hed taken out. I understand that Mr W has complained 
separately about the advice that led to him taking out that personal pension so I wont deal 
with that matter any further in this decision.
Towards the end of 2001 Zurich provided Mr W with advice regarding the pension benefits 
he held that had arisen from his employment between 1981 and 1989. It recommended that 
he should transfer his deferred benefits into his personal pension. Mr W accepted that 
advice and agreed to the transfer.
In 2019 Mr W complained to Zurich that the advice it had given him had been unsuitable. He 
said that he considered he would have been better off had he remained a deferred member 
of the occupational pension scheme.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
transfer Zurich recommended had been in Mr Ws best interests. He didnt think the likely 
benefits were sufficient to outweigh the guarantees that Mr W was giving up. So he thought 
the complaint should be upheld and asked Zurich to pay Mr W some compensation.
Zurich didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Zurich. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  certainly the former is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in 
the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In 2001, when the advice was given by Zurich, Mr W held defined benefits with his former 
occupational scheme. The value of his future pension would increase each year by a fixed 
percentage, so giving him a reasonable level of certainty about what his ultimate benefits 
would be when he retired around 22 years later. Zurich needed to bear these guarantees in 
mind when it was considering the advice it gave to Mr W.
In order to formulate its advice Zurich gathered information from a number of sources. It 
asked Mr W for details of his circumstances and his future plans. It got details from the 
administrators of Mr Ws occupational scheme about the benefits he would be due at 
retirement. And it looked at the benefits that might be due to Mr W if he were to transfer his 
pension savings into his personal pension scheme. Using all that information Zurich was 
able to estimate the growth that Mr W would need to achieve on his personal pension 
savings in order to match the guaranteed benefits he was giving up.
The analysis that Zurich performed suggested that Mr Ws pension savings would need to 
grow by around 5.9% each year in order that the pension he would receive would equal that 
which was guaranteed by his occupational scheme. The advice was given during a period 
when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from 
the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was 
given in this case. 
The analysis that Zurich performed at the time simply records that Mr W was willing to take a 
reasonable level of risk. In todays terms that doesnt provide the objective assessment that 
might be expected  what is considered reasonable by one person might be potentially 
considered unreasonable  either too high or too low -  by another. But based on what the 
expectation was at the time the advice was given, along with Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives, I think it reasonable to conclude that Zurich had assessed Mr W as being willing 
to take a moderate level of risk in order to grow his pension savings. From what he has told 
us, Mr W certainly wasnt in a position to take significant risk, but I dont think it reasonable to 
conclude he wasnt willing to take any risk at all.
As I said above, the investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational 
pension benefits at retirement was quoted as 5.9% per year. This compares with the 
regulators discount rate of 7.2% per year for someone in Mr Ws circumstances with around 
22 years to retirement. The illustration for the proposed personal pension policy also had a 
mid-band growth rate of 7%.
So, as Zurich has argued, the rate at which Mr Ws personal pension savings needed to 
grow was less than the regulators estimate that would be applicable to someone in Mr Ws 
circumstances. But I dont think that simple calculation fairly reflects all that Zurich needed to 
take into account when making its recommendation.Mr Ws pension savings, in his personal pension plan, were subject to annual fund 
management charges. Zurich has told us that these charges were levied at 0.75% of the 
fund value. So those charges might increase the level of gross return that Mr W would need 
to achieve in order to match the guaranteed benefits he was giving up.
I have also looked carefully at the reasons Mr W might have had for transferring his pension 
benefits. His employer had ceased trading many years before. His pension savings were 
now managed by a mainstream financial institution. So I dont think that Mr W would have 
had any concerns that he needed to separate his pension savings from a former employers 
assets, notwithstanding the legislative framework that already provided that sort of protection 
in any case.
By transferring his pension savings, Mr W might have been able to achieve some greater 
flexibility. But I have noted that he was able to take his pension benefits from the 
occupational scheme up to three years before his scheduled retirement date without any 
penalty. And in the information that Zurich gathered from Mr W he explained that whilst early 
retirement might be attractive, he doubted that it would be affordable for him. Mr W was by 
far the main income earner in the household, and had three dependent children at that time - 
although I accept they were likely to be independent by the time he retired. Im not 
persuaded that any additional flexibility around retirement dates the transfer might have 
offered was of much interest or necessity to Mr W, certainly in any case to the extent that it 
might have been a driving factor in his decision to transfer.
So ultimately I must conclude that the main driver behind a decision to transfer the benefits 
from the occupational scheme was that they might be worth more in a personal pension 
plan. That is, that the transfer would be financially advantageous to Mr W. So I would expect 
to see this clearly demonstrated by the difference between the returns Mr W was likely to 
receive, and the rate at which his savings would need to grow in order to match the 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up.
Furthermore, that advantage would in my view need to also outweigh the significant 
advantage that the guaranteed nature of the deferred occupational scheme benefits offered 
him.
But I dont think the difference in these rates, based on my earlier analysis, was sufficient to 
support the recommendation that Zurich made. Mr W was taking the majority of his pension 
savings from a guaranteed scheme to one where his benefits would be wholly dependent 
upon the performance of the underlying investments. My view is that the potential financial 
gain, as narrow as it was, wasnt significant enough to mitigate the risk Mr W was taking.
Zurichs analysis found that Mr W did have some other pension savings, and these were 
likely to grow over the following years. Mr W was a member of his then employers 
occupational pension scheme and this would provide additional pension income when he 
ultimately retired. But its noteworthy that, at the time it was giving the advice, Zurichs own 
conclusion was that the benefits it was recommending Mr W transfer formed the majority of 
his pension savings.
I also note that his then employers scheme was a money purchase plan, and so it wasnt 
envisaged that Mr W would be accruing any further guaranteed benefits. Its fair to say that 
Mr W did also have other personal pension plans, but these were quite modest in value.Zurich has said that ultimately Mr W agreed with its recommendation. And I can see that the 
recommendation report it provided to Mr W does lay out the decisions that he needed to 
make, including the guaranteed benefits he was giving up and that his future pension income 
would be reliant on investment returns. But I dont think that detracts from the responsibility 
that Zurich had to provide appropriate advice to Mr W. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr W was experienced in matters such as these and so it was reasonable for him to rely 
upon the recommendation he received from his professional advisors. That recommendation 
was for him to transfer his pension benefits.
I do think that there are aspects of this case which mitigate the transfer advice, and make 
the outcome quite finely balanced. Specifically, I accept that the critical yield was below both 
the mid band growth rate in the illustrations and the assumption for growth as determined by 
the discount rate for pension review calculations. This was a narrow margin, however  
and I have to bear in mind that this was the required rate just to match the benefits being 
relinquished. The purpose of the transfer was to better the benefits  which were, as a 
reminder, guaranteed  in the occupational pension scheme.
Ive also noted that Mr W held other pensions, but none of these  including the employers 
scheme he was then a member of - offered the defined benefit guarantees which Mr W was 
relinquishing. By leaving the deferred benefits where they were, Mr W could have had the 
combined diversified benefit of their guarantees, along with the riskier, but potentially more 
rewarding, features of the personal pension policies and money purchase scheme. By 
transferring, Mr Ws eggs were effectively placed into one basket.
Mr W had 22 years left to prospective retirement. Again, this is a reasonable amount of time 
in which the transferred benefits could have produced the required growth. But it also begs 
the question as to why someone so far from retirement would need to be making decisions 
about, for example, wanting flexibility of benefits. These are decisions which could have 
been left to nearer Mr Ws retirement date and which, by then, would have been based upon 
real life scenarios.
So, overall, my conclusion is that the advice Zurich gave to Mr W in 2001 was unsuitable. 
I think if Zurich had provided suitable advice Mr W would have decided to not transfer his 
pension savings from the occupational scheme. So Zurich needs to put things right for Mr W. 
Putting things right
I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Zurich must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision. 
Zurich may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account any impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr W 
within 90 days of the date Zurich receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Zurich to pay Mr W this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that total fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I can 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require Zurich to pay Mr W compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Zurich to 
pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Zurich to pay 
Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000 I also recommend that Zurich pays Mr W the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my determination, the money award will be binding on Zurich.  My 
recommendation will not be binding on Zurich. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing to him after 
the money award has been paid. Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman