DRN-1207146
 
The complaint
Ms S says Provident Personal Credit Limited - trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Satsuma provided to Ms S between January 2016 and 
December 2018.  Ms Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 16/01/2016 04/02/2016 3 £150.00 £66.04
Break 
2 04/01/2018 26/01/2018 6 £400.00 £126.40
Break
3 18/12/2018 Outstanding 12 £800.00 £132.80
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ss complaint and 
thought loan 3 shouldnt have been given. They thought this because the information 
Satsuma had gathered about Ms S showed she was having problems managing her money 
because she had defaults and a county court judgment (CCJ) on her credit file when she 
was given the loan. 
Satsuma didnt reply to the assessment, so it has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
There were significant breaks in Ms Ss borrowing from Satsuma. There was a gap of 
around two years between loans 1 and 2. Then a further gap of 11 months between loans 2 
and 3. I think it would be reasonable for Satsuma to view these gaps as an indication that        
Ms Ss finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused her to 
take out her previous loans. So, I will look at Ms Ss borrowing in three separate lending 
chains. 
In doing that, Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided 
in this context and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint. Having done this, Im partly 
upholding Ms Ss complaint about loan 3. Ill explain why.
In the recent review, our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about loans 1 and 2.   
Ms S didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings. As there appears to be no dispute about 
these loans, I wont be making any further findings on them. 
When Ms S took out loan 3, I think Satsuma ought to have realised that Ms S wouldnt have 
been able to make her repayments for her loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I 
can see Satsuma did income/expenditure and credit checks on Ms S before it lent this loan 
to her. And I can see that Satsuma has provided its findings from those checks, including the 
reports from the credit checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Ms S was able to repay any of her loans in a 
sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Ms S has a CCJ which had been 
applied to her account seven months previously. It also showed she had several defaults. I 
think this information ought to have prompted Satsuma to do further checks to verify what 
Ms S was telling it, before it lent to her. 
Had Satsuma done proportionate checks, its likely to have found that Ms S was borrowing 
from other short-term lenders. She was also earning significantly less than she declared to Satsuma. In fact, in some months she didnt have any income expect from loans from short-
term lenders. She was also making payments to a debt collection company which looks to 
recover debt linked to utilities. 
I think all of this was a clear indication that Ms S was in a debt cycle and relying upon 
borrowing to repay borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 3 and 
Satsuma should put things right.
Putting things right
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding debt Satsuma should buy it back if Satsuma is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Satsuma cant buy the debt back, then Satsuma 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 3, not including anything Satsuma has already refunded.
B) Satsuma should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Ms S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Satsuma should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 3, and 
treat any repayments made by Ms S as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms S having made overpayments then Satsuma 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Satsuma should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 3. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Satsuma should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S. Satsuma shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Satsuma has already written-off.
E) Satsuma should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file in relation 
to loan 3. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give     
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ss complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman