DRN-2419121
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society misled her about extending her mortgage 
term so that she could stay in her house for the rest of her life. Shes unhappy about how 
Nationwide treated her over the last few years. 
What happened
Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage with Nationwide in 2007. The term was due to 
expire in 2022. 
Mrs H says she visited her branch in 2018 and was told if she contacted Nationwide and 
completed some paperwork shed be able to stay in the property for the rest of her life. Shes 
upset that when she contacted Nationwide in 2019 she was told something different. She 
says instead of extending her mortgage it told her shed have to pay the outstanding balance 
or get out of her home.
Mrs H took out a lifetime mortgage with Nationwide in mid-2020. She remains unhappy with 
how she was treated over the previous two years. 
Our investigator said Nationwide had discussed Mrs Hs options with her, and hadnt treated 
her unfairly. 
Mrs H didnt agree, saying this has caused her stress and worry over many months. She 
described the difficulties shes had to deal with in her personal life and why she feels she 
deserves compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs H had an interest only mortgage with Nationwide, which was due to expire in 2022. She 
was worried about what would happen when the term of her mortgage expired. She visited 
her Nationwide branch in early 2018 to ask what she should do. Mrs H says she was told if 
she contacted Nationwide before she was 70 she could sign paperwork to allow her to live in 
her home forever and the mortgage could continue for the rest of her life.
Mrs H contacted Nationwide in mid-2019. It arranged an appointment for her with a later life 
mortgage consultant, to discuss her situation and her options. Mrs H told the mortgage 
consultant she wanted to extend her mortgage, as she couldnt repay it when the term 
expired.
Nationwides notes of that meeting say that Mrs H didnt have a repayment vehicle and 
couldnt afford to switch to a repayment mortgage. A retirement interest only mortgage 
wasnt affordable for her. Mrs H didnt meet Nationwides loan to value criteria for a lifetime 
mortgage at that time. 
Nationwide explained Mrs Hs options to her. It said she could ask for a valuation by an 
estate agent, and it might be able to offer a lifetime mortgage depending on the value of her 
property. And if not, it would look at what else it could do. 
Nationwide said Mrs H could wait until she was 70 (in early 2020) as the loan-to-value 
criteria and interest rate would be better. It also said Mrs H could also call its interest only 
team to work out a plan and extend the term. Mrs H said she would contact Nationwide 
again after looking into her options.
Mrs H contacted Nationwide again, and took out a lifetime mortgage which completed in July 
2020.
Did Nationwide make an error or treat Mrs H unfairly?
Nationwide doesnt have a record of Mrs Hs visit to her branch in 2018. I think its likely she 
did visit, and she was told to contact Nationwide again and that shed need to complete 
paperwork. 
In large part what Mrs H says she was told was correct  to find a solution to her mortgage 
term expiring with an unpaid balance shed need to contact Nationwide and there would be 
paperwork to complete. Theres not enough evidence here for me to say that Nationwide 
gave Mrs H incorrect information. I think its more likely there was a misunderstanding about 
the process involved in agreeing a solution that would allow her to remain in her home. 
Mrs H said after visiting her branch in early 2018, she spent money improving her house 
believing shed be able to stay in it. Mrs H will be able to stay in the property and benefit 
from these improvements. As Mrs H said she expected the mortgage term to be extended, 
its unlikely she was worried about her mortgage or losing her home during this time.
I dont think Nationwide treated Mrs H unfairly when she contacted it in 2019. It arranged for 
her to meet with a mortgage consultant and explained Mrs Hs options to her. One option 
was to apply for a lifetime mortgage in 2020, which is what Mrs H has done. 
I havent seen evidence that Nationwide told Mrs H to pay the balance or get out of her 
home, and this isnt consistent with the evidence I have seen of Nationwide explaining the 
options available to avoid this.
Mrs H described the difficulties shes dealt with in her personal life, her health and with her 
property. Im sorry for what shes had to deal with. While I appreciate Mrs H has found 
sorting out her mortgage situation worrying and upsetting, I dont think Nationwide treated 
her unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide 
to pay compensation.
Mrs H says there were problems with her mortgage payments since taking out the lifetime 
mortgage, which shes sorted out herself. This wasnt part of the complaint brought to us, so 
I wont look into it here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman