DRN-4112605
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited maintained its decision to decline a claim 
made on her private medical insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Aviva has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And 
it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
Mrs Hs claim to cover a right knee replacement which took place towards the end of 
2021 was initially declined by Aviva on the basis that the policy was underwritten on 
a moratorium basis. It concluded that surgery on her right knee was due to a pre-
existing medical condition as defined by the terms of the policy given that the 
moratorium started in January 2020, and shed had a right knee replacement in the 
five years before that date. That was based on the medical evidence available at the 
time. A complaint about that decision has already been determined by our service 
and wasnt upheld. So that everyone is clear, I wont be considering any aspects of 
that complaint again.
The focus of the complaint Ill be determining is whether Aviva has acted fairly and 
reasonably by maintaining its decision to decline Mrs Hs claim to cover the costs of 
her right knee replacement in late 2021 based on further medical evidence shes 
provided as of December 2022 and January 2023 when Aviva issued its final 
response letter and follow up correspondence. 
A letter from Mrs Hs consultant trauma & orthopaedic surgeon (the surgeon) dated 
November 2021 reflects that shed recently had another left knee replacement, and 
this was quite stable. However, her right knee replacement (carried out a few years 
previously) was very unstable and this was examined when she was in theatre the 
week before. It goes on to say: she has a history of recurrent falls and indeed this is 
why her left revision knee replacement dislocated. I have advised that I feel that she 
is a very high falls risk and I am concerned that should she have a heavy fall onto her 
right knee then she is likely to sustain afracture which indeed was the situation on 
the left side. As a result, the date for a right knee replacement was expedited. 
The surgeon provided a document entitled clarification of previous notes and 
opinion, which Aviva considered when reviewing Mrs Hs claim. That document sets 
out a timeline from August 2021 and reflects that she tripped in the garden around 
that time. And although she continued to make good progress, she had a significant 
setback a few months later, having fallen on several occasions and her left knee had 
become unstable. It goes on to say: this also has had an effect on the right knee. 
Priority was to restore the left knee but the right knee likely to also need revision 
surgery as there was a massively high probability of further falls and fracture to the 
right knee if not carried out. This document concludes that prior to the fall in the 
summer of 2021 Mrs H was probably making reasonable progress from her two 
original knee replacements. But the fall in 2021 caused a fracture in the left knee and 
this fall, consequential ongoing instability and further falls caused additional issues 
with the right knee
However, looking at the totality of the medical evidence, I dont think Aviva has 
unfairly decided to maintain its decision to decline the claim relating to the right knee 
replacement in late 2021 on the basis its a direct result of a pre-existing medical 
condition - the previous right knee replacement undertaken prior to the inception of 
the policy. I think its reasonably concluded that the overall medical evidence doesnt 
support that this right knee replacement  unlike the left knee replacement - was 
required as a direct result of the fall a few months before. And that the right knee 
replacement was most likely necessary due to stability problems and to prevent 
further falls in future.
Mrs H has very recently provided a further letter from the consultant dated May 2023. 
However, shell need to refer this to Aviva to review in the first instance to see 
whether it impacts its assessment of the claim. My decision focuses on the 
information Aviva had available and considered when maintaining its decision to 
decline the claim as at the date of its final response letter dated December and follow 
up letter January 2023. Aviva did say if Mrs H wished to obtain all previous medical 
information (consultation letters, imaging reports/notes etc) from the initial surgeries 
to date, it would happily review these on receipt. And that this information could be 
obtained from her GP. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman