DRN-3112749
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated his 
finance agreement at a time when he was experiencing financial difficulty due to ill health. 
 
What happened
 In July 2017, Mr B entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase (PCP) to acquire a 
new car at a cash price of £46,733. Mr B was required to pay £520 per month with a final 
optional payment of £17,482. 
Mr B said he started to experience ill health in late 2018 meaning he was struggling to work 
and had difficulty meeting the monthly payments. The account fell into arrears and in May 
2019, a default notice was issued for the amount of £1,560. Mr B contacted VWFS to let 
them know about his personal situation and how it was affecting his financial circumstances. 
Mr B explained if he doesnt work, he received no income. VWFS outlined the potential 
options to end the agreement early and sent documentation about voluntary termination. 
In June 2019, Mr B told VWFS that his situation hadnt changed. They agreed to place the 
account on hold for 30 days and offered to explain the options again to end the agreement 
rather than the arrears increasing. However Mr B said he intended to bring the account up to 
date once he had returned to work. 
In July 2019, a payment plan was set up in which Mr B was required to pay £520 for a period 
of four months to clear the arrears in addition to meeting the monthly contractual payments. 
As this wasnt followed, in July and September 2019, VWFS sent notifications that the 
account was in arrears by £2,080 and £1,560 respectively. 
In October 2019, a default notice was issued stating £1,560 was owed. Mr B disputed this. 
VWFS advised that although he had cleared the initial arrears, he hadnt made the monthly 
payments so the account hadnt been brought up to date. Later that month, Mr B had to 
undergo medical surgery and it was agreed he would contact VWFS in January 2020. 
As agreed, in January 2020 Mr B spoke to VWFS to explain that he was still recovering from 
his surgery. He explained he expected to return to work in the next couple of weeks on a 
phased return basis. He said he intended to start clearing the arrears at the end of January 
2020 but as he was uncertain how many hours he would be working, he was unable to say 
what his income would be. VWFS said they would need to get an understanding of his 
income and expenditure in order to set up a suitable repayment plan. As requested, 
following the call, Mr B provided his medical records to VWFS. 
In February 2020, another default notice was issued as the account was in arrears of £3,120 
and it said it needed to be brought up to date by 2 March 2020. As this didnt happen, in 
March 2020, VWFS terminated the agreement. 
Mr B complained as he was unhappy with the action taken by VWFS. He felt his personal 
circumstances hadnt been taken into account. VWFS said theyd given consideration to his 
situation and they had placed the account on hold to allow support. They said as Mr B failed 
to contact them on multiple occasions after January 2020, they werent able to delay the 
collection further. They said default notices were issued in May 2019, October 2019 and 
February 2020 so Mr B was aware of the potential consequences if the account wasnt 
brought up to date. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They felt VWFS had shown forbearance and 
they had treated Mr B fairly from the time they knew about his ill health. 
Mr B disagreed. He said:
- He kept VWFS up-to-date about his health including contacting them in January 2020 
following his surgery;
- He didnt have a disposable income of £3,000 per month as reported by VWFS as he 
wasnt working at the time due to his ill health;
- At times, he had to borrow money in order to reduce the arrears;
- He started making payments as soon as he returned to work in January 2020 and in 
some months he paid twice;
- He made 16 payments towards the agreement however he had been told only 8 had 
been received;
- He was in and out of hospital due to his ill health and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
he was very busy with work as a key worker therefore he wasnt always able to 
respond to VWFS communication. 
The investigator raised the issue regarding the 16 payments made by Mr B to VWFS as a 
separate complaint. In response, they said a total of 13 payments of £520 had been made 
but this was after the agreement was terminated in March 2020.
Having reviewed the file, I put my initial thoughts to VWFS and I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint as I didnt think it was fair for them to terminate Mr Bs agreement when they did. I 
said this because following the call in January 2020, it doesnt appear there was ever any 
discussion about his income nor about setting up a suitable payment plan to clear the
arrears. Overall, I didnt believe VWFS had provided sufficient time from Mr B returning to 
work in January 2020 to set up a payment plan and clear the arrears before the agreement 
was terminated in March 2020. 
In response, VWFS said the outstanding balance was £20,705 and had the agreement not 
terminated it wouldve come to a natural end in August 2021. However as the account was 
placed on hold while our service investigated the matter, the car remained in Mr Bs 
possession.
VWFS felt they had acted fairly throughout the history of the account given Mr Bs financial 
circumstances and it was fair to terminate the agreement. However they agreed had 
communication between them and Mr B continued, this situation couldve been avoided. On 
that basis, they said they were prepared to explore other options and they said they were 
willing to do the following:
- Withdraw the termination and update Mr Bs credit file accordingly (this will show as a 
termination on their internal systems only but it wont be visible to external parties 
and they will manually add a note to the system to outline what has happened);
- If Mr B returned the car, he would be required to pay £3,222 plus any charges for 
damages and excess mileage. They would set up a suitable repayment plan for this 
money to be paid back; or- If Mr B decided to keep the car, he would be required to pay £17,482 in full;
- They would report adverse information for any missed or late payments.
In essence, VWFS said they were willing to treat the agreement as if it had never been 
terminated. This was put to Mr B for his consideration and he agreed to return the car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr Bs finance agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Having spoken to Mr B about his personal circumstances, I would like to express again that 
Im sorry to hear about his ill health, I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time and given 
what he has said, its clear this significantly impacted his daily life and financial 
circumstances. Moreover, once he returned to work, as a key worker, his personal 
circumstances were further impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
In instances where consumers are facing such financial difficulty, the relevant guidance 
which I would expect VWFS to follow is found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). It says A firm must treat customers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
  
There is no defined list of what a financial business must do as it will depend on the 
individual circumstances and a number of other factors such as whether the financial 
difficulty is expected to be a short term or long term issue. Having considered VWFS 
actions, I do believe there were occasions where forbearance and due consideration was 
shown. 
I say this because rather than letting the arrears accumulate and the debt worsen, VWFS 
outlined the options to end the agreement early including voluntary termination, in June 
2019, they agreed to give 30 days breathing space where no collection activity took place 
and they also set up a four month repayment plan. Although notice of sum of arrears 
(NOSIA) and default letters were sent, they didnt take any further action initially. 
Additionally, following Mr Bs surgery in October 2019, they didnt contact him to allow him 
the time and space to recover. In the circumstances, I think these were reasonable steps 
taken by VWFS in light of Mr Bs financial difficulty.
However its from January 2020, when Mr B returned to work, where I believe matters 
couldve been dealt with more fairly. As agreed, Mr B contacted VWFS in January 2020 and 
he explained he was due to return to work on a phased return basis. As his exact hours were 
unknown at that point in time, he said he wasnt able to say what his income would be. 
Although VWFS said they would need to know this in order to set up a suitable repayment 
plan, I cant see this ever happened. Despite Mr B contacting them on 24 February 2020 to 
check if payments had been received, there was no discussion about this. This was a 
missed opportunity to discuss the arrears and to set up a suitable repayment pan. Had this 
happened I believe its most likely the termination couldve been avoided.
 Although I accept VWFS had tried to contact Mr B by email, there is no indication this was in 
relation to setting up a repayment plan. They said the default letter was reissued and they 
sent him two SMS messages about the account so Mr B wouldve been aware that they 
were looking to end the agreement. Mr B said he never received this and while I believe 
most likely these were sent as they were correctly addressed, I must take into consideration 
Mr Bs testimony. He said despite still being ill and requiring to go back and forth to medical 
appointments, he returned to work as a medical professional and this was at the height of 
the Covid-19 pandemic so he didnt see the correspondence. 
The agreement was terminated within three months of Mr B returning to work. However I 
think the fairest way of continuing to support Mr B wouldve been to set up a repayment plan 
based on his affordability in January 2020. This wouldve given Mr B the time, structure and 
opportunity to bring the account back up to date. Its unfortunate this didnt happen and the 
lines of communication didnt continue as this situation couldve ben avoided. 
Given Mr B had made three payments between January and March 2020 (which is when the 
agreement was terminated) and another 13 thereafter leads me to believe he was willing, 
capable and had the necessary funds to clear these arrears and bring the account back up 
to date had hed been given the time and opportunity to do so. After returning to work for 
approximately two months on a phased return basis, I dont think it was reasonable for 
VWFS to expect Mr B to clear the arrears before March 2020. I find in the overall 
circumstances, VWFS was too quick to terminate the agreement and forbearance and due 
consideration wasnt shown of his individual circumstances in January 2020 when he 
returned back to work. Therefore I dont believe VWFS acted fairly by terminating the 
agreement in March 2020. 
Im glad to see VWFS have been open and willing to explore other options in this case and 
in terms of what theyve offered as a resolution by withdrawing the termination, I believe this  
to be a fair and reasonable resolution. This is because it restores Mr B as near as possible 
to the position he wouldve been in immediately prior to the agreement being terminated. So 
Im glad to hear Mr B has agreed to VWFS proposed resolution and he will give the car back 
and pay the outstanding balance accordingly.
To put things right, VWFS should treat the agreement as if no termination had taken place 
and remove adverse information from him credit file about the termination. However, I must 
stress VWFS has an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies therefore theyre entitled to report adverse information such as instances of late or 
missed payments throughout the duration of the agreement. 
VWFS should accept the return of the car whereby Mr B will be required to pay the balance 
of £3,222 plus any charges for damages and excess mileage. In lines with the terms of the 
agreement, I find VWFS are entitled to charge such fees. As agreed, VWFS should set up a 
suitable repayment plan based on what Mr B can afford in order to pay this outstanding 
balance. 
Lastly, Ive thought about the impact this situation has had on Mr B and the worry it has 
caused by being told the agreement had been terminated during what was already a difficult 
time. In light of this, I believe VWFS should also pay £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint.To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
- Treat the agreement as if no termination had taken place;
- To allow the car to be handed back and for Mr B to pay the outstanding balance of 
£3,222.66 plus any charges for damages to the car or excess mileage as per the 
terms of the agreement;
- To set up a suitable repayment plan for the above balance to be paid based on Mr 
Bs affordability. Any charges for damages and excess mileage should be included in 
this repayment plan;
- Remove the adverse information about the termination from Mr Bs credit file;
- Pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman