DRN-3650335
The complaint and what happened
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave him incorrect information 
in August 2021 about his mortgage which caused him to miss out on a beneficial interest 
rate deal. He would like the interest rate on his mortgage amended to the one which was on 
offer to him in August 2021.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from August 2022, which form part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because the evidence led me to conclude that Mr P 
would have paid the necessary Early Repayment Charge (ERC) in August 2021 in order to 
secure the relevant interest rate deal. Due to Halifaxs mistake, he missed out on that.
I asked both Mr P and Halifax to let me have any more information they wanted me to 
consider. Both parties accepted my findings, and provided some further submissions about 
how things should be put right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding it, and I will include some relevant sections from my 
provisional decision to explain why:
What happened
In August 2021 Mr P enquired about a possible product transfer for his mortgage, onto a 
fixed rate of 1.41% for a five-year term. A Halifax mortgage advisor informed him that if 
he wished to switch at that point, hed have to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of 
about £5,400. But that, if he waited until November 2021, the ERC would reduce to 
£1,270.
Accepting there was a risk that the 1.41% deal might not be still available come 
November, Mr P decided to wait as he believed the reduction in ERC would likely make 
that a better option.
In November 2021 it transpired that what Mr P had been told in August was incorrect, 
and in fact the ERC continued to be in excess of £5,000. The best interest rate available 
on a five-year fixed term in November 2021 was also higher at 1.59%.
Mr P therefore says that the incorrect information given to him in August 2021 has led 
him to be financially disadvantaged because he has missed out on the better fixed 
rate, which he would have been willing to pay the ERC for had he known the true 
situation.
On receiving Mr Ps complaint, Halifax accepted that its advisor misinformed Mr P, but 
was only prepared to offer him £500 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P came to our service. The investigator looked at the 
evidence and thought Halifax didnt need to do anything more. Mr P disagreed and asked 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Halifax accepts that its advisor gave Mr P the wrong information. But it hasnt accepted that, 
had the information been correct, Mr P would have done anything differently. So it doesnt 
think that its mistake has caused him a financial loss.
The investigator also thought that Mr P likely wouldnt have paid the £5,400 ERC in August 
2021 in order to move onto the 1.41% interest rate. So, again, that there was no financial loss 
to Mr P.
However, I think it is more likely than not that Mr P would have paid the £5,400 ERC in 
August 2021 in order to make the product transfer. I say that because I can see from emails 
at the time to the advisor that Mr P had clearly made a series of calculations so as to 
understand which options would be better for him over the five-year term. And that he had 
more than enough savings to cover that expense, which he discussed in one of his emails to 
the mortgage advisor on 24 August 2021.
I asked Halifax for some information to enable me to confirm the loss that this mistake has 
caused to Mr P, given putting it right would, of course, involve Mr P having to now pay the 
ERC of £5,400. But it was unable to give me what I asked for, and only considered whether 
Mr Ps position would have been different as of now, July 2022. However, the question is how 
Mr Ps position would have been impacted from August 2021 to September 2026, when this 
fixed rate deal would have likely expired had the transfer gone ahead.
Based on the evidence I have, Im satisfied that Mr P would have paid the ERC in August 
2021 to secure the 1.41% fixed rate five-year deal, and that that change would have been 
financially advantageous to him. Therefore I do think Halifaxs mistake has led to a financial 
loss, which it must put right.
As both parties have accepted my findings, I have no reason to change the outcome. It 
therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I am grateful to both Halifax and Mr P for replying promptly to my provisional decision with 
some further details to enable me to make definitive directions about redress. So, in order to 
put Mr P back in the position he would have been in but for its mistake, I direct Halifax to do 
the following:
A) Restructure the mortgage, made up of three sub accounts, onto the 5-year fixed rate deal 
at 1.41%, backdated to 1 August 2021 - fixed until September 2026.
B) Accept a payment of £5,400.29 from Mr P, which would have been the ERC on 1 August 
2021.
C) To account for the overpayments made by Mr P since 1 August 2021, due to a higher 
interest rate being applied, Halifax must apply the overpayments to his mortgage account to 
further reduce his balance which will in turn reduce the amount of interest he pays on the 
new interest applied until the end of the fixed term period.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Bank of Scotland plc to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman