DRN-3140105
The complaint
Mr D complained about the amount of compensation TSB Bank Plc paid him when TSBs IT 
problems meant he couldnt make a payment which he wanted to.
What happened
Mr D said that in the week starting 23 April 2018, he wanted to make a payment to his 
wedding venue, but it wouldnt go through. He went to a local cash machine to check his 
balance, where an incorrect, negative, balance was showing. Mr D tried repeatedly to phone 
TSB, and had a lot of trouble getting through, only to be told the systems were down. He 
also visited a branch several times, where he was told the systems were down or 
intermittent.
On 11 September 2018, Mr D complained to TSB. He said that hed been getting married 
and in April hed tried to make a payment to his wedding venue, but couldnt. 
On 2 March 2019, Mr D rang TSB. He said he was now married and lived at a different 
address. He said he was happy to keep the account address as his former address, which 
was his parents address. He said hed recently picked up a lot of acknowledgement letters 
about the complaint, and he just didnt want anything to do with it any more, and just wanted 
it withdrawn and closed. TSB issued a letter confirming the closure on 26 March 2019.
In June 2019, Mr D completed an online form. He said hed asked for the complaint to be put 
on hold, not closed. He said hed moved, and had asked for no more correspondence to be 
sent. And he was shocked to have received a letter saying hed asked for the complaint to 
be closed.
TSB sent a Final Response letter on 26 May 2020. It didnt uphold Mr Ds new, June, 2019, 
complaint points. But it accepted that there had been system problems in April 2018, and 
paid Mr D £250 compensation, plus £50 expenses.
Mr D wasnt satisfied, and TSB gave him an email address to send evidence of any losses. 
He sent a copy of his wedding booking, dated 2 March 2018. This showed that the total 
would be £7,500 for the wedding in May. Three payments had been made up totalling 
£3,500, leaving £4,000 balance. TSB said this didnt show evidence that the venue had 
cancelled, which it would have confirmed in writing.
In November 2020, Mr D complained to this service. He said that thanks to TSB I ended up 
losing my wedding venue on 12 May and ended up having to be rescheduled for 19 May 
which came at considerable extra cost. He also said that hed had to grovel to various 
suppliers for my wedding and had had to go to the doctor for medication for stress and 
anxiety. Mr D said that TSBs compensation was completely inadequate and he wanted it to 
refund him for the lost deposit. He sent a copy of the wedding invoice showing the terms and 
conditions which said that all deposits are non transferable and non refundable.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said that TSBs IT issues were widely 
known at the time, so she didnt doubt that Mr D had been affected. But in order to hold TSB 
responsible, shed have to see clear evidence that Mr D had been prevented from making 
the payment by TSBs IT issues, and that was the reason for the cancellation. She said 
shed also have to be reasonably certain that there had been no other way Mr D could have 
make the payment. Shed seen no evidence that the venue had cancelled because Mr D 
hadnt been able to make the payment on time. Nor had Mr D provided evidence to back up 
his statement that hed had to contact many other companies as well, which had cancelled 
arrangements because he hadnt been able to pay. So she thought the £250 plus £50 
expenses, which TSB had paid, was fair.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that TSB branch staff had confirmed that its IT issues had caused 
problems, and as a consumer he didnt know what clear evidence he could provide. He 
said his TSB statements would show that hed previously withdrawn cash, which hed used 
for deposits. He said that the fact hed been prescribed antidepressants indicated the impact 
on him. He also asked about his complaint about his incorrect address.
Mr D said the companies hed dealt with had communicated by text and face to face 
meetings, only taking cash, though he sent an invoice from a video company which included 
£450 for date change fee. 
Mr D also forwarded an email which he said the venue had sent to him, saying that as it 
hadnt received the balance, it had allocated the date elsewhere. It offered the alternative 
date but said the deposit wasnt transferable.
The investigator didnt change her view. She said that although the new evidence showed 
the date had been changed, shed have expected to see evidence that Mr D had contacted 
the venue, and other service providers, to explain this was a bank fault. The call recording 
between Mr D and TSB had shown that hed said he hadnt notified TSB before of his new 
address, and was happy with bank statements going to his parents address. And the 
adviser had told Mr D that he could change his correspondence from post to online. So she 
didnt accept that the adviser had done anything wrong.
Mr D still disagreed. He said it was quite ridiculous that the investigator had said shed have 
expected to see evidence of Mr D contacting the venue and other providers. Mr D said TSB 
was his main bank account, and it was quite absurd to think hed purposely not pay the 
outstanding balance and put himself through all the stress and extra financial burden. Mr D 
said his original testimony and original information should demonstrate his case already. But 
he sent new information, including:
- an email from the venue dated 3 May 2018, saying that it appreciated there had been 
IT issues but as the final payment hadnt been received within 14 days of the 
wedding, the date had been given to someone else. It offered 19 May, with a £500 
reduction;
- texts with another supplier. These included one on 2 May saying having lots of 
issues with my bank TSB. They have system problems so I havent been able to 
make my final payment to my venue, thankfully they understand the delay.
- The texts with the other supplier also show that they changed the date but with a 
£450 charge for the change.
Mr D also said that his complaint about correspondence sent to his parents address hadnt 
been about the call with TSB. Hed asked local branch staff to change his address because 
hed fallen out with his parents, and the branch hadnt done so. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Im considering
First, its important to set out that what Im considering is whether or not TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr D in regards to his complaint. This means that I look at what TSB 
decided, on the evidence Mr D had provided to them at the time.
So I cant take into account the extra emails and texts which Mr D sent to this service in 
October 2021  because Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr D sent any of these to TSB at 
the time of his original complaint in 2018. Nor did he send these when his complaint was 
reopened in 2019, nor when TSB issued its final response in May 2020 but invited him to 
send in any extra documentation. In deciding whether or not TSB acted fairly and reasonably 
in regards to Mr Ds complaint, what I can consider is only the evidence TSB had at the time.
Compensation 
Its well known that TSB had severe IT problems in April 2018. Many account holders had 
severe inconvenience as a result. I accept that its probable that Mr D, like other customers, 
wanted to carry out transactions, but wasnt able to do so. So whats in dispute here is what 
would be fair and reasonable compensation.  Compensation varies according to individual 
circumstances of the case.
In the phone call of 2 March 2019, Mr D made it clear both to the initial adviser, and to the 
second adviser to whom he was transferred, that he wanted the complaint closed, saying he 
just didnt want anything to do with it any more, and just wanted it withdrawn and closed. So 
it didnt appear that at that point he was significantly concerned about it.  As Mr D repeated 
several times that he wanted to close the account, I find that TSB acted fairly when it didnt 
uphold his June 2019 complaint points saying he hadnt asked for his complaint to be closed.
After Mr D went back to TSB some months later, TSB provided him with an email address so 
he could send evidence of any financial loss resulting from the IT issues. What Mr D 
provided was the March 2018 invoice for his wedding venue. This shows that at that point 
hed paid £3,500, and it shows the terms and conditions, including the fact that deposits 
werent refundable. But this document isnt evidence that TSBs IT issues had resulted in the 
venue cancelling Mr Ds booking because he didnt pay the balance on time. As Mr D didnt 
provide TSB with evidence at the time, I find that TSB acted reasonably in not refunding Mr 
D for any financial loss.
Ive considered TSBs compensation of £250 plus £50 expenses for the inconvenience of its 
IT failures, and I find that this was fair.
Mr Ds address
In the March 2019 call, the question of Mr Ds address was raised. Mr D said he hadnt 
notified TSB before about his new address, and he also said he was happy for his bank 
statements to continue to go to his parents address, but he didnt want other 
correspondence to go there and he wanted the complaint closed. The adviser said he could 
turn off correspondence online. She also said that it wasnt possible for TSB to turn off all 
correspondence to the address it had, so she advised Mr D to change his address as soon 
as he could. Mr D said hed do that. 
As Mr D hadnt previously notified TSB of his new address, I find that it wasnt TSBs fault 
that correspondence about the complaint had gone out to his registered address. Having listened to the call, I consider that the adviser gave Mr D the correct advice about changing 
his address. 
I note that, after our investigator issued her view, Mr D said that it was a branch he was 
complaining about, which hadnt processed his change of address. But Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr D complained to TSB about the actions of any branch. 
So I find TSB acted fairly and reasonably on the evidence it had, and I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman