DRN-2948905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has dealt
with their claim under a new home Buildmark policy for damage and defects in their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps house required significant remedial works. The original contractor went bust, 
so NHBC stepped in to remedy the damage and defects under the terms of the policy.
When this complaint originally came to us, a few issues remained outstanding, although for 
the purposes of my decision, there were only two matters left for me to decide, the rest 
having been settled already. They were as follows:
1. That the windows and doors had been badly fitted and Mr and Mrs P were concerned 
whether they were weatherproof; and
2. Whilst the fitting of the windows and doors had been registered with an industry regulator 
for the purposes of building control approval, the name on the certificate is not that of the 
company that Mr and Mrs P think installed the windows and doors. Mr and Mrs P consider 
the certificate to be invalid.
NHBC appointed a contractor, S, to do the required works on Mr and Mrs Ps house. One of 
the defects to be remedied was to replace certain windows and doors. That work was 
completed, although there is a dispute as to which company did the work. NHBC say it was 
a specialist sub-contractor, R. Mr and Mrs P say that they never had anything to do with R 
and that it was S carpenters that poorly fitted the windows.
This is important, because a government approved certification scheme has issued a 
Building Regulation Compliance Certificate for work done by the window installer, R. If R 
wasnt involved in the installation, the certificate, and the consequent building regulation 
approval that it provides, could be called into question.
NHBC is satisfied that the windows were fitted correctly by R and that any problems with the 
fitting had been rectified. So, I needed to determine if the windows were more likely than not 
fitted by R. If I found that they were, then they would be covered by the existing compliance 
certificate and hence building regulation consent would not be called into question.
But if I found that R wasnt involved in the fitting, then the compliance certificate issued could 
be questionable, and this would put in doubt whether there is building regulation consent for 
the installation. NHBC would then have to remedy this.
Prior to this final decision, I issued two provisional decisions. In the first of those, I found that 
R hadnt been involved in fitting the windows. So, the validity of the certificate was in 
question. But I didnt consider that there was sufficient evidence for me to conclude that the 
fitting was so poor that it needed remedying.
In determining what would be fair compensation, I initially provisionally decided that Mr and 
Mrs Ps windows and doors should be removed and refitted, with any damage done in the 
process made good. I said that this would be for NHBC to arrange. And I provided that 
quotes should be obtained, so that if Mr and Mrs P preferred, a cash settlement could be 
agreed.
Following the first provisional decision, there was significant further correspondence 
between this service and the parties. NHBC were unhappy with a number of my findings. But 
they agreed to do what Id suggested to bring an end to this matter. Mr and Mrs P had their 
doubts that the proposed outcome would see the windows being re-certified. And they were 
worried that removing them may void their 10-year guarantee. But they too said that they 
were prepared to consider a reasonable cash settlement for the work, and that this should 
take into account any damage that may be done to their home in the process.
Sadly, it transpired that it wasnt possible to get the quotes that Id asked for in my decision. 
Following the start of the pandemic and the numerous intervening lockdowns, despite both 
parties trying very hard to get contractors to attend, nobody had been prepared to fully quote 
for this work. This understandably left Mr and Mrs P very frustrated. NHBC ultimately got one 
contractor to quote for the job. But this had to be done via a desk-top survey. Half of which 
was completed by NHBC and the other by the contractor. Mr and Mrs P were sceptical about 
the contents of the estimate, which had to be amended a number of times.
After that estimate was provided, NHBC offered to cash settle this complaint for £6,195.38, 
being the total value of the estimated works. Mr and Mrs P asked that I determine again 
what I think would be fair compensation.
In my second provisional decision, I said that I still intended to uphold this complaint in part. 
And my provisional findings and proposed redress are set out below. Both Mr and Mrs P and 
NHBC accepted those findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The findings I made in my second provisional decision were as follows: 
I have reviewed the desk-top estimate that NHBC has provided. And I am sympathetic 
toward Mr and Mrs Ps criticism of it. But I also acknowledge that NHBC has tried to 
provide a compromise here to account for the fact that nobody could get any contractors to 
attend, during what has been an unprecedented period for everyone over the last year and 
a half.
With that in mind, having thought carefully about what would be best in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I have provisionally decided that a cash settlement would 
be the most fair and reasonable redress for this complaint. This will see an end to Mr and 
Mrs P having to deal with NHBC further - which I know is their preference. And NHBC 
similarly will be able to draw a line under this claim.
Whilst I accept that the one quote that we have isnt perfect. And I appreciate that its 
difficult to estimate in advance any damage that might be done to the property by any work 
that Mr and Mrs P ultimately decide to do, I am satisfied that the amount of NHBCs offer 
does amount to fair compensation. From my personal experience, it is in the ballpark of 
what I was expecting that this work might cost. And, indeed, it is slightly above what I 
thought may be quoted.
NHBCs offer includes a 16% uplift for what a private contractor, not obliged to provide 
preferable industry rates to NHBC, might charge. And it also includes 20% VAT which, if Mr and Mrs P choose not to do all of the work which has been quoted for, isnt something that I 
would have expected NHBC to indemnify them for in any event.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P may well still be nervous to accept an offer of compensation 
where NHBC have been instrumental in providing the quote upon which it is based. But in 
all the circumstances, and with the ongoing difficulties prevailing in the construction industry, 
I dont think that there is a fairer way of determining compensation at this time. And this 
settlement sum should allow Mr and Mrs P to do as much or as little work on their house as 
they feel is required to satisfy their concerns, without any further outside influence.
So, taking everything into account, I think that the offer made by NHBC to cash-settle this
complaint amounts to fair compensation.
Given that both parties have accepted my second provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change my above findings, which I adopt in full in this final decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require that National House-Building 
Council pay Mr and Mrs P the sum of £6,195.38 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman