DRN-2437836
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has overcharged him for his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P took out a Home Solutions home insurance policy with Lloyds in 2016. He paid £294.01 
for his annual premium. The policy automatically renewed in 2017, when Mr P paid £354.41. 
In 2018, after receiving his renewal quote, Mr P called Lloyds to discuss the quoted price. 
Lloyds offered Mr P a discount on the annual price, so in that year, he paid £433.02. The 
policy automatically renewed again in 2019 and Mr P paid £441.39 for cover during that 
policy year. 
When Mr P received his renewal quote in 2020, he noticed the price had increased again to 
£535.27. He felt the price was too high and he called Lloyds to talk about it. Lloyds explained 
that Mr P could change the level of cover the policy offered, which would reduce the price. 
Ultimately, Mr P was able to find home insurance with another insurer for around £119  
over £400 cheaper than the policy hed had with Lloyds. He was unhappy with the price hed 
been quoted, especially given the significant difference in price. And he said Lloyds had told 
him that it only notifies policyholders about alternative policies or discounts if they 
complained about their renewal quotes, which he felt was unfair. He asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She explained that as were 
not the industry regulator, we cant control the price insurers charge for their policies. She 
explained though that we can look at whether Lloyds acted fairly when it calculated the price. 
She felt Lloyds had shown that itd priced its policies consistently and fairly and hadnt 
treated Mr P differently to any of its other customers.
Mr P disagreed. He said that when he called Lloyds in 2018, he wasnt offered an alternative 
policy and that he thought the discount hed been given was ongoing. In 2019, hed been 
going through a very stressful time nursing his wife and he didnt check the renewal 
carefully. He noticed that Lloyds had recouped its discount and increased the price. In 2020, 
he noticed thered been an 81% increase in price since 2016, which was unacceptable. It 
didnt offer any options or alternatives. Hed seen a TV programme which suggested that 
insurers had agreed to offer alternative policies in answer to complaints  but Lloyds hadnt 
done so. He felt Lloyds was penalising loyal customers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, our role isnt to set the price of insurance This is a commercial 
judgement and something for insurers to decide. We cant tell insurers what factors they 
should take into account when assessing the risk of a policyholder making a claim, or what 
price they should charge to cover that risk. But we can make sure customers have been 
treated fairly when insurers have priced their policies and that they havent been taken 
advantage of.
Mr Ps unhappy because hes now been able to find home insurance which covers him for 
significantly less than the price he paid Lloyds over the years and was quoted in 2020. I 
understand that Mr P feels that Lloyds renewal price seems very expensive and so its 
natural that he thinks it might be unfair. But as Ive said, its down to each individual insurer 
to calculate the price it wishes to charge to a cover a specific risk. However, different policies 
will offer different levels of cover. And any new policy hes found could include a new 
customer discount, meaning its not reflective of the actual cost of the policy to the insurer.
Each price will be right for that particular insurer and its view of the risk and they all may be 
based on different things. Some will include new customer discounts, other may only be 
operated online and so have cheaper costs which can sometimes be reflected in cheaper 
fees. And others may offer a dedicated specialist claim handling service and support lines, 
all increasing the cost but potentially the level of service offered too. Overall, insurers offer 
products which they feel represent fair value for what they are providing.
So just because Mr Ps now been able to get cheaper insurance with another insurer, I dont 
think it would be fair to say that Lloyds got the price wrong so long as Im satisfied that it 
treated Mr P in the same way it wouldve treated any of its other customers.
Although Mr P didnt engage with Lloyds at renewal in 2017, he did get in touch with it in 
2018 to discuss the price. At this point, it was able to offer Mr P a discount on the amount it 
charged him. This was a commercial decision it was entitled to make. Its also told us that 
while it did have another policy available at the time Mr P called, he told it he was happy with 
the cover he already had and so it didnt think he had a need for an alternative policy. It told 
us that even if it had offered Mr P another policy, the target price for it wouldve been 
£496.23. But Mr P paid below this amount. 
Lloyds has told us that Mr P has always paid below its target price and its told us how its 
target pricing model applies to Mr Ps policy. The target pricing model demonstrates whether 
Lloyds treated Mr P fairly. It allows us to see whether what he was charged was in line with 
how its said it treats all of its policyholders  regardless of whether they engage with it. Im 
afraid I cant share the detail of its model with Mr P as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds 
business. This means its confidential. But I hope it reassures Mr P to know Ive checked 
what hes paid. And Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt charge Mr P more than its target price 
during the time he had the policy. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr P feels about his complaint. And Im sorry to hear about the 
loss of his wife. But the evidence Ive seen shows me that Lloyds treated Mr P fairly and 
didnt single him out in any way. So Im not telling it to pay him anything.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman