DRN-3242457
The complaint
Ms S complains BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services 
(BMWFS) provided her with an incorrect settlement quote to end her car finance agreement 
which has led to a balance still outstanding.
What happened
In September 2018, Ms S entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase (PCP) 
agreement with BMWFS for a new car. She was required to pay £265 per month followed by 
an optional final payment of £8,069.
At the end of March 2020, Ms S contacted BMWFS to say due to the Covid-19 pandemic 
she was experiencing financial difficulty. In line with the financial regulators guidance about 
those impacted by the pandemic, in May 2020 BMWFS agreed to a three month payment 
deferral starting from June to August 2020. As Ms Ss situation hadnt changed on 11 August 
2020 they agreed to a further three month payment deferral due to start in September 2020.
On 26 August 2020, Ms S contacted BMWFS to request a quote to settle the agreement. 
She said she specifically asked how much it would be to settle the agreement in full so no 
more money was owed. Ms S proceeded to settle the account that day. However a short 
time thereafter, she complained she was receiving arrears communication saying there was 
an outstanding balance of £265. Ms S complained. 
BMWFS said the settlement quotation is automatically generated and it explains the quote is 
provided on the assumption that any monthly instalment that is being processed clears into 
their account. They said the quotation was valid up to 23 September 2020 but a payment 
was due on 1 September 2020 which was in the process of being collected. Meaning the 
settlement figure was £14,633 plus the £265 due on 1 September 2020, thereby totalling 
£14,898. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said the quotation made it clear the monthly 
payment due had to be paid. However as Ms S cancelled her direct debit this payment 
wasnt received meaning £265 was still owed to BMWFS. They concluded BMWFS had 
acted fairly. 
Ms S disagreed. She said when she spoke to BMWFS by phone on 26 August 2020, she 
specifically asked the advisor to provide the final amount to settle the agreement so no 
further monies were owed and she relied on what she was told during this call. She 
requested the investigator listen to this call.
This was requested but BMWFS said due to the passage of time, it wasnt available. Based 
on the further testimony from Ms S about the call and how she relied on what she was told, 
the investigator changed their opinion. They said they were persuaded by what she had said 
and the information in the written quotation may not have been clear or available to her at 
the time she made the payment. They concluded as Ms S intended to settle the account that 
day as she was due to sell the car, it wouldve been reasonable for BMWFS to provide her 
with a settlement amount which included the upcoming payment of 1 September 2020. To 
put things right, the investigator said BMWFS should:
- Reduce the £265 balance by 50% (meaning Ms S only paid half);
- Ensure no adverse information was recorded on Ms Ss credit file once the payment 
had been made.
BMWFS disagreed. They said the normal process is to share the settlement quote in writing 
so that the buyer has all the relevant information to be able to settle the agreement. They 
sent the quotation by email which made it clear what was needed to settle the account in full. 
They maintained they hadnt done anything wrong. However they said to be fair to Ms S they 
would remove any adverse information from her credit file relating to this balance providing 
she pays it in full.
 
In November 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Ms Ss complaint. 
Based on their submissions, its clear Ms S and BMWFS dispute what was said during the 
call of 26 August 2020. Ideally I wouldve liked to have been provided with a copy so I could 
hear exactly what was said. However as mentioned above, the call is no longer obtainable 
so my decision is based on the information available.
Ive carefully considered what Ms S has said about how she asked for a final amount to 
settle the account in full as she intended on selling the car that day and how she relied on 
what she was told during the call. Ive also reviewed BMWFS contact notes as this gives a 
brief description of their communication with Ms S. Having done so, I can see a call did take 
place on 26 August 2020. The notes say:
Customer called requesting settlement. Expires - 23/09/2020. Letters sent via email
A later entry on the same day says:
Customer called regarding payment - Advised customer we received partial payment of £1 
in bank - Customer will be making final payment today
This would suggest the settlement quotation was sent to Ms S first then later she called 
about how to make a payment. There is nothing to suggest this wasnt received by her. 
Ive reviewed the written settlement quotation and having done so I believe its clear that any 
payments due would still need to be paid. I say this because the letter sets out the 
settlement figure and outlines the amount of rebate and arrears. It also says the following:
The final settlement figure is based on the remaining balance due under the agreement, 
including any arrears (if applicable), minus a rebate of charges included in the total charge 
for credit, which includes a rebate of interest. The amount of the rebate is calculated in 
accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the 
Regulations). It assumes any monthly repayment which we are currently processing will still 
be paid (in addition to the settlement figure).
When Ms S complained, she asked BMWFS to listen to the call which they did in October 
2020. Their notes say Call was reviewed. Agent did not misadvise customer. Agent advise 
settlement on basis that the next payment which is soon will be clearing. As this call was 
listened to by a member of staff who wasnt involved in the original call, I think its 
reasonable for me to take this into account.  However I also must consider that a three month payment deferral was due to start in 
September 2020. So although BMWFS has said the payment on 1 September 2020 was due 
to be collected, technically speaking that wasnt the case because it wouldve been deferred. 
But at the time the quotation was automatically generated on 26 August 2020, Septembers 
payment was due therefore it wouldnt be considered as arrears for the purposes of the 
written quotation which specifies any arrears owing. 
I cant say with any certainty what exactly was said in the call but what I do know is BMWFS 
reviewed it at the time Ms S complained and they concluded Ms S was told the next 
payment would need to be paid. Meanwhile the written quotation says assuming any 
monthly repayment which we are currently processing will still be paid. There is no 
suggestion Ms S understood this to mean the next payment at the end of the extended three 
month payment deferral. While I accept BMWFS shouldve been more clear about this, on 
balance I think its fair to say they were referring to the payment in September 2020 and it 
wouldve been reasonable for Ms S to understand this is what they were referring to. 
I appreciate Ms S feels strongly about the matter and the situation has caused her upset 
because she thought the agreement had been settled in full without any further sums owed. 
However taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude BMWFS gave her 
incorrect information about how much she needed to pay to settle the agreement. Therefore 
it wouldnt be fair to ask them to waive this outstanding balance. As this is money Ms S owes 
to BMWFS, its fair its paid. Theyve also said they would remove any adverse information 
from her credit file relating to this amount providing Ms S pays it in full. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I strongly encourage Ms S to contact BMWFS to pay the remaining balance and I would like 
to take this opportunity to remind them to show forbearance and due consideration if Ms S is 
still experiencing financial difficulty.
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. BMWFS provided no further 
comment. In summary, Ms S said:
-  She asked on more than one occasion for the final amount to settle the agreement in full 
so no further money was owed;
- The advisor mentioned Septembers payment but she asked for this amount is added to the 
overall figure to settle the agreement in full;
- The buyer of the car heard her telephone conversation with BMWFS advisor;
- She didnt receive the written settlement quotation sent by email;
- She wouldnt have sold the car for the amount she did knowing money was still owed;
- She is willing to pay half of the outstanding balance but not the whole amount as she 
doesnt believe she did anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms S for her further comments. I recognise my provisional findings came as a 
disappointment to her. However I find the points made are of similar nature to what was 
provided previously which Ive already taken into account. I dont consider there to be new 
information that changes my overall decision. I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman