DRN-1841625
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Exeter Friendly Society Limited (The Exeter) declined a claim made 
on her private health insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A has had the benefit of a medical insurance policy which shes renewed year on year. 
In mid-2018 she had cataract surgery on one eye and then laser treatment to open a hole in 
that eye. The costs of both treatments were covered under the policy.
In early January 2019, Mrs A contacted The Exeter and spoke to one of its representatives. 
She explained that her eyesight still wasnt perfect, and she had booked an appointment with 
a consultant. The representative approved that appointment and Mrs A said if they couldnt 
improve her sight with the new lens, they might have to laser it. She asked whether this 
would be covered. The representative said that would be covered but if needed, he asked 
Mrs A to revert to The Exeter so that it could be separately authorised.
Mrs A called The Exeter on 4 March 2019. She said laser treatment had been recommended 
by the consultant. She didnt have a procedural code for the treatment. So, she was asked to 
forward a copy of the consultants letter for to the Exeter and, upon review, it would look to 
cover.
On 8 March 2019, Mrs A called The Exeter to confirm that shed emailed the letter and her 
laser treatment had been booked for 21 Mach 2019. She was told that the letter would be 
reviewed, and someone would get back to her. 
By 14 March 2019, Mrs A hadnt heard anything, so she contacted The Exeter for an update. 
She was told that the letter was in the process of being reviewed. 
On 18 March 2019, one of The Exeters representatives contacted Mrs A and said that the 
particular laser procedure wanted covered  LASIK - wasnt covered under the policy as its 
used to correct myopia, hyperopia and astigmatism. Mrs A proceeded with the LASIK 
procedure on 21 March 2019, which she says she paid for herself.
Mrs A doesnt think The Exeter has treated her fairly. She doesnt agree with the reasons its 
put forward to decline her claim; she says the LASIK procedure was to correct blurred vision 
following her cataract surgery. She also said laser treatment had been approved during her 
call with the Exeter in early January 2019.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Whilst she understood her disappointment, 
she didnt think The Exeter had unfairly declined her claim by relying on the exclusions in the 
policy terms. 
Mrs A disagreed with our investigators opinion.  She said the LASIK procedure was on her 
replacement lens to correct blurred vision caused by her new lens following her cataract 
operation. So it was an integral part of the cataract procedure and should be covered under 
the policy.
Mrs As complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. I know shell be disappointed with my 
decision but hopefully shell understand the reasons when I explain why. 
Section 10 of the policy sets out whats not covered. That includes:
Treatment to correct long or short sight or astigmatism together with any
optical aids
I refer to this as the exclusion. 
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury. 
Looking at Mrs As consultants letters dated February and March 2019, Im satisfied that the 
LASIK procedure Mrs A wanted covered under the policy amounted to treatment.  But Im 
not persuaded that The Exeter has unfairly applied the exclusion to decline covering the cost 
of this procedure scheduled for 21 March 2019.
A letter from Mrs As consultant towards the end of February 2019 reflects that Mrs A has 
high myopia and compound hypertrophic astigmatism right eye. It also confirms that 
Mrs A had already had a different laser procedure shortly after her cataract surgery in 2018, 
which The Exeter covered under the policy as its a common post cataract treatment for 
blurred vision.
Mrs As consultants letter reflecting what was discussed in clinic at the of February 2019 
says: we feel that performing LASIK enhancement surgery on the right eye following 
cataract surgery would be a most suitable option to improving your vision.. 
Further, a letter from her consultant dated 5 March 2019 also says: Mrs As refraction 
remains stable in this eye and we shall therefore proceed with laser enhancement surgery to 
correct for her mild residual refractive error. She is very sensitive towards a minor refractive 
error and we shall therefore perform LASIK in due course.
The Exeters Chief Medical Officer concluded that the reason LASIK had been 
recommended wasnt to do with her cataract, it was because of Mrs As short sightedness. 
And that LASIK isnt a treatment for blurriness; its a vison correction laser.
Im satisfied that The Exeter has fairly and reasonably relied upon the medical opinion of its 
Chief Medical officer to decline the claim. Particularly as Mrs As consultants letters from 
February and March 2019 says Mrs A was experiencing high myopia and compound 
hypertrophic astigmatism  all issues that can be corrected by the LASIK procedure.Mrs A was told that The Exeter would look to cover laser treatment in January 2019. But at 
that time, it wasnt aware of the type of laser treatment Mrs A needed. And Mrs A was told 
that she would need to revert to The Exeter to obtain a separate authorisation if laser 
treatment was needed. I think she understood this. Thats why she contacted The Exeter in 
March 2019 to let them know about the advice shed received from the consultant. And then 
chased for a reply a week before the procedure was due to take place.
Mrs A called the Exeter on 8 March 2019 to let it know that shed emailed the consultants 
letter and chased again on 14 March 2019  four working days later. Its possible that The 
Exeter shouldve reviewed Mrs As correspondence a little earlier than it did given the 
procedure had been booked for 21 March 2019. If it had done so Mrs A wouldve been 
aware of the decision a day or two earlier than she was. But the decision wouldve still been 
the same.
 
So, I dont think any delay materially impacted Mrs A in this case. She was aware of The 
Exeters decision three working days before the date on which her procedure was due to 
take place, which I think was a reasonable amount of time for her to consider her options 
and decide not to proceed with it. It was, of course, a choice for her whether she wanted to 
go ahead, and I can see why she mightve wanted to. But as she did so, knowing that The 
Exeter had said it wouldnt cover the LASIK procedure under the policy, Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair to direct The Exeter to cover the cost which Mrs A ended up paying for.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman