DRN-4090881
The complaint
Miss H complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) undervalued her car after 
it was recorded as a total loss under her motor insurance policy. She also complains it 
unfairly cancelled her policy. 
What happened
Miss H has a motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
Unfortunately, Miss H was involved in a car accident. Her car was written off  known as a 
total loss  after Admiral said it was uneconomical to repair. Admiral settled Miss Hs claim 
less the policy excess and premium. 
Prior to the settlement Miss H complained about the handling of the claim. She said the 
valuation of her car wasnt enough and it wasnt fair the policy was cancelled.  Admiral said it 
had valued Miss Hs car correctly using the trade guides, although it did subsequently 
increase the pre-accident value. 
Admiral explained the market value doesnt necessarily mean the price paid for the car. 
Admiral said in order to obtain a vehicles value it uses industry recognised guides. Using 
this the valuation was calculated. Admiral initially calculated the value at £1445. But when it 
checked the figures it agreed to increase the value to £1545 which was the maximum value 
in one of the guides. Admiral apologised for providing Miss H with an initial incorrect 
valuation and paid £25 for the error.  Miss H remained unhappy so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said he didnt think Admiral treated Miss H 
fairly. He said he would only expect an insurer to cancel a policy if the consumer didnt want 
to add a replacement vehicle to the policy, or the insurer wouldnt accept the new vehicle 
due to its underwriting criteria, or the consumer didnt replace the vehicle within a reasonable 
time. But since Miss H was paying her premium monthly he didnt think it was fair for Admiral 
to deduct the outstanding amount in one lump sum without her agreement. The investigator 
said Admiral had paid Miss H less than the valuation in the trade guide and cancelled her 
policy. This left Miss H unable to purchase a new car and caused distress and 
inconvenience. 
So the investigator said Admiral should pay Miss H the balance of a fair market value with 
interest, allow Miss H to add her new vehicle to the policy subject to underwriting criteria, 
and pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral agreed to increase the valuation of the car and pay the difference. But didnt agree 
with the investigators view about the policy cancellation. It said the terms and conditions 
clearly advise if the car is deemed a total loss the policy will be cancelled. It didnt agree with 
the compensation offered and made an offer of £150 instead.  
Since Admiral didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation 
Miss Hs policy says, The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, 
year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened.... This value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
I need to consider whether Admiral used the right market value for the car under the terms of 
the policy. 
Valuing cars by using motor trade guides is standard practice in the industry. So our 
approach in these types of cases is to check the relevant trade guides and consider whether 
the insurer has made an offer thats in line with them. The guides are based on transaction 
data  actual selling prices  so give a more realistic indication of a cars value than adverts, 
which dont account for any negotiations that take place over the sale price. 
Admiral reviewed its initial valuation and agreed to increase it to the highest valuation from 
all four standard trade guides. Having considered the guides, the value Admiral applied to 
Miss Hs car was less than I would have expected, and certainly less than what I have seen 
in the evidence provided. 
Admiral said its valuation was based on Caps guide which gave a value of £1,545. But on 
review of its submission to this service the Caps valuation is £2,250. So I dont think Admiral 
has treated Miss H fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Cancelling the policy 
Miss Hs policy includes a term which says Admiral can, stop cover immediately and cancel 
your policy if your vehicle is deemed a total loss. The policy also says, if a claim has been 
made during the period of insurance you must pay the full premium and no refund will be 
given. 
Miss H made a claim on her policy in November 2022. So based on a strict application of the 
policy terms I accept Admiral is able to cancel her policy and charge her the full cost of the 
premium, and this is what it did. 
But my remit is also to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And in this 
case, I dont think a strict application of the policy terms is fair or reasonable. Miss H was 
unable to replace her vehicle due to the incorrect market valuation offered in settlement of 
the claim. Admiral then deducted the excess and the full premium from the incorrect figure. 
When Admiral declared the vehicle a total loss I would have expected it to offer Miss H the 
option of bringing a replacement vehicle onto the insurance policy, subject to its underwriting 
criteria, so the remainder of the policy term could be used. I would expect Admiral to allow a 
reasonable time for the consumer to do this. From what Ive seen Miss H was not given the 
option to add a new vehicle to her existing policy. I think had she been given that option its 
likely she would have explored this further with a view to replacing the car. Especially given 
the level of inconvenience and disruption caused by not having a vehicle. 
I note Admirals comments that it cannot allow a motor policy to remain active with no risk on 
cover, and that it wont reinstate Miss Hs direct debit. But I dont think its fair for Admiral to require the outstanding premium in one lump sum when it could have continued to collect it 
by instalments.
Because of this I think Admiral acted unfairly in cancelling Miss Hs policy and not refunding 
her premiums. And I require it to take steps to rectify this which I have detailed below. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what Admiral should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Miss H back in the position she would have been, had Admiral 
acted fairly in the first instance. 
In this situation, had Admiral acted fairly, I think it would have allowed Miss H to add a new 
vehicle to the policy and continued to collect the premiums by monthly direct debit. It would 
also have fairly paid her the market value for the vehicle; based on the top figure of the trade 
guides. I think this would have allowed Miss H to purchase a replacement vehicle and 
continue to pay for her policy in monthly instalments, subject to underwriting criteria. 
So I think Admiral should pay Miss H the difference between its final valuation of the claim at 
£1,545 to the correct value of £2,250, along with 8% from the date the claim was settled to 
the date of payment to recognise the length of time Miss H has been without access to these 
funds. 
And had Admiral settled the claim fairly in the first instance I dont think Miss H would have 
needed to continue to engage with Admiral and ourselves in an attempt to recoup the 
amounts she felt had been deducted unfairly. Im satisfied this has taken time and effort from 
Miss H, and I dont doubt it would have been both stressful and upsetting during that 
process. Our investigator recommended Admiral pay £350 to recognise this trouble and 
upset. I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach 
and what I would have directed, had it not already been made. So I intend to direct Admiral 
to pay this additional amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I uphold Miss Hs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited and I intend to direct it to take the following action;
Pay Miss H as follows; 
oIncreased valuation £2250
oLess excess £300
oLess remaining premium £698.45
oLess payment already made £546.55
oBalance £705 plus 8% interest from 21/11/2022
Allow Miss H to replace the car within 30 days of the expiry of this decision. If the car 
is an acceptable risk, Admiral should reinstate the policy and put the new car on 
cover. Depending on the make and model of the replacement vehicle, an additional 
premium may be required by Admiral. This should be calculated on a pro rata basis 
for the remainder of the policy term.
If Admiral is unable to do this for any reason Admiral should refund the remaining 
premium initially deducted from the claim settlement of £698.45Pay Miss H £350 to recognise the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman