DRN-2012684
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited has unfairly applied charges after 
she cancelled her policy following a failed payment collection attempt.
What happened
Mrs M renewed her car insurance policy in August 2019. During the renewal process she 
decided to add breakdown cover. And so a slightly higher premium was payable. This 
resulted in a new payments schedule (as Mrs M paid for her insurance monthly) being put in 
place, with the first premium due on 1 September 2019 for £28.78. 
Payments were to be made by direct debit. And a payment collection was attempted on 3 
September 2019. But this was returned unpaid. Hastings let Mrs M know about the failed 
collection. There was also a charge for the failed payment of £12. Unhappy with the 
correspondence she was sent, Mrs M decided to cancel the policy. The policy was cancelled 
on 11 September 2019. Hastings said Mrs M still owed £98.82, this was made up of fees for 
cancellation and non-payment, time on cover, a policy arrangement fee and credit interest. 
Mrs M was unhappy and so complained, she was satisfied there had been sufficient funds in 
her account to pay the direct debit and had been told by her bank Hastings had cancelled 
the mandate. Hastings looked into the complaint but was satisfied the payment collection 
had failed due to insufficient funds. It also reminded Mrs M of the amount owed and let her 
know that if arrangements werent made to pay, the account would be passed to a debt 
collection agent which would incur an additional fee.
 
Our investigator was initially satisfied Hastings hadnt done anything wrong. But on further 
investigations and as a result of information obtained by us, it had been shown by Mrs Ms 
bank that Hastings had actually cancelled the direct debit it tried to collect on about a week 
before the payment was due. She therefore asked Hastings to waive the £12 fee. However, 
she was satisfied the other fees were correct under the terms of the policy. She also didnt 
find the correspondence from Hastings inappropriate. 
Hastings agreed to waive the fee. But Mrs M remained unhappy with the outcome. She 
remains unhappy with the tone and timing of the correspondence she received. She argues 
she had provided evidence that the fault was not hers, but correspondence continued; she 
feels she should be compensated for the time and energy in sorting this matter. Further, she 
considers the remaining fees to be unfair. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M feels strongly about her complaint. But I can only ask Hastings to refund 
all of the fees if I find they arent allowed for under the terms and conditions, or if they have 
been applied unfairly. And I can only make an award for non-financial loss if I find it has 
done something wrong which has caused her distress and/or inconvenience. 
I understand Mrs M already had her car insurance through Hastings and it was up for 
renewal. If everything remained the same Mrs M need do nothing further and payments 
would be taken as usual. However, Mrs M decided to add breakdown cover at an additional 
cost. This meant her monthly premium increased. 
According to Mrs Ms bank it appears that resulted in Hastings sending through a new direct 
debit instruction as the mandate was for a different amount. And the information from her 
bank shows Hastings cancelled that new instruction on 22 August 2019. It would seem this 
was done in error as the old instruction remains active; it appears Hastings cancelled the 
new instruction instead of the old one. 
Whilst this was Hastings error, that wasnt clear until our investigator obtained information 
from Mrs Ms bank during the course of considering the complaint. And it wasnt until our 
involvement that her bank confirmed in correspondence the mandate had been cancelled on 
22 August  before the first payment attempt. So although I accept Mrs M may have argued 
she wasnt at fault for non-payment, persuasive evidence of that wasnt provided until after 
we had started investigations. 
I have considered whether Hastings ought to have been aware of this before. But having 
seen a copy of its records, these do show the direct debit was returned unpaid as cancelled 
by payer. This happens when there are insufficient funds, or the instruction has been 
cancelled by the bank or the account holder. So I can understand why Hastings took the 
position it did  particularly as Mrs Ms statement does show more was due to come out of 
her account that day than she had available.
 
As it has transpired this was Hastings error, I find it fair that it has agreed to refund the £12 
late payment fee that was applied. However, it doesnt necessarily follow that means it was 
wrong for it to correspond with Mrs M or apply other charges. 
The fees information provided to Mrs M at the time of renewal sets out the fees that could be 
applied. Aside from the late payment fee, Im satisfied the fees have been applied in 
accordance with the terms. I also find they were applied fairly  Mrs M chose to cancel the 
policy instead of make payment and continue with it, which of course was a choice she was 
entitled to make. But it did mean fees applied.  The amount of the fees is broadly in line with 
what I would expect, and I cant ignore that some of the amount owed was for the time the 
insurer was on risk and applicable interest.
As I havent found Hastings did anything in wrong in applying the fees, it follows that I dont 
find it was wrong to correspond with Mrs M about the outstanding balance. I appreciate she 
didnt agree she was at fault for non-payment at the time, but I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence she attempted to make payment for the amount owed or enter into a repayment 
plan. And when no payment proposals are made, it isnt unusual for an explanation to be 
provided that a debt collection agency might be used. The letters informed Mrs M of possible 
next steps, I dont find anything wrong in the tone, such that I would find the letters 
inappropriate, or amounted to bullying or harassment. I have considered whether I should make any award for non-financial loss. And although it 
has now transpired Hastings was at fault for the initial non-payment, I dont find it did 
anything else wrong either in applying the fees or asking Mrs M for payment of the 
outstanding balance. And whilst it took some time to get to this point, most of that time has 
been spent obtaining new evidence and information, which is all part of a complaint 
investigation. Having considered this carefully, I dont find an award is warranted in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited to reduce the amount owed by Mrs M by £12. If this has already 
been paid by Mrs M this should be refunded to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman