DRN-4096237
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against her travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in January 2022, Mrs C bought a single trip travel insurance 
policy underwritten by AWP. The policy was to cover a trip with intended departure and 
return dates of 5 September 2022 and 21 September 2022 respectively. 
I understand that in the early hours of 7 September 2022, whilst in the hotel room at the 
first destination, Mrs Cs auntie and travelling companion - who Ill refer to as Miss W - 
was injured. Miss W sought medical treatment with the assistance of Mrs C. The fitness 
to fly certificate indicates that Miss W suffered a suspected fracture of her pubic bone 
and that she could fly with assistance and a wheelchair. On 12 September 2022, Mrs C 
and Miss W were repatriated to the UK. 
On 15 September 2022, Mrs C made a claim against her travel insurance policy for 
curtailment of her trip from 7 September 2022. In December 2022, AWP settled Mrs Cs 
claim for curtailment from the date of repatriation  12 September 2022. Mrs C didnt 
think that was fair. 
Mrs C says that at the hospital on 7 September 2022, the doctor told Miss W that she 
couldnt weight-bear for three weeks. Miss W required a wheelchair and walking frame 
and Mrs C had to assist her in getting to the bathroom and to the hotel restaurant for 
meals. Mrs C says that she didnt leave the hotel and became Miss Ws carer. She 
thinks that AWP should settle the balance of her claim for curtailment. Mrs C also 
complains that AWP delayed in settling her claim and that it was difficult to make contact 
with AWP during the claims process. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that AWP hadnt 
responded to requests for information from this service, so she considered the complaint 
on the basis of the available information. 
The investigator didnt think that AWP had acted fairly. That was because she thought 
that Mrs Cs trip was effectively curtailed from the date Miss W sought treatment. The 
investigator recommended that AWP reconsider Mrs Cs claim for curtailment, in line 
with the remaining policy terms, from the date Miss W sought treatment. The investigator 
thought that AWPs previous offer of compensation of £100 in relation to service issues 
was reasonable. 
Mrs C accepted the investigators recommendation, but AWP didnt respond. As there 
was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
AWP hasnt responded to this services request for information, so Ive proceeded on the 
basis of the available information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Section D  Cancellation or curtailment
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £3,000 [] 
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected trip before commencement or curtail it 
before completion as a result of:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury or illness [] of you or a travelling companion.
[]
The insurer will pay either:
[]
2. the curtailment from the date you returned to your home country or the dates you were 
hospitalised as an in-patient or the date your quarantine period started;
of your irrecoverable portion of costs; for travel, air tickets, accommodation, pre-booked 
excursions, tours, courses and/or events up to the sum insured for any of the above 
reasons, which have not been used and you have paid or are contracted to pay. []
Note
The proportionate value of costs will be calculated either from the date of return to your 
home country or from the date you were hospitalised as an inpatient until the date you are 
discharged. The claim will only be based on the number of full days not used. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding Mrs Cs  
complaint because I dont think that AWP treated her fairly or reasonably. I say that because:   
Mrs Cs policy covers curtailment of a trip. In the circumstances that arose here,  
AWP will pay up to £3,000 for certain unused, irrecoverable costs because of an  
inability to complete the trip due to injury of a travelling companion. The policy says 
that the value of the costs will be calculated from the date of return to the home 
country and based on the number of full days not used. 
Mrs C returned home on 12 September 2022. In accordance with the terms of the 
policy, AWP may calculate the proportionate value of costs from that date. But Ive 
gone on to consider whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case. In doing so, its important to note that the policy doesnt cover loss of 
enjoyment. Im looking at whether Mrs Cs trip was effectively curtailed by what 
happened here. 
Ive looked at the trip itinerary. The dominant purpose of the trip was adventure, 
and the pace of the trip was described as Full on. There were several flights and 
other modes of transport. Mrs C says that she didnt do any of that as, at their first 
destination hotel, she was confined to the hotel in order to care for Miss W. Based 
on what Ive seen, I think that Mrs Cs trip was effectively curtailed from                  
7 September 2022. It follows that I dont think that its fair or reasonable for AWP to decline part of   
Mrs Cs claim on the basis that her trip was curtailed on the date she returned to 
the UK - 12 September 2022. In the particular circumstances here, I think its fair 
and reasonable for AWP to treat Mrs Cs trip as effectively curtailed on                   
7 September 2022. So, I direct AWP to deal with the balance of Mrs Cs claim 
under the curtailment provisions of the policy, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Mrs C has also complained about AWPs delay in settling her claim and the 
difficulties she had contacting the claims department. In its final response to Mrs C, 
AWP apologised for that and offered compensation of £100. I think that was fair 
and reasonable in relation to this element of Mrs Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should reassess Mrs Cs claim for curtailment on the basis 
that her trip was curtailed on 7 September 2022, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy and taking into account the payment it has already made. It should 
also pay Mrs C the compensation of £100 it has already offered to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman