DRN-2901539
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited wont pay for a full replacement after flooring 
was damaged by an escape of water. His home insurance policy has matching carpets cover 
and Mr L wants the entire ground floor replacing to maintain the match.
What happened
Mr L noticed water on the floor of his living room and kitchen. Thered been a leak and the 
luxury vinyl tiles had been damaged in a sizeable area. Mr L said the same flooring had 
been laid in a number of rooms on the ground floor. But when the damaged tiles were 
replaced they were from a different batch and there was a small difference in size. This left a 
gap between the new and old flooring.
Mr L said Ageas only offered to pay for the cost of the damaged area. It said any problems 
should be taken up with the manufacturer. Mr L said his policy included matching carpet or 
flooring cover. And there werent any breaks between the different rooms of his ground floor. 
So Mr L says Ageas should replace the entire area  not just part of the room affected.
Ageas said Mr L had been in touch after a leak. Contractors had taken up the flooring and 
discovered an escape of water from old piping. Mr L had sent images of damage to the joists 
and floorboards. And hed provided a breakdown of costs for the repairs and replacement of 
10m2 of flooring. The quote was for £3250 plus vat. Mr L also presented a plumbers invoice 
for additional work. After reviewing the claim Ageas agreed it was covered under Mr Ls 
home insurance policy. And it offered a settlement of £3330 after deducting the policy 
excess, based on the quote Mr L had provided.
About a month later Mr L contacted Ageas again. The flooring had been laid but the vinyl 
strips were slightly thinner. There were small gaps between the two sections. Ageas said itd 
settled the claim based on the limit of its liability. Any problems with the new flooring were 
not its fault. And Mr L would have to take it up with his contractor. Ageas said it wouldnt 
replace the entire flooring including rooms that were unaffected by the leak.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Ageas response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He didnt think Ageas had specifically agreed to cover any 
undamaged part of the home in the policy. But he asked Ageas to consider our services 
normal approach when theres been a loss of match. Ageas accepted that the irregular 
flooring needed addressing. And it agreed to pay 50% of the remaining cost for replacing the 
entire flooring in the affected room. Our investigator felt that was a fair offer.
Mr L didnt agree. So this complaint has been passed to an ombudsman to consider. Mr L 
didnt think the claim had been settled in line with the policy wording. It specifically defined 
carpet and floor covering but only a section of the living room had been replaced rather than 
the whole room. If Ageas could agree to pay half of the cost of replacing the undamaged 
flooring then why couldnt it pay for all of it.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision to Mr L and Ageas.
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said:
 Unfortunately when trying to replace damaged areas it isnt always possible to 
obtain exact matches. In this case the problem was the floor had been laid with vinyl 
tile strips from one batch  and more recent batches werent exactly the same. This 
left a small but noticeable gap between the old and new flooring.
 Mr L has provided a description of his property explaining how the flooring flows 
through each room without dividers, although there are doors between the rooms. 
Ideally hed like the entire downstairs area replacing so there is a seamless flow of 
new tiles into each room.
 I can see Mr L took out the policy in late 2019. So Ive looked at the May 2018 
policy documents which were relevant at the time of the claim. The matching carpets 
clause refers to carpet or floor covering that matches in more than one room or area 
of the home. The clause says if there are breaks between the areas  for instance 
doorways or archways - then Ageas will treat each room as separate.
 The policy says Ageas will only pay for the damage to the carpet or floor covering in 
the room or area where the damage happened. It wont pay for matching flooring in 
the other rooms.
 Mr L says he has slightly different wording in the policy document he received from 
his broker. It was dated the year before. But the updated policy documents were 
available on the website and I cant really hold Ageas responsible if his broker hadnt 
forwarded any new terms and conditions. And I dont think Ageas should replace the 
entire flooring on the ground floor under the matching carpets clause.
 But I do think it can do more with regards to the room where the damage occurred. 
Mr L has been left with a mis-matched floor in the living room. But Ageas has only 
offered 50% of the cost to fully replace the flooring in that room.
 I dont think thats fair. If Mr L had carpet rather than flooring tiles in place, Ageas 
wouldve agreed to replace the entire carpet in that room. It wouldnt have just 
replaced a square of damaged carpet or offered only half of the cost of the 
undamaged carpet area in that room.
 It hasnt been possible to replace just the damaged vinyl tiles in a way that matches 
the surrounding area in the same room. The tiles click together and need to be a 
proper fit to ensure a tight seal. But the new batch is a slightly different size.
 So to put Mr L back in the position he was in before the escape of water, or as near 
as reasonably possible, I think Ageas should replace all of the remaining floor tiles in 
the living room so that all of the flooring in that room matches in line with the terms of 
his home insurance policy.
Subject to any further representations by Mr L or Ageas, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to partially uphold this complaint. Ageas should replace the entire flooring in the 
room where the damage occurred by covering the full replacement cost of the remaining, 
undamaged, tiles as well as the damaged area.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decisionMr L said he hadnt been kept updated with any new wording in his policy. But he wanted to 
draw the matter to a close. Hed already paid out £3400 to repair the damaged flooring. 
Ageas didnt provide any further response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepted our investigators suggestion that it settle half of the cost of replacing the 
flooring in the room where the damage had occurred. But Mr L still feels Ageas should 
replace the entire downstairs flooring as it matches throughout.
As I said in my provisional decision, I cant ask Ageas to replace the entire 50m2 downstairs 
flooring under the terms of the matching carpets/flooring section of his policy. I dont think 
that would be fair.
But having looked carefully at everything thats happened it is still my decision that, as well 
as paying for the repairs, Ageas should replace the entire flooring in the room where the 
damage occurred. This would put Mr L in a position as close as possible to the one he was 
in before the damage occurred, allowing for the terms of the matching carpets cover.
Putting things right
I understand the affected room is some 25m2. This means 15m2 of vinyl tile flooring still 
needs replacing so that it matches across the entire room without any gaps. And I can see 
Mr L has indicated that the tile flooring costs £60m2. 
Ageas has recorded the claim costs as £3330 after deducting the policy excess. So in 
addition Ageas should pay Mr L £900 to replace the rooms remaining 15m2 of vinyl flooring 
with matching tiling.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. In addition to the costs of £3330 
after excess deduction, Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mr L a further £900 to replace 
the undamaged tiling in the room where the damage occurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman