DRN-4276675
The complaint
Mr R complains about the incorrect information he was given by Forester Life Limited 
(Forester Life) which he says prevented him from transferring his pension fund to another
provider before it lost around £20,000 in value. He says the lifestyling option to which his 
funds ought to have been switched should have better protected the value of his funds and 
didnt preserve his capital as he expected it to do. He would like Forester Life to reimburse 
him for the investment loss he says hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr R held a stakeholder personal pension plan with Forester Life which had an intended 
retirement date (IRD) of 25 December 2033. In March 2021 Mr R contacted Forester Life for 
a plan valuation. He then says he wrote to Forester Life in June 2021 and asked for his IRD 
to be changed to 25 December 2023. He says he didnt receive a response until he 
subsequently provided the same information by letter and email.  Mr R says he called 
Forester Life in August or September 2021 to ask when the lifestyling option of his plan 
would commence. He said he was told that half of the fund would be switched in 
December 2021 and the other half in December 2022. He says he wasnt provided with  nor 
could he find online, any details of the fund used under the lifestyle option.  
  
In January 2022 Mr R contacted Forester Life to confirm that some of his plan would be 
switched from December 2021 and then the remaining amount in December 2022  as had 
previously been confirmed to him. But he was informed that lifestyling was due to begin in 
December 2022 and hadnt been set up that way from December 2021. So he asked for 
confirmation that it would be completed as previously stated.
Forester Life explained that, as Mr R had changed his IRD less than five years before the 
lifestyle option was due to begin, the option had been disabled. He was told that the switch 
could be completed manually if he requested it by letter and made another request for the 
remaining part of the fund to be switched in December 2022. This information was incorrect 
as Forester Life later accepted that its systems hadnt picked up that Mr Rs plan should 
have been automatically lifestyled when he changed the IRD.
Mr R requested further information from Forester Life but says it didnt respond to him. So in 
April 2022 he transferred his funds to another provider where they were held as a cash fund. 
But the transfer value was only £320,109.80 - whereas the value of his plan in 
December 2021 had been around £343,00. 
By November 2022, when he reiterated his complaint that Forester Life had made errors and 
not looked after his plan properly causing it to fall in value, he said he would take his 
complaint to an ombudsman. He said if Forester Life had been truthful and honest with him 
in explaining that the protection fund used in the lifestyling option didnt actually protect 
the funds, he would have transferred his plan elsewhere in January 2022  thereby not 
suffering the reduction in the fund value. 
Subsequently Forester Life provided its final response on the matter. It said the rules of 
Mr Rs stakeholder plan meant that it should have switched him to a lifestyling option when 
he changed his IRD. However, because the new IRD was less than five years away its 
system didnt automatically carry out the switch. It then gave Mr R the option of leaving the 
fund invested as it was or backdating a switch to the lifestyle protection fund.
It said at that point his funds hadnt yet been switched, so any subsequent investment losses 
were not because of a switch to the lifestyle fund but because of general volatility in the 
markets. It offered £150 compensation for both the delay in responding to Mr Rs request for 
information and for the system error in not automatically lifestyling.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said that the reduction in value of Mr Rs 
plan was largely down to general market volatility as opposed to an error from Forester Life. 
He said Mr R had benefitted from not being switched to the lifestyle funds when he should 
have been, although he accepted the funds had fallen significantly during this time. However 
he didnt think Forester Life had handled the complaint well and had delayed in responding 
to Mr R and issuing a final response letter. He thought it should pay Mr R £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its errors had caused. 
Mr R said hed been under the impression that lifestyling meant his funds were protected 
and that there wouldnt be any investment loss  which he said he was told during his 
training when was previously employed by Forester Life. He said he didnt receive any 
information about lifestyling prior to the switch so he couldnt have been informed that it 
wasnt protected.
The investigator confirmed that Forester Life wouldnt have provided a factsheet for the 
lifestyle fund because it was only available to existing policyholders leading up to their 
retirement. He also confirmed that, as lifestyling wasnt an advised transaction, and would 
have automatically occurred five years (or less) before the IRD  Mr R wouldnt have been 
given any additional information on the fund or the lifestyling process. He would have been 
provided with the original terms and conditions of the plan when he first took it out.
Mr R said he understood he wasnt given advice by a financial adviser, but he was given 
incorrect and conflicting information by Forester Life and along with its prolonged responses 
resulted in him incurring a significant financial loss. 
Forester Life said the recommendation to pay £500 was excessive and offered to pay a 
total of £300 compensation.
So as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Forester Life wasnt responsible for any investment loss 
Mr R said hed suffered, but I thought it should pay £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused.  I made the following points in support of my findings:
Lifestyling wasnt an added option to be discussed and possibly added to Mr Rs 
plan, but it was a process that was part of the terms and conditions. When Mr R 
changed his IRD in August 2021 60% of the fund needed to be switched to 
lifestyling at that time with further tranches in December 2021 and 2022. 
But Forester Lifes systems didnt pick up the change and didnt implement the switch 
to lifestyling at the times  and by the amounts - it should have done.Forester Life did carry out a calculation to see if Mr R had been disadvantaged as a 
result of not enabling the switch. It offered him either the option to backdate a switch 
to lifestyling so that he would be as close as possible to the position he ought to 
have been in had Forester Life not made an error, or he could remain within the 
managed fund  where he would maintain a higher fund value. So it wasnt fair for 
me to tell Forester Life to carry out a corrective backdated switch as Mr R would be 
financially worse off. So I didnt think Forester Life had acted incorrectly regarding its 
calculation. 
But Mr R said the delay in resolving the matter led to a significant fall in the value of 
his fund. He said if hed been aware that the lifestyle protection fund as it was 
known could be so volatile then he would have transferred elsewhere in 
December 2021. I thought there was no evidence to support the idea that Mr R might 
have transferred his funds before his plan suffered a fall in value. 
I understood that Mr R might still have seen the value of his plan fall after 
August 2021, but it wasnt possible to now know what level of financial loss might 
have caused him to consider transferring  or even if he would have transferred.
I wasnt persuaded that Forester Life could have provided the information Mr R 
requested  and might have made him aware that his money was at greater risk than 
he thought - much sooner than it did, and by then the fund had already fallen by over 
£26,500.
I then looked at the level of protection the lifestyle protection fund offered. As Mr R 
thought its name indicated that it should have provided much more capital 
protection than it did. But I didnt believe the drop in fund value was caused by the 
make up of the fund but instead by unusual movements within the bond market 
arising from the global pandemic. In addition, I hadnt seen any evidence to show that 
Forester Life guaranteed the value of the protection fund or had given any advice 
regarding the lifestyling process. 
I went on to consider the impact Forester Lifes errors had on Mr R. I thought there 
was some impact, although I didnt think it would have altered the outcome of Mr R 
being able to offset the fall in the value of his pension fund. But I thought the errors 
caused Mr R some degree of frustration and distress and the delay in confirming 
Forester Lifes position would also have raised his expectations of having his 
investment loss corrected.  
So I thought compensation of £300 was appropriate.
Forester Life didnt provide any response, but Mr R disagreed with my findings and made the 
following points in response:
I had stated that there was no evidence that he would have transferred his pension 
had he known that it wasnt going to be protected and fall in value after 
December 2021. Id said his desire to transfer had only been made in hindsight. 
So he provided a copy of an email he received from another provider in June 2021 
following his request of how to transfer his personal pension with Forester Life and 
then to switch to a cash fund. He said this proved his intention of protecting his 
pension fund at the same time that he contacted Forester Life to change his 
retirement date. He said the information he was given by Forester Life at the time  
namely that his fund would be switched to lifestyling in December 2021, led to him 
decide not to transfer his pension.
He said the new plan offered far more flexibility and online access than Forester 
Lifes plan  and would have been more suitable for him. But he was only persuaded 
not to transfer because of the promises that his Forester Life fund would be 
switched  in two tranches, into the lifestyle Protection fund from December 2021. He 
thought this protection meant he didnt need to transfer.His fund didnt start to drop in value until the end of January and more considerably 
during February 2022. If he had been provided with the correct information about the 
lifestyling fund in June 2021 then he would definitely have transferred elsewhere. 
Or if Forester Life had provided the information it should have, following his request 
in January 2022, he could have transferred at that point  before the significant fall in 
value. 
The name of the fund as a protection fund is misleading and doesnt offer the 
protection that is suggested. Also there is no information about the fund on Forester 
Lifes website.
It wasnt until March 2022 that Forester Life made it clear to him that the fund didnt 
actually protect his capital. By this time the fund had fallen significantly. It was he 
that told Forester Life not to switch his fund into the lifestyle fund  so he hadnt 
benefitted financially as Forester Life should have switched his funds when it said it 
would. 
He hadnt received any communication from Forester Life following its letter of 
5 April 2022 in which it said it would provide a final response to his complaint. In fact 
the final response only came when he brought his complaint to us. He thought 
Forester Life had been intentionally ignoring me. 
He didnt think my compensation award was in any way sufficient and only served to 
encourage Forester Life to continue treating customers poorly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Rs further submissions I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. I have some sympathy for Mr Rs position here because clearly 
Forester Life made an error and didnt do what it said it would do with his money. But I think 
the resolution it offered following that error, which is the same as the compensation award 
Ive recommended, is a fair and reasonable solution to the matter  so Ill confirm my 
reasons. 
Mr R held a stakeholder pension plan with Forester Life which incorporated a lifestyling 
option. This option would be implemented five years before his IRD which was originally in 
2033. The terms and conditions of his plan explained both the lifestyling option and how it 
would be implemented. 
In these regulations, lifestyling means the process, applied from the relevant date and 
continuing until the members retirement date, by which an investment strategy is adopted by 
the trustees or manager which aims progressively to reduce the potential for significant 
variation in the value of the members rights caused by market conditions from time to time.
I know the fund that was used to switch into was called the lifestyle protection fund, but the 
definition Ive set out above doesnt make reference to any guarantees or capital protection 
of the fund  simply that it aims to progressively reduce the potential for significant variations 
that might occur from time to time.  So there was no suggestion that the fund couldnt fall in 
value, although the composition of the fund should ultimately expose Mr R to progressively 
lower risk as he approached his IRD. 
When Mr R called Forester Life to bring his IRD forward to 2023 the lifestyling option needed 
to be implemented. Some of the fund needed to be switched in August 2021 with further 
tranches switched in December 2021 and 2022. Unfortunately, Forester Lifes systems didnt 
pick up the change in the IRD and so the option wasnt implemented. Mr R became aware of 
that failing in January 2022. So theres no dispute that Forester Life made an error  which it accepts. The question 
therefore is how Forester Life ought to have resolved that issue and what financial loss may 
have suffered as a result. In order to answer that question, I need to look at what would have 
happened if it hadnt made the error.
What should have happened?
When Mr R contacted Forester Life in August 2021 it should have switched 60% of his fund 
into lifestyling at that time. Some of the remaining fund ought then to have been switched in 
December 2021 and the remainder in December 2022. So in order to put Mr R back as close 
as possible to the position he should have been in without its error, Forester Life needed to 
calculate Mr Rs position had the switches been made when they ought to have been. As it 
eventually carried out a loss assessment in March 2022 that needed to include the 
implementation of two of the three switches. 
Forester Life said that its calculation showed that Mr R was better off following its error as 
the fund was now greater having not been switched according to its terms and conditions 
than if it had been switched to lifestyling. But it said Mr R could still ask for the switch to 
lifestyling to be backdated or indeed he could even change the IRD again so that the 
lifestyling option wasnt appropriate. But if he chose to leave the fund where it was he would 
be better off. 
Mr R said he asked Forester Life not to transfer his money to the protection fund, but he 
didnt accept he had benefited financially from those actions. He said it was Forester Lifes 
error that it didnt carry out the switch. I can understand Mr Rs frustration here because it 
would appear that Forester Life hasnt had to put anything right even though it caused the 
problem in the first place. But theres no suggestion that Mr R has benefitted here, simply 
that his fund is greater as a result of the money being left in the fund it was originally 
invested in rather than being switched. 
But Mr R says that, while Forester Life did carry out a loss calculation to assess whether 
hed suffered financially, he had incurred an investment loss because of Foresters Life 
slowness in providing him with information about the lifestyle protection fund in early 2022 
and also because the fund didnt provide him with any kind of protection. He says if hed 
been made aware of how the fund worked  either in August 2021 or around January 2022  
he would have transferred it elsewhere so that he could have better protected his money. He 
says all the problems that hes experienced here have occurred because the fund, which 
wasnt supposed to be volatile, fell significantly after December 2021 when he was waiting 
for Forester Life to correct its error.
Mr Rs claim for investment loss  
As I said previously the terms and conditions of the plan noted that lifestyling aims 
progressively to reduce the potential for significant variation in the value of the members 
rights caused by market conditions from time to time. Theres nothing to support the idea 
that the fund value would be guaranteed or fully protected against market forces. The fund 
that was used for the lifestyling option principally consists of bond and cash funds  so 
without any equity content its aims would have been to reduce the risk of the fund losing 
value prior to an IRD. 
Unfortunately, the rather unusual circumstances around the global pandemic caused 
difficulties in the bond markets, so the assets within the fund fell in value in early 2022. But I 
dont think it was possible to have foreseen these circumstances and therefore I wouldnt 
have expected Forester Life to have been able to warn Mr R about the situation that 
unfolded. As Forester Life has explained there isnt any fund information or fact sheets available for this fund as its only available to existing pension plan holders and isnt a fund 
that other consumers can invest into. So Im unclear as to what further relevant information 
Forester Life could have given Mr R after its email response of 11 February 2022 when it 
confirmed the composition of the fund. 
Mr R says he would have transferred his plan if hed been made aware of the potential 
volatility of the fund, but I dont think there was any particular volatility that he needed to be 
told about. The terms and conditions didnt guarantee that the fund value couldnt fall and the 
composition of the fund, not holding any equities, was consistent with assets that ought to 
reduce the risk of a fund losing its value. 
But I have to consider what Mr R has told us he would have done, especially in light of his 
new evidence of an email to another provider enquiring about switching his Forester Life 
pension to new plan invested into cash funds. However, that option was still open to Mr R at 
all times during this process. I know Mr R says he was persuaded not to transfer because of 
the promises of a switch to a protection fund, but I havent seen any evidence to support 
the idea that Forester Life either made those promises or persuaded him not to transfer. 
Forester Life didnt offer any advice to Mr R on what he should do, it simply provided the 
relevant information  albeit not as quickly as Mr R would have liked. But I dont think the 
information Ive seen about the lifestyle protection fund was misleading or incorrect  so I 
cant say that Forester Life caused Mr R not to take actions which might have secured a 
greater value to his plan. 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration here as he believes he was given misleading information 
about the volatility of the lifestyle fund which led him to conclude he didnt need to transfer to 
safer cash funds. He says the delay in providing this information in January 2022 only 
made the financial loss he has suffered worse in preventing a transfer sooner. But I dont 
think Forester Life did provide misleading information or didnt make Mr R aware of particular 
volatility within the lifestyle fund. I think what happened was an unfortunate situation in the 
markets brought about by unknown and unforeseen circumstances at the time. 
Ultimately, despite Mr Rs evidence of his prior interest in switching to a cash fund elsewhere 
 which I have carefully considered  Im not persuaded that Forester Lifes actions were 
responsible for Mr R not transferring his fund elsewhere either in August 2021 or 
January 2022  before the fall in the funds value. 
Putting things right
Although Ive decided that I dont think Forester Life is responsible for any of the investment 
loss Mr R suffered, it is clear that it made some errors during this time. It didnt implement 
the lifestyling process when Mr R changed his IRD  which meant it provided Mr R with 
incorrect information in December 2021. If it had implemented the option then Mr R could 
have concentrated on whether he wanted to continue with his investment when it lost value 
in 2022. That would have been a matter for Mr R to consider and act upon himself.
In addition Forester Life didnt return Mr Rs call of January 2022 or respond in a timely 
fashion to a follow up email. If it had done so Forester Life may have been able to provide 
Mr R with some information slightly sooner and might have made him more aware of the 
ongoing performance of the protection fund  or that his plan hadnt in fact been switched to 
the lifestyling option.
Looking at these two errors I think they did impact Mr R, although I dont think they would 
have altered the outcome of whether he would have been able to offset the fall in the value 
of his pension. But I think this would have added to his frustration while he was trying to 
obtain the relevant information, as well as raising his expectations of getting a resolution that 
would have put him back into the best position he could have been in. I think Forester Lifes delay in confirming its position to Mr R was likely to have given him more belief that it would 
agree to make up his investment loss.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Forester Lifes errors would have impacted
Mr Rs situation to some degree. And so, Ive considered the appropriate amount of 
compensation for that impact. Ive decided that Forester Lifes subsequent offer (post 
assessment) of a total of £300 is within the range of what I would have recommended and is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
Forester Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint following 
our investigators assessment and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Forester Life Limited should pay £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman