DRN-3904137
The complaint
Ms F complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car which had been customised.
From about March 2022, Ms F had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with AXA.
Unfortunately, in late April 2022, Ms F reported to AXA that her car had been damaged  
and shed been injured -  in an accident. At first, Ms F wanted AXA to get the third party to 
accept liability. Ms F continued to drive the damaged vehicle.
In mid-May 2022, Ms F asked AXA to pay for her choice of repairer.
In early June 2022 AXA instructed an engineer to assess the damage to the car.
Later in June 2022, the repairer did some work. Ms F complained to AXA that it had only 
repaired one of the wheels. She also complained about the engineers comments about her 
wheels.
In early July 2022, Ms F complained to AXA that shed taken a day off work and had been 
calling AXA all day. She complained that shed been waiting to make a claim for her injuries.
By a final response dated mid- September 2022, AXA said it hadnt acknowledged Ms Fs  
injuries. AXA also said  that the engineers comments were a poor level of service. AXA 
acknowledged a delay in responding to the complaint. AXA said it would send a cheque for 
£425.00 in the next 14 working days.
By a second final response dated late September 2022, AXA said it hadnt raised a cheque, 
but it would credit Ms Fs bank account with £425.00 plus an additional £50.00.
Ms F brought her complaint to us in November 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
AXA had made errors, but it had addressed the matters fairly and reasonably and in line with 
our approach.
Ms F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that she would like to push this matter further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs policy terms said that it would provide a courtesy car but only while the insured car 
was undergoing repair at a recommended repairer. 
AXAs policy covered accident damage to Ms Fs car. The policy didnt cover personal injury 
to Ms F.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Ms F some 
inconvenience and distress.
From what Ive seen, AXA took reasonable steps to hold the third party responsible for the 
accident. Much of the delay was caused by the third party or their insurer disputing liability.
Ms F hasnt shown that it was unfair for AXA to agree to pay for repair to only one of the 
wheels. 
Ms F chose her own repairer. So AXA didnt have to provide a courtesy car. 
But I hold AXA responsible for some inappropriate comments from the engineer. And Ive 
noted some other shortcomings in AXAs service. These included failure to note Ms Fs 
injuries, some obstacles to communication, delay in dealing with complaints and failure to 
send a cheque when it said it would.
I dont underestimate the impact of these shortcomings on Ms F. I accept that they caused 
her extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for her.
Nevertheless, AXA tried to put things right by a payment of £475.00. And  keeping in mind 
our published guidelines - £475.00 is more than I wouldve found fair and reasonable if AXA 
hadnt made that payment. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman