DRN-3278251
Complaint
Mr T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly increased the interest rate 
on his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint and thought while HSBC was entitled to 
vary its overdraft interest rate, it should have realised it was unfair to do so in Mr Ts case as 
his overdraft had already become unsustainable for him by September 2020. So it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ts overdraft from this point. HSBC 
didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from September 2020. By this 
point, it was evident Mr Ts overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that Mr T had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And he rarely, if ever, saw a credit balance on 
his account for more than a few days at a time. 
So I think that by September 2020 HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr T with forbearance rather than increasing the interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Ts account usage, and instead 
increased the charges without taking into account his circumstances, I think it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr T ended up paying increased interest, fees and charges at a time when his overdraft was 
already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Mr T lost out because of what HSBC did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ts complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ts current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr T to arrange a suitable repayment plan,     
Mr T is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ts credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
September 2020. HSBC can also reduce Mr Ts overdraft limit by the amount of 
any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt 
leave him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Ts overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman