DRN-3026084
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr H is being represented in this complaint by Mrs H. For ease of reference, my decision will 
refer to both as Mr H.
What happened
On 9 October 2018, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £5,549; with 59 monthly repayments of £125.02 and 
a final payment of £284.02. At the time, the car was around seven and a half years old and 
had done around 69,000 miles.
Mr H said he had problems with the car from the day it was supplied to him. He said the 
supplying dealership told him to drive the car for a long distance, to push fuel through the 
engine and injectors, because the car had been standing for a long time. Mr H said he did 
this, but the car remained sluggish, and used more fuel than hed expected.
In February 2019, the car started blowing smoke. And Mr H returned it to the dealership for 
inspection. The dealership said there was a problem with the injectors, and a diagnostic 
report was needed. And they said that Mr H didnt want to do this, so he collected the car. Mr 
H took the car to a third-party garage, and had the injectors repaired under warranty.
Mr H complained to MotoNovo, unhappy with the service hed received from the dealership, 
and initially asked to reject the car. But, because the car had been repaired, he asked for a 
refund of the consequential losses hed suffered while the car was off the road. MotoNovo 
didnt uphold the complaint as theyd not had the opportunity to investigate the faults with 
car, and assess any liability, before the repairs were completed.
Mr H wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr H hadnt co-operated with MotoNovo during their complaint 
investigation process, and this delayed matters. And theyd closed down the complaint on 
more than one occasion due to a lack of contact. So MotoNovo hadnt had the opportunity to 
assess liability before the repairs were completed. 
The investigator said the injectors were a serviceable item, that were subject to wear and 
tear. And hed seen nothing to suggest that the car was in an unsatisfactory condition when 
it was supplied to Mr H. Because of this, the he didnt think it was fair that MotoNovo 
contributed towards Mr Hs costs. And he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said the dealership had the opportunity to repair 
the injectors in 2018 but failed to do so. And he thought that MotoNovo had had ample time 
to investigate the problem and investigate any liability.
Mr H said the car was faulty from day one, and it broke down after four months. And, as the 
faults were present within six months of supply, he said its for MotoNovo to prove that the 
car was of a satisfactory quality. Hes also said hed co-operated with MotoNovo by returning 
documentation, but MotoNovo had no response from me in 2020 because I had already 
informed them on numerous occasions that I was contacting the ombudsman  [I] had been 
sent a DEADLOCK letter  MotoNovo ONLY tried contacting us be [sic] phone and email 
and NOT by POST as requested numerous times  So NO we didnt take their calls.
Mr H has also made several comments about the service provided by the dealership. And 
hes asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I address the issues Mr H had with the car, I believe it would be beneficial for me to 
explain what Im able to consider, and what Im not. While Im aware that Mr H is unhappy 
with the service provided by the dealership, they arent a regulated financial business. And, 
because of this, Im not able to consider what the dealership did, or didnt do. My decision 
will only focus on the service provided by MotoNovo.
And when considering what MotoNovo did or didnt do, Im only able to consider regulated 
activities. And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So, while Mr H has made a 
number of comments about how MotoNovo dealt with his complaint and didnt contact him 
about this by his preferred method, this is not something Im able to look at. My decision will 
focus on the agreement Mr H signed, and the obligations under this agreement.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr H to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.Mr H was supplied with the car in October 2018, and hes said that he had problems with it 
from the point of supply. Hes also said that the car broke down completely in February 2019 
- four months after it was supplied. Because of this, he believes that, under the CRA, the car 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied. 
It wasnt until 22 March 2019 that Mr H first raised any issues with MotoNovo. And, in a letter 
dated 29 March 2019, they specifically asked him not to instruct any repairs or diagnostics. 
In reply, on 26 April 2019, Mr H told MotoNovo that the repairs were already underway when 
he complained, because he needed the car to use daily.
Ive seen a copy of an invoice, dated 13 March 2019, from a third-party garage. This says 
that the fuel injector was removed and regenerated, at the cost of £240. And, on 10 May 
2019, the same garage repaired the injector clamp and seals at the cost of £115. A further 
invoice dated 3 June 2019 is for a repair to the injector clamp and seals, and for the 
replacement of an injection connection, at the cost of £198. Its my understanding that these 
repairs were carried out under warranty.
Theres nothing on these invoices, or on any other correspondence from the garage, to say 
that the injector fault was present when the car was supplied to Mr H. And Ive seen nothing 
to say that the car was either off the road, or that Mr H had been advised not to drive it, until 
the repairs had been completed.
The fault with the injectors happened within six months of Mr H being supplied with the car. 
And the CRA presumes this fault was present when the car was supplied. Unless MotoNovo 
can show otherwise. But, because Mr H wouldnt let the dealership deal with the repairs, 
MotoNovo havent been given the opportunity to have the car inspected by an independent 
engineer, to determine whether the fault was a result of wear and tear or was present when 
the car was supplied.
Because of this, I cant fairly say whether the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, or not.
But, if the fault was present at the point of supply, the CRA allows for one chance at repair. 
While Mr H has said the dealership had this opportunity to repair the car in 2018, I havent 
seen any evidence to show me this was the case. And Ive certainly not seen anything to 
show me that MotoNovo authorised any repairs in 2018.
So, Im satisfied that, if the car was of an unsatisfactory quality, then MotoNovo should have 
had the opportunity to repair it.
Mr H didnt allow the dealership to repair the car. Instead, he arranged for this to be done 
under warranty at a garage of his choice. And its not disputed that these repairs were 
successful. Im therefore satisfied that the repair requirements of the CRA have been met.
However, I wouldnt expect MotoNovo to consider any other costs Mr H incurred while faults 
were being investigated. This is because they had no opportunity to investigate the issues. 
Nor were they given any opportunity to arrange for a courtesy car while Mr Hs car was off 
the road, so as to mitigate any costs Mr H may incur. Because of this, I dont think its fair to 
expect MotoNovo to cover any further costs.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, for the reasons stated 
above, I wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about FirstRand Bank Limited 
trading as MotoNovo Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman