DRN-2796713
The complaint
Mr B complains of a lack of communication with Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(M&S Bank) regarding persistent debt on his account.
What happened
Mr B received a text from M&S Bank which informed him that M&S Bank would be 
suspending his credit card if he didnt contact them within five days.
Mr B contacted M&S Bank and spoke with a call handler who told him that the suspension of 
his card related to his account being in persistent debt. They said they had sent him several 
letters outlining the position of the account. The call handler told Mr B he had two options 
and could set up a repayment plan to pay off the outstanding balance within three or four 
years, but his card would be suspended regardless. The call handler quoted monthly 
repayments for these terms, but Mr B explained to her that the monthly payments currently 
werent affordable. He also explained that he was dealing with the estate of his late father 
which was taking more time and expense than expected but once this was resolved he may 
be able to significantly reduce the outstanding balance.
Mr B said he didnt receive any of the letters from M&S Bank, so he requested them to be 
sent out again which the call handler agreed to arrange this. The call had been disconnected 
before the natural end of the conversation. But M&S Bank didnt ring him back.
Mr B wrote a letter of complaint to M&S Bank. He said that he was on the call for over 40 
minutes before the call cut out and the call handler didnt attempt to ring him back, the call 
handler did not establish whether the repayment plan options were affordable for him, he 
said M&S bank did not meet the regulators guidance on persistent debt. He again requested 
to see the letters that M&S Bank had sent him regarding the persistent debt. Mr B said that 
he had never defaulted on any accounts and did not want to see an adverse marker on his 
credit file.
M&S Bank emailed Mr B and they said they wrote to him on 9 June 2018 and 9 March 2019 
to notify him of the new changes and would monitor his account and contact him again if his 
repayments and circumstances didnt change. They said that they also let him know that 
they may cancel or restrict the use of Mr Bs account. M&S Bank also said that they wrote to 
him again on 9 December 2019 notifying him that under the regulators rules, they needed to 
provide him with options to increase his payments so he could pay his outstanding balance 
over a period of 3-4 years. M&S Bank explained Mr Bs card would be suspended as 
advised in their recent letter.
M&S Bank explained that due to their staff working remotely, they often dont have time to 
ring customers back before they need to take an outbound call. To apologise for the service 
Mr B received, M&S Bank said they applied a credit to his account of £75. Mr B was not 
happy with their response so he brought his complaint to our service.
Mr B explained to our investigator that M&S Bank have all of his contact details so they 
shouldve tried to contact him by other methods apart from post to discuss this, instead of 
leaving it five days before they would suspend his card to text him. He mentioned that he 
had problems accessing his statements due to an IT issue on their platform and he said that 
if M&S Bank had contacted him earlier then he may have been able to make higher 
payments as he was in a better financial position previously. Mr B told our investigator that 
he still hadnt received the correspondence that M&S Bank said that they would send to him 
and asked our investigator to see if this had been sent. 
Our investigator contacted M&S Bank to see if the correspondence had been sent. M&S 
Bank admitted they did not send the correspondence as requested. They sent our service 
system notes that although they had requested the letters to have been sent out again, the 
administration staff member who looked at the request incorrectly believed the previous 
adviser had sent copies of the letters. M&S Bank also clarified that they previously told Mr B 
a letter was sent on 9 December 2019, but it was actually January 2020 which they had sent 
this letter. M&S Bank offered £25 to Mr B in light of their error in not sending the 
correspondence as requested but Mr B rejected this.
Our investigator thought that the £25 offer was fair. She said that M&S Bank had wrote to Mr 
B in August 2018 (this is the letter M&S Bank said they had sent in June 2018), March 2019 
and January 2020 so although Mr B said he didnt receive these letters, she couldnt hold 
M&S Bank responsible for this as they had sent the letters. She also explained that his 
statements had shown a voluntary payment. This is an extra monthly payment which may 
help Mr B get out of persistent debt.
Our investigator also said that she thought the £75 M&S Bank paid was fair for the issues he 
had on the phone, but even if he had come to an arrangement with M&S Bank, as this was 
after the 36 months persistent debt letter then his card still likely wouldve been suspended. 
She also said that as M&S Bank and Mr B hadnt had a conversation about Mr Bs 
affordability yet, she couldnt say that he wasnt offered an affordable repayment plan yet. 
Our investigator said that M&S Bank had acted in line with timeframes set out by the 
regulator and had delayed suspending his account due to the pandemic, based on 
guidelines by the regulator not to suspend any accounts until October 2020. 
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In summary, he said he had 
hoped M&S Bank wouldve monitored accounts more closely than following generic 
guidance from the regulator, he felt the £25 offer for not sending out the correspondence 
was insulting, he hadnt seen the credit card statements during the timeframe mentioned and 
if M&S Bank had contacted him earlier then he couldve made higher payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to both M&S Bank and this service and Ive considered, 
listened to and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr B has said regarding M&S Bank. He said they should have 
monitored his account closer than the guidance given by the regulator. And they should have 
tried to also communicate with him via a different method as they held his phone number 
and email address. But I should start by explaining that its not the role of this service to say 
how a business should run their processes such as how they communicate with their 
customers considered to be in persistent debt. So while I know Mr B thinks M&S Bank 
should have contacted him separately to the letters they sent him but he didnt receive, I cant tell a business how they could or should communicate with their customers. But I do 
need to see that M&S Bank followed their process for communicating with Mr B when he 
was considered to be in persistent debt. And Im persuaded that they did here. Ill explain 
why.
M&S Bank wrote to Mr B to explain that he would be considered to be in persistent debt and 
what steps he should take by the next review period. These letters were sent to Mr Bs 
registered address. I know Mr B says he didnt receive these letters but Im satisfied that 
M&S Bank fulfilled their duty by sending the letters. So I cant hold them responsible if there 
has been issues with the postal system resulting in Mr B not getting the letters, even if he 
does say he may have been able to make higher payments before his card was suspended 
if he had known about the persistent debt. As these letters were providing information only, 
Im not persuaded it would be reasonable or proportionate for M&S Bank to contact Mr B by 
another method to provide the same information.
Ive also looked at Mr Bs account statements and there is a voluntary payment option 
included. He is informed by the following wording: were including this option for 18 months 
from 09 June 2018. Taking into account how youve used your credit card and what youve 
used since then, it shows the amount youd need to pay this month to be on track to pay at 
least as much towards the rest of your balance as you do in interest and charges on your 
statements over the 18 months. Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about him not 
looking at his statements here as hes been busy with his fathers estate and the issues hes 
had with the IT systems. And Ive considered hes said if he knew this information earlier he 
may have been able to make a higher payment. But as M&S Bank have made the 
statements available to him, I cant say that they havent informed him of the position he was 
in.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr B had with M&S Bank after he received the text from them 
informing him that his card would be suspended if he didnt contact them. Ive heard that 
M&S Bank did give Mr B a couple of options of repaying the outstanding balance over a 
three or four year period. As Mr B didnt agree to any of these options or give details of his 
income and expenditure here then I cant say that M&S Bank have set up something that is 
unaffordable to Mr B. 
I know Mr B is worried about the impact any repayment plan would have on his credit file. 
But setting up a repayment plan shouldnt have a negative impact on his credit file (as long 
as he makes the agreed payments). This is because the repayment plans aim to pay more 
than the minimum payment Mr B currently makes in order to pay off the outstanding balance 
substantially quicker than if only the minimum payment was made.
M&S Bank have already credited £75 to Mr Bs account in recognition of poor customer 
service he experienced during his phone call and Im persuaded this is fair. I say that as 
when the call cut off unexpectedly Mr B did not get a call back and he had long wait times. 
So M&S Bank has recognised the impact this is likely to have had on Mr B, apologised and 
credited his account with £75.
The call handler does agree to send Mr B the letters he didnt receive but due to human error 
these werent sent. This will have been frustrating for Mr B, especially when he didnt receive 
them originally. So what I would expect M&S Bank to do here is apologise, recognise the 
impact the error would have on Mr B and to offer compensation for this. And this is what they 
have done. Mr B thinks the offer of £25 is insulting but Im persuaded that it is a fair offer. I 
say this as the letters wont change the situation that Mr B is in now. He is still currently 
making at least the minimum monthly repayment on his account and he is now aware of the 
persistent debt rules and how to set up a repayment plan with M&S Bank. So Im persuaded 
that the offer of £25 for not resending the letters which they originally sent out is a fair one.My final decision
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay £25 to Mr B. But I 
wont be requiring them to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman