DRN-2976214
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) cancelled his 
policy incorrectly and this is now impacting him financially.
  
What happened
 Mr R purchased a policy online at the end of April 2020. In order to validate the policy, UKI 
asked Mr R to submit a number of documents to support his application. UKI said if the 
supporting documentation wasnt received by 15 May 2020, the policy would be cancelled.
Mr R submitted some of the information required. But he was unable to submit it all, and he 
called UKI to explain why. As the request for all the information wasnt fulfilled before the 
deadline, UKI said it couldnt validate the policy, so it was cancelled.
Mr R was unhappy that UKI cancelled his policy. He says that having to declare a policy 
cancellation is having an impact on his new policy premium. He says that UKI unfairly 
cancelled his policy as it wasnt possible for him to get everything required within the 
timeframe UKI gave, and he explained this to UKI at the time. In particular he was having 
difficulty obtaining documentation from his bank as his bank was closed due to the 
government imposed national lockdown due to Covid-19. He also says that points that were 
placed on his licence werent his, and he shouldnt be punished for not disclosing something 
that he wasnt aware of. Mr R says if hed known what hed submitted wasnt going to be 
enough he wouldve cancelled the policy himself and as such wouldnt have to declare a 
cancelled policy to new insurers. 
An investigator looked at Mr Rs complaint. The investigator felt that UKI hadnt acted fairly 
and asked it to remove the cancellation marker from Mr Rs records and pay him £100 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But UKI disagreed. It stated again that it had done nothing wrong and it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case on 10 September 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of the issue here is the cancellation of this policy. I need to be sure that UKI has 
cancelled this policy correctly, given the impact the cancellation could have on Mr R going 
forward. 
Mr R submitted an application for a motor insurance policy online. When he completed the 
online process, he was sent a link via email and text which enabled him to log into UKIs 
document portal. He was also sent a letter that same day which advised the policy would 
have to undergo some validation checks, and that he would have to submit the 
documentation requested by 15 May 2020. Mr R was directed to the online document portal 
for further information. 
I can see from the screenshots provided that Mr R accessed the online document portal that 
same day, 29 April 2020. And I can see that UKI set out very clearly the list of documents it 
required. UKI asked for:
Proof of vehicle ownership/purchase
Proof of NCD
Driving Licence
Proof you own your property
Proof of address
Proof of employment
Proof of marital status
I can see that Mr R called UKI on 4 May 2020. There is a call note on file for this call. Weve 
also been provided with a transcript of this call. In summary, the call note says that Mr R was 
having difficulty obtaining proof of home ownership. There was an issue with the address on 
Mr R drivers licence and he had questions about his employment, as he was on furlough 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The note says, Advised PH to skip passed [sic] that 
stage of HO (home ownership) and explained everything else we need.
The transcript of the call is a bit more detailed. Im not going to set it all out here. But in 
summary Mr R explained the issues he was having obtaining some of the documentation 
required. He asked why it was all necessary, and the agent advised that some policies were 
just randomly selected for further validation. Mr R asked how he was going to get through 
the application if he couldnt upload specific documentation. The UKI agent said, take a 
photo of floor or blank paper. Mr R said, I will write on paper told to skip step and the 
agent replied yes.
The screen shots provided match up with what this call. I can see that Mr R started to upload 
some documentation on 1 May 2020. He obviously came up against a problem. He couldnt 
provide some documentation, so he couldnt advance to the next step in the process. Then, 
after the call with UKI, I can see the online portal was accessed again, this time on 13 May 
and still within the timeframe. And I can see at this point Mr R uploaded everything he had 
available, as set out in the call on 4 May 2020. And under the sections looking for proof of 
home ownership hes uploaded a photo of a piece of paper saying unavailable  please see 
notes. And under the section requesting proof of marital status hes uploaded two photos 
one of which is a piece of paper stating unavailable  please see notes, as advised by the 
agent in UKI. The submission is deemed complete on the system on 13 May 2020. So, at 
this point I think Mr R thinks hes provided everything UKI has required.
On 15 May, I can see UKI accessed the link. I can see here that UKI go through each 
section and discover a number of issues. UKI deem the uploads for home ownership and 
proof of marriage unacceptable (the photos of the sheets of paper that Mr R was told to 
upload). UKI discovers an issue with the no claims discount, as it is live on another vehicle, 
and it discovers that there is an alleged undisclosed driving conviction on Mr Rs licence that 
wasnt previously declared. The note states that the agent tried to call Mr R on the number 
provided twice. Once it rang out and the second time it went to a voicemail which said the 
number was no longer recognised. The note says that at this point on 15 May UKI decides to 
cancel the policy. I know that when Mr R called UKI after the cancellation, and subsequent to this, many issues 
have arisen surrounding undisclosed penalty points, a subsequent court case, accessing 
personal documentation due to the national lockdown and proof of no claims discount. But 
Im not going to go down the route our investigator did and Im not going to make a finding 
on any of these issues in this decision. And thats because the crux of the complaint is how 
this cancellation was dealt with and whether it was cancelled fairly.
For a cancellation to be deemed fair, specific deadlines need to be clear, the process should 
be set out, and it should be clear what the consequences are of not following this process. 
Because of the potential consequences of driving with no insurance, any advice should be 
clear and correct. In this specific case UKI set out clearly in its documentation what was 
required and when. It also set out very clearly that the policy would be cancelled if this 
information wasnt received. UKI also advised that Mr R could cancel at any point up to the 
deadline. Further to this, its clear Mr R knew what he had to do, and he started the process 
on 1 May 2020. 
But when Mr R encountered a problem, he called UKI and he specifically asked what he 
needed to do next to complete the process. And it was at this point that he was told how to 
skip specific steps in the process. He wasnt told hed have to come back and fulfil these 
steps - he was told how to skip them. I believe this led him to think that the dummy photo 
he was uploading was enough to satisfy the process, otherwise he wouldnt have marked the 
process complete. 
I understand why UKI wanted this information. And I understand given the issues that arose 
at validation why UKI wanted to cancel the policy. But for UKI to get to the point of cancelling 
the policy, it needed to be very clear as to what was going to happen. So, when Mr R called 
up and asked what he needed to do next, he shouldve been told either provide whats 
required, or cancel the policy. Alternatively, if UKI wanted to assist him through the process, 
it shouldve been made very clear that uploading a dummy photograph, as he was directed 
to do, was only going to be a temporary measure. And this didnt happen. 
Instead, he was allowed to skip through the process, and from what Ive read in the 
transcript, the consequences of this were never explained. The reality is that UKI requested 
specific information that Mr R wasnt going to be able to provide in that timeframe. So, he 
shouldve been advised to cancel. And where I do note this is set out in the letter dated 29 
April 2020, this letter is superseded by the advice he was given in the telephone call on 4 
May 2020. From the testimony provided by Mr R its clear he wouldve cancelled before 15 
May if hed been advised properly. Its clear he believed that uploading the dummy photos 
was enough to satisfy the validation process. And Its clear he got this impression after 
calling for help. Its because of this I think Mr R has been prejudiced and thats why Im 
planning on upholding this complaint. 
So, just to clarify, Im not going to issue a finding on the alleged undisclosed conviction 
(misrepresentation), issues that arose surrounding access to the property deeds or marriage 
certificate because of the pandemic and national lockdown, the live no claims discount 
certificate or the two addresses. Im also not saying that UKI wasnt correct to cancel this 
policy.
However, I am planning on upholding this complaint because the cancellation process 
wasnt followed correctly. And I think Mr R wouldve acted differently if it had been. Im 
satisfied if UKI had been clearer with Mr R and not allowed him to skip through the 
uploading process, he wouldve cancelled the policy himself before the 15 May 2020, and he 
wouldnt have a cancellation to declare going forward. Because of this I will be 
recommending that UKI remove the cancellation marker from any internal and external records, provide a letter to say the cancellation was made in error and I will be asking UKI to 
pay £100 in compensation to Mr R for the inconvenience caused. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 10 September 2021 as set out above. Mr R replied, and 
hes accepted my provisional decision. UKI didnt reply. Weve attempted to contact UKI via 
telephone and email, but we havent received a response. So, in the absence of any further 
correspondence I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold 
this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to do the following:
remove the cancellation marker against Mr Rs name from any of its internal records 
and all known external records. 
provide a letter to Mr R to say the cancellation was recorded incorrectly.
pay £100 in compensation to Mr R for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman