DRN-3783316
The complaint
Mrs L complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans irresponsibly provided her 
with a guarantor loan.
What happened
Mrs L was approved for a £5,000 guarantor loan with 1Plus1 Loans in October 2016, 
payable over 36 monthly instalments of around £235. The total repayable value of the loan 
was around £8,450.
In January 2021 Mrs L complained to 1Plus1 Loans. She said it had irresponsibly approved 
the loan as it hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and that these checks 
would have shown the loan was unaffordable for her. 
1Plus1 Loans didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint so she brought it to our service for review.
 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. He concluded 1Plus1 Loans 
had completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and had gone on to make a fair 
lending decision when approving the loan based on the information it had obtained.
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators assessment. She said, in summary, that the checks 
1Plus1 Loans completed werent borrower focused, used average expenditure figures rather 
than her specific expenditure, and didnt take account of all her existing credit commitments. 
Mrs L asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ls complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Ls complaint. 
These are:
1. Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs L to satisfy 
itself she was in a position to afford to repay each loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mrs L would have been able to do so?
2.Did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs L to satisfy itself 
she was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably? 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mrs L. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 1Plus1 
Loans lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Mrs Ls ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, 
without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for 1Plus1 Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about this loan.
1Plus1 Loans has said it obtained details of Mrs Ls income which she declared as around 
£2,220 which it verified via an income verification tool. It also says Mrs L said her husband 
paid all the bills relating to the property. 1Plus1 Loans took some expenditure figures from 
Mrs L, which included half of her monthly rent payment, utility provider costs and food, travel 
and clothing expenses, and it compared these figures against the average expenditure for 
someone with Mrs Ls circumstances, based on Office of National Statistics (ONS) data. It 
says Mrs Ls declared expenditure was higher than the ONS data, so it proceeded with Mrs 
Ls declared total monthly expenditure figure for its affordability calculations. 
It also reviewed Mrs Ls credit file to identify her monthly payments towards her existing 
credit commitments. It took all of this information and added in a buffer of £200 as a 
contingency, and calculated Mrs Ls total monthly expenditure to be around £1,500. 1Plus1 
Loans has said it checked this with Mrs L and she confirmed this total figure was correct. 
1Plus1 Loans has said it therefore calculated Mrs Ls disposable income to be around £490 
after taking into account the repayments to this loan. 1Plus1 Loans says it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before fairly concluding that this loan was sustainably 
affordable to Mrs L.
Ive carefully considered 1Plus1 Loans argument and in this instance, Im satisfied it did 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks. 
I say this because the income and expenditure details it obtained suggested Mrs L was left 
with a reasonable disposable income per month after taking into account the repayments to 
this loan. The credit file check it completed showed two lines of credit, both of which had 
been in place for some time before this lending; and were being maintained well. The credit 
file didnt show any utility accounts which supported Mrs Ls position that her husband paid 
the household bills. There was no evidence within the credit file of recent credit accounts 
being approved or existing limits being increased, or missed payments, arrears, defaults or 
CCJs  which could all suggest financial distress. 
This was Mrs Ls first loan with 1Plus1 Loans, shed declared the funds were to be used for 
home improvements suggesting the money was needed for a particular purpose, and there 
was nothing from the information 1Plus1 Loans obtained which I consider ought reasonably to have led to it having concerns about Mrs Ls finances that warranted it conducting further 
checks.
So, taking all the above into account, I consider 1Plus1 Loans did enough to get an 
understanding of Mrs Ls financial position based on the terms of the loan being provided 
and the evidence it obtained. 
As I consider 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks Ive gone on to 
consider whether it made a fair decision to lend.  
Did 1Plus1 Loans go on to make a fair decision to lend to Mrs L?
As Ive found above, I think 1Plus1 Loans checks went far enough in order for it to get a 
reasonable understanding of Mrs Ls financial situation. So, Ive gone on to consider if 
1Plus1 Loans made a fair lending decision based on those checks. 
1Plus 1 Loans verified Mrs Ls income by way of a verification tool; and it took into account 
the higher of the expenditure values it had from the information Mrs L declared compared to 
ONS data, as well as adding in a buffer of £200 for emergencies. It also took into account 
the credit commitments as evidenced on the credit file it obtained as part of its checks. 
Taking all of this information into account I consider 1Plus1 Loans fairly concluded Mrs L 
would be left with a reasonable disposable income per month, after taking into account the 
repayment of this loan, and therefore that this loan was sustainable affordable for her across 
its term. 
Mrs Ls credit file showed no signs of financial distress or anything that I consider ought to 
have been of concern to 1Plus 1 Loans which needed further review. She had two lines of 
credit totalling around £23,500 that had been in place for more than 12 months, and both 
appear to have been maintained well. There were no indicators that there had been missed 
payments or arrears within the previous 12 months; or any defaults or CCJs registered, or 
that Mrs L had been bankrupt on in an IVA. In addition, 1Plus1 Loans calculations showed 
Mrs L had a reasonable monthly debt repayment to income ratio at around 28% and had a 
relatively high overall credit score  suggesting she was managing her existing commitments 
and finances well.
Mrs L has said shed taken another loan in the days leading up to this loan  which 
demonstrates she was in financial difficulty as she was borrowing money to meet her 
existing commitments. And that a complaint referred to this other loan provider was upheld in 
her favour. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ls testimony here. But based on the checks 1Plus1 Loans 
completed, which Ive already found to be reasonable, I dont consider 1Plus1 Loans ought 
reasonably to have known Mrs L had recently been approved other lending. 
I say this because the information 1Plus1 Loans saw within Mrs Ls credit file didnt show this 
activity  and thats not unreasonable given how recently Mrs L says this loan was taken; 
and the time it can take for a credit file to update. 1Plus1 Loans assessed Mrs Ls application 
based on the information she had declared and the information it obtained through its 
checks. It has said that during the application calls Mrs L was asked if there was any other 
information about her expenses that it should be aware of, or if there was any reason Mrs L 
thought this loan would be unaffordable to her; to which she answered no to both questions. 
And I cant see Mrs L made 1Plus1 Loans aware of any further lending during the application 
stage. So, I dont consider there was anything to suggest to 1Plus1 Loans that this loan would be 
sustainably unaffordable to Mrs L across the duration of the term. Therefore, I consider 
1Plus1 Loans made a fair lending decision based on the information available to it.  
Did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs L has raised an additional point about not being sufficiently made aware of the details of 
early repayment charges applicable to the loan.
Ive considered if 1Plus1 Loans reasonably made Mrs L aware of the charges applicable if 
she did repay the loan early. The pre-contract credit information document and the credit 
agreement both set out under the headings titled Early repayment and Your right to repay 
early the terms when repaying the loan early. 
Mrs L hasnt told us that she didnt receive either document; and in any event she 
electronically signed the credit agreement to confirm her acceptance of the terms associated 
to the loan. So, I consider the details around early repayment of the loan were reasonably 
made aware to Mrs L. 
Ive not seen any other information which suggests 1Plus1 Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way in relation to Mrs Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint 
about 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman