DRN-4250024
The complaint
Miss B complains that Connells Limited failed to provide her with advice about her deposit 
scheme for her home and shes lost out as a result. 
What happened
Miss B applied for a mortgage with Connells Limited acting as the broker when she bought a 
new property.  She said she used Connells Limited as she felt it would provide her with 
suitable mortgage advice based on her financial position for her new home purchase.
Miss B was using funds from her Help to Buy ISA for her deposit and she explained this 
included a bonus payment of £3000. Unfortunately Miss Bs ISA didnt pay the bonus £3000 
because the value of the property she was purchasing exceeded the ISA schemes 
requirements. She wasnt told this until just before the purchase completed and it meant she 
had to borrow funds from her family to cover the shortfall in her deposit.
Miss B feels Connells Limited should have been aware of this when it was discussing her 
mortgage options and have highlighted that she would not get this bonus interest based on 
the value of her property.
Our investigator didnt think Connells Limited should have highlighted this, or that it had done 
anything wrong. He felt its role was to provide advice on the mortgage and it was 
unreasonable to believe that it would be aware of the deposit scheme Miss B used or 
expected to provide advice on this and how it operated. 
Miss B disagreed, she maintained that she felt Connells Limited advertised that it was an 
expert in purchases like hers and because of this, it should have been aware of the ISA and 
its limitations and provided advice on this. She paid for a service that she doesnt think she 
received as it failed to highlight that the ISA scheme would not pay its bonus because of the 
value of her purchase.
Because Miss B disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.  I 
know Miss B will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
Connells Limited is a mortgage broker and its role when working with Miss B was to provide 
suitable advice on the mortgage and her options. The crux of this complaint is whether I 
think it is fair to expect that it should have also given advice about Miss Bs help to buy ISA 
and how this scheme works.
Help to buy ISAs are a government scheme with a number of requirements that need to be 
met before the bonus interest payment is made, one of these requirements is the value of 
the property. The property purchase price must not exceed £250,000 or £450,000 if in 
London.  
I appreciate that Connells Limited does highlight its experience in obtaining help to by 
mortgages but I dont think it has done anything wrong when it didnt explain to Miss B that 
she wouldnt qualify for the ISA bonus. It wasnt a product sold by Connells Limited so I dont 
think it is fair to expect it to talk through the details of this scheme or product.  And as the 
money was coming from Miss Bs account, it is fair to believe that she would understand how 
this would operate and the limitations of the scheme and its bonus payment.
Connells Limited needed to confirm the amount of deposit Miss B had when understanding 
her mortgage needs as this impacted the amount of borrowing she required. When asked 
about the deposit she explained what she had and where the funds were coming from and I 
dont think Connells Limited did anything wrong when it didnt question Miss Bs 
understanding of the product she had and whether she qualified for this. As Ive said above, 
it was her account the funds were coming from and it is reasonable to believe she would be 
aware of how the ISA operated and whether she was inline with these terms. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Connells Limited did anything wrong and I dont think it would be 
fair to ask it to do anything else now in relation to this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman