DRN-2821016
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr J payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 27 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they now remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.
Mr J has said that, as he recalls, he was called in at very short notice to sign documents, as 
his mortgage deal was about to stop being available. He says he didnt require the PPI. 
If Mr J wasnt told that he had a genuine choice about taking the PPI, this would have been a 
mis-sale.  However, I dont have evidence that the PPI wasnt presented as a choice to him. I 
dont know whether Bank of Scotland discussed PPI during some earlier conversation. And, 
just because the finalising of the mortgage application was rushed, this doesnt mean the 
PPI wasnt set out as a choice in the documents or during a conversation. 
It wouldnt be fair to make Bank of Scotland prove it didnt do something wrong, especially so 
many years later  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably 
did do something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say 
that the PPI was mis-sold in that way. 
Ive thought about other ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold. But I dont think 
these apply in Mr Js case. I will explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr J, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Js 
particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Js situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr J was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a claim 
if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr J received full sick pay 
from his employer, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr J would need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr J in a more 
secure position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr J couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out. And Mr J could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr J would 
have been affected by any of these to such an extent it would have put him off taking 
the PPI.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr J to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr J took the PPI. I say this for the same reason I think a recommendation 
would have been suitable. I think its unlikely full and clear information would have made the 
PPI seem less useful.
So, overall, I dont have strong evidence that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr J. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman