DRN-3494078
The complaint
Mr E complains that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) wrongly advised him his credit card 
limit was near its limit, and information on his online statement was incorrect. He would like 
compensation for the time and distress of resolving this. And for Sainsburys to ensure its 
systems show up to date information .
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Es concern about  a text message from Sainsburys to say he had 
used more than 80% of his credit limit as he didnt believe this was the case. I have 
listened to the phone call Mr E had with Sainsburys and I dont accept Sainsburys 
view that Mr E knew what the issue was and didnt believe his account had been 
compromised. Although Mr E made a comment at the beginning of the call saying the 
issue was probably because he had spent a lot of money towards the end of the call 
, when he calmed down, he did say he had been worrying all day about the text 
message as he didnt understand why he got it. It didnt help that Mr E  had obviously 
tried but not been able to access his account online due to  his account information 
being out of date. I appreciate  keeping the account information up to date was Mr 
Es responsibility but  it meant a further delay in trying to work out what the issue was   
as he struggled to contact Sainsburys by phone.
I did think that in that phone call and in a subsequent one where Mr E logged a 
complaint that Sainsburys staff were professional and did their best to help Mr E. Mr 
Es online access were resolved in the first call. And in that call Sainsburys also  
explained that the reason for the text alert was that Mr Es account had not yet 
updated with a payment made. As soon as that went through Mr Es account would 
no longer be at the 80% of his  limit. This also explained the anomaly in the account 
statement figures. Mr E understood both the reason for the text and the online 
statement figures as soon as this was explained to him.
I appreciate Mr Es frustration that payments to accounts dont show immediately and 
he would like Sainsburys to amend its systems to do this. Thats not something that 
we can tell Sainsburys to do.  And I have noted Sainsburys point that its statements 
refer to the fact payments can take some time to process which is often the case for 
payments made to accounts. 
Sainsburys credited Mr Es credit card with £25 compensation  to reflect the 
inconvenience of its call times. Our investigator recommended Sainsburys paid a 
further £75. I  think this is reasonable. I appreciate staffing levels have been 
impacted by the pandemic and that had Mr E kept his account details up to date he 
might have been able to work out what the problem was sooner by going online.  But 
I do think Sainsburys text did cause him some genuine concern and the unfortunate 
time taken to speak to someone meant Mr E had to wait some time before the issue 
was resolved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Sainsburys Bank plc should pay Mr E an additional £75 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman