DRN-2533573
The complaint
 Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised her to invest in a Guaranteed 
Investment Bond.
What happened
 In 2005 Mrs T was aged 72, widowed and retired. She had a pension of £800 per month 
and just over £84,000 held on deposit.
A Lloyds adviser recommended she invest £20,000 in the GIB. There was a capital 
guarantee, with any return based on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over five and a 
half years. It would pay 75% of any increase in the index over the term.
In a provisional decision, I said:
I am satisfied from the evidence I have seen that Mrs T had no investment experience and 
was therefore likely to be completely reliant on the advisor to fully assess her circumstances 
and likely objectives.
According to Mrs Ts evidence, she hadnt sought advice but had been repeatedly 
encouraged to meet someone with a view to consider investing some of her money (held in 
secure savings accounts with guaranteed returns). This puts a particular responsibility, in my 
view, on the advisor to fully explain the advantages and disadvantages of any investment 
recommendation in order to ensure Mrs T was in a fully informed position to decide whether 
to put any of her money at risk (in this case, the risk of achieving no return over a lengthy 
period of time).
From what I have read, I am not persuaded that the advisor did this or that his 
recommendation fully took account of Mrs Ts likely objectives.
Firstly, I think Mrs Ts answers to the various risk questions give no indication that she was 
looking to take any risk with any of her money, including the risk of getting no interest/return 
for more than five years (something which could result in a very significant fall in its real 
value).
These are her responses to some of the key risk-based questions:
I am more concerned about keeping the money I have than the effects of inflation on 
it  Strongly Agree
The stability of my capital is more important to me than the return I may obtain  
Strongly Agree
I am not prepared to wait years to recover losses so prefer investments with the 
least risk (my italics) even if they involve potentially low returns: Strongly Agree
Crucially, the advisor failed to assess whether Mrs T was prepared to forego any 
interest/return on her capital in the hope of achieving a potentially higher growth via a risk-
based investment.
Yet he concludes, on the basis of her replies, that Mrs T would like potentially greater 
growth than you currently receive in your bank account. There is no evidence to warrant 
such a conclusion. If the advisor did use this phrase in conversation with Mrs T, it would not 
be surprising is she had agreed with it - who wouldnt want a higher return in principle?  but 
there is no evidence to indicate that the advisor fully explained the significance of the phrase 
or that she understood it i.e. the price one could pay in lost interest.
In the subsequent recommendations letter, the advisor makes no mention of this potentially 
significant downside to the GIB i.e. that Mrs T would get no return on this substantial portion 
of her savings and that, depending on the inflation rate over the period, this could result in a 
reduction in real terms of at least a quarter (or more) of the actual value of her money. In 
fact, the average UK savings rate was around 5% for the first four years of the invested 
period so the value of Mrs Ts money did fall substantially in real terms during the lifetime of 
the GIB.
Further, the evidence suggests that Mrs T had no knowledge of the FTSE and how it worked 
or generally fared so she would not have been in a position to assess the likelihood of it 
delivering a better return (via the GIB formula) than her existing savings account. It seems 
very unlikely, for example, that she would have been aware that had she invested in this 
product 5  years earlier she would have received no return by this advice date as the FTSE 
had fallen since 1999. This increases my reservations about the adequacy of this advice.
So there was an inherent risk with this product, particularly taking account the comparable 
historic data, and not merely something one can only conclude with hindsight.
Overall, I have seen no evidence to indicate that Mrs T was aware of this risk or was made 
aware of it by the advisor. I therefore dont believe she was in a fully informed decision to 
make this decision to place her money at risk of earning no return/interest over this lengthy 
period of time.
Given the fact that Mrs T did not seek investment advice, had no prior investment 
experience and taking into account her responses to the risk questionnaire, I do not believe 
 on the balance of probabilities  that she would have gone ahead with this investment if 
fairly and fully advised about its potential drawbacks.
On balance I think she would have kept her money in her existing savings account/s. Lloyds 
should therefore calculate how much Mrs Ts £20,000 would have grown by if kept in a 
secure interest-bearing account and pay the difference between this amount and the sum 
she received when the GIB matured.
To do so, it should use the standard risk-free returns formula recommended by this service: 
the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity. 
It should also pay interest on this sum of 8% simple from the date of maturity of the GIB to 
the date of settlement of this complaint.
In response, both Lloyds and Mrs T said they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  For the reasons previously outlined, I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld and 
with the compensation outlined above.Putting things right
Lloyds should calculate how much Mrs Ts £20,000 would have grown by if kept in a secure 
interest-bearing account and pay the difference between this amount and the sum she 
received when the GIB matured.
To do so, it should use the standard risk-free returns formula recommended by this service: 
the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity. 
It should also pay interest on this sum of 8% simple from the date of maturity of the GIB to 
the date of settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman