DRN-2082359
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance UK Plc (RSA)
has offered them for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a break-in at their home. They got in touch with RSA to make a claim. 
One of the things they claimed for was a designer watch owned by Mr C. They sent RSA a
valuation for the watch dated 2014. The valuation said Mr Cs particular watch had been
discontinued. The valuation named another model of watch by the same manufacturer as 
the current replacement.
RSA accepted the claim and it appointed its jewellery supplier to find a like-for-like
replacement for the watch. Because Mr Cs watch was no longer available, the supplier
based its replacement of the watch on the valuation given as the current replacement. The
supplier said it could get a replacement through one of its retailers. It offered a voucher to
spend in this retailer to the value of £6430.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the replacement offered. They didnt think the functionality
or look of the watch were the same. They wanted a cash settlement for the watch equal to
the amount itd been insured for on the policy schedule.
RSA agreed Mr and Mrs C could take a cash settlement. But it said this would be limited to
£4179.50  the amount it would pay for the watch, taking into account the supplier discounts
available to it. Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with RSAs offer and they asked us to look
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr Cs
watch had been of great sentimental value to him. She didnt think the aesthetic features of
the replacement RSA had suggested were a close enough match to what he had before. 
And she thought only Mr and Mrs C could decide what was an adequate replacement. So 
she didnt think RSA should limit its settlement to a watch it deemed suitable. She 
recommended RSA should pay Mr and Mrs C the value of the watch set out on the policy 
schedule.
RSA disagreed. It said the watch itd offered was the closest match available on todays
market. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought RSAs offer was fair and reasonable. I said:
Its clear from the detailed information that Mr and Mrs C have sent us that Mr Cs watch 
was special and of sentimental value to them. Im sorry to hear about the theft at their home 
and I dont doubt how stressful this situation has been for them.
But in making my decision, I have to take into account the information RSAs relied on to
come to its settlement offer and the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. So Ill look at each in
turn.
How RSA calculated settlement
Mr and Mrs C have a replacement policy with RSA. That means that RSA should try to
replace the watch on a like-for-like basis or provide as close a match as possible. In this
case, it isnt possible for RSA to provide an exact replacement because Mr Cs watch has
now been discontinued.
Ive also carefully considered the side-by-side comparison of the watch Mr C had and the
replacement RSA has proposed. I can see there are mechanical and aesthetic differences in
the watches. So I can understand why theyre concerned that the watch RSA has proposed
to replace it with isnt a close enough match.
But Ive also considered the evidence they provided to RSA in support of their claim. This
included a valuation dated 2014 for the watch. The jeweller noted that Mr Cs watch was no
longer in production and specified the current replacement model. Ive seen that the model
RSA based its replacement on was the model listed on the valuation. Its also checked with
its supplier, which confirmed that the replacement model is the closest match in todays
market.
Currently, in these particular circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to
base its settlement offer on the watch Mr and Mrs Cs jeweller thought was the closest
match. Hed had the opportunity to examine the watch and was able to judge the closest
replacement using his expert knowledge. And Mr and Mrs C havent provided us with any
evidence to show which watch they believe would be a closer match and explain why. Its
open to them to do so in response to this provisional decision though.
The policy terms
I appreciate Mrs C feels the policy terms dont make clear enough how RSA will settle
claims. She mentioned she felt the policy had been mis-sold to her and Mr C. RSA didnt sell
this policy though, so if Mr and Mrs C want to complain about the policy sale, theyll need to
get in touch with the policy seller.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy includes a section called How we settle claims'. In that section, it 
says:
If damage cant be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be replaced,
well replace it. And if a replacement isnt available, well replace it with an item of similar
quality.
If we cant economically repair an item or replace it with an item of similar quality, well agree
a cash payment with you based on the items replacement value.
You can request a cash settlement where were able to offer repair or replacement. If we
agree to this, the amount well pay wont normally be more than what we wouldve paid our
nominated repairers or product suppliers.
I accept the policy doesnt mention vouchers. But often, insurers will offer jewellery vouchers
to their policyholders to replace an item. In this case, RSA can get a broadly similar
replacement watch for Mr and Mrs C using its preferred supplier and the voucher amount its
offered is the price of the replacement model on the suppliers website. Because RSA can
offer a broadly similar replacement watch for Mr and Mrs C, in this case, I think its fair for it
to limit cash settlement to what it wouldve cost it to replace the watch using the discounts
available to it. Thats because Im satisfied its acting in line with its policy terms.So I dont currently plan to tell RSA to increase its cash offer should Mr and Mrs C choose to
take a cash settlement.
I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to consider.
RSA didnt add anything further.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept my provisional findings. They said they dont believe providing 
vouchers is acceptable. While it may be common practice, it isnt in any of the 
documentation they received and theyre not sure how they are expected to be aware of it. 
But they had no further evidence to send in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think RSAs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, where an insurers preferred supplier is able to 
provide a suitable replacement item to settle a claim, its common practice for the insurer to 
issue a policyholder with a voucher for it. The policyholder is then able to obtain a 
replacement item through that supplier. 
I appreciate the policy doesnt explicitly state that RSA may settle claims by offering 
vouchers. But I think it makes it clear enough that it may use its preferred suppliers in the 
settlement of claims. And as the voucher amount RSAs offered Mr and Mrs C matches the 
amount for the replacement watch listed on the suppliers website, I think its voucher offer is 
reasonable.
The policy is also clear that if a policyholder wants to take up the option of a cash settlement, 
RSA can limit this to the amount it wouldve cost it to purchase the item through its supplier. 
This means it may take advantage of supplier discounts that might not be available on the 
retail market. So I also think the cash settlement offer open to Mr and Mrs C is a fair one, 
even though I accept it is somewhat lower than the voucher settlement amount..
Its now open to Mr and Mrs C to decide which of these two options theyd like to accept and 
to get in touch with RSA to agree settlement. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman