DRN-2361855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) offered an unfair 
settlement value for their daughters laptop, following a claim on their gadget insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold a gadget insurance policy with Assurant. Their daughter, who was at 
university, had an Apple MacBook air (2015) and the screen was accidently damaged. As 
this is covered under the policy Mr P registered a claim for this. 
The claim was registered online, as per the policy instructions, on 12 October 2019. Mr and 
Mrs P paid the £75 excess and arranged for their daughter to send her laptop to Assurant. It 
was received by Assurant for repair on 4 November 2019. 
Mr and Mrs P were sent the following, notifying them of the process the claim would follow 
once the laptop had been received by the repair centre:
What will happen when our repair centre received your device?
They will complete a factory reset which will erase all remaining data from the gadget
They will aim to repair and return your gadget within 5 working days of receiving it. 
Once your gadget has been repaired it will be sent to you the next working day 
During the repair process, we will not repair any cosmetic damage or damage 
caused by wear and tear
 What happens if we cannot repair your gadget? 
If we are unable to repair your gadget, a replacement will be sent to you within 1-3 
working days. If we dont have the same make and model in stock, we will contact you 
within 2 working days to discuss the other options available. 
Mr P called to chase the claim on 7 November 2019 as he hadnt heard from it. He was told 
that the repair was happening, and it should be ready to go out the following day.
Mr P called again on 15 November 2019, having not heard from it since his last call. During 
this call he was told there had been two updates to the claim on 13 November 2019. One 
update said the laptop had been dispatched but wasnt showing a courier consignment 
number. The other update said the laptop had been deemed beyond economical repair. The 
call operator said he had no way of knowing which was correct and as the repair centre was 
closed for the weekend, this couldnt be checked until the following Monday.
On 19 November 2019 Assurant offered Mr and Mrs P a cash settlement of £458.33 for the 
laptop as it was unable to provide a replacement. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the 
settlement amount. They felt it was too low and they couldnt replace the laptop, with a like 
for like one from a reputable seller, with the amount offered. They asked for their laptop to be 
returned. Assurant said it couldnt return the laptop. Mr and Mrs P complained about this and 
the delays during the claim, which impacted their daughter as she couldnt use the laptop for 
her university work. Assurant maintained its cash settlement offer and the stance that it 
couldnt return the laptop but offered £30 in recognition of the delays during the claim. Mr 
and Mrs P turned the offer down and brought the complaint to this service.
The investigator considered the case and felt that Assurant had dealt with the claim fairly 
and that the £30 it had offered for the delays was in line with what they wouldve 
recommended. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
Initial findings
My initial findings were set out in my provisional decision on 10 November 2020. Where I 
partially upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
In summary I said:
the valuation Assurant had placed on the laptop was done so fairly, and I didnt think 
it needed to increase it. And it should now pay Mr and Mrs P the cash settlement 
amount for the laptop.
Assurant shouldnt have disposed of the laptop before a settlement was agreed as it 
wasnt their property until the claim was settled and so it should pay Mr and Mrs P 
£250 to compensate them for this
Assurant wasnt proactive in dealing with Mr and Mrs Ps claim it failed to contact 
them when it should have and didnt meet its own service level agreements and so it 
should increase its offer of £30 to £100 for the trouble and upset caused by this.
I invited both parties to reply.
Assurant replied and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs P replied and said they accepted the findings but were disappointed that the 
value of the laptop wasnt increased. To summarise they said they felt the valuation was 
based on a back street on-line selling nobody to ensure the lowest settlement figure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons, but I will address the point raised by Mr and Mrs P.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P still feel the laptop was worth more than the value Assurant 
placed on it, but I havent seen any evidence to support that. Assurant were able to show 
that it could buy a second hand refurbished model of the laptop for the settlement amount 
offered. Assurant was also able to show that the seller was a reputable one. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs P didnt want to purchase a replacement on-line, but the policy 
isnt a new for old one. Because of that I cant fairly expect Assurant to increase the value of 
the laptop to more than it would reasonably have to pay for a replacement. I understand this 
may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but hope that my explanation has been 
helpful here.
Putting things rightTo put things right here Assurant should pay the case settlement of the claim and 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for disposing of their property and the poor service they received.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
against Assurant General Insurance Limited. To put things right I now require it to:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the cash settlement value for the laptop
Pay a total of £350 in compensation for disposing of laptop before the claim was 
settled, misinforming Mr and Mrs P throughout the claim and for the delays and lack 
of proactive contact.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman