DRN-2905740
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Canada Life Limited because it refused to remove his personal 
information, including medical history, from its records.   
What happened
Mr B was part of a group income protection scheme, offered through his employer. In 2015, 
Mr B began to suffer with an illness that had the potential to keep him off work for an 
extended period. His employer initiated the processes involved with claiming on the group 
income protection scheme as there was a possibility Mr B would have exceeded his 
occupational sickness allowance. However, this didnt happen as Mr B recovered by early 
2016 and so there was no need for his employer to continue the claim. 
Mr Bs complaint is borne from this period as he requested that Canada Life delete his 
personal information under the rules of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Mr 
B said hes incredibly careful about the information companies hold about him, having fallen 
prey to some of the sophisticated data breaches that have occurred within large 
organisations over the years. Mr B has had first-hand experience of his personal information 
being stolen and used, without his consent and, at times, without his knowledge. Mr B said 
that as no claim was assessed, Canada Life doesnt need to retain this information. 
Our investigator agreed and recommended Canada Life delete all personal medical records 
pertaining to Mr B and pay him £200 for the trouble and upset it caused. She accepted that 
Canada Life may need to retain some information, but this should be limited to a record of 
the potential claim.  
Canada Life, in summary, says it has the right to hold on to all Mr Bs personal information 
as there could potentially be a need to reconsider it at another time  in light of another 
potential claim. It said the information its recorded is relevant and the rules say that it can 
retain information it deems material. And so, its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for all the reasons already given by our 
investigator. There was no claim awarded in the circumstances because Mr B was able to 
return to work, prior to needing his claim to be assessed. And so, although I understand 
there needs to be some record of that claim, Im persuaded it shouldnt be anything related 
to Mr Bs medical information, medical opinions, the claim form or the assessment summary 
 all of which Mr B has already requested be deleted. 
I think that for administration or audit purposes, there needs to be some record of Mr Bs 
potential claim and so I think some information should be recorded, but this should be limited 
and any unnecessary data, information or medical records must be removed. 
Mr B is able to ask Canada Life to do this because of the GDPR act, which says;
Art 17.1
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of personal 
data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller shall have the obligation 
to erase personal data without undue delay where one of the following grounds applies:
(a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which
they were collected or otherwise processed.
I consider this information to be deemed no longer necessary as, put simply, there was no 
claim to consider. Canada Life wouldnt have had access to any of this information but for 
the proactive administration of Mr Bs employer. And so, I think it no longer necessary for it 
to continue to hold Mr Bs data this way. Further, should Mr B make another claim later, his 
medical information will still be available should Canada Life wish to access it through the 
appropriate channels. So, I disagree that by deleting the medical information held would 
prejudice its position should Mr B make a claim in the future. 
Canada Life didnt comply with Mr Bs request and so this has been very timely for him  
which is why I also agree with the compensatory award made by the investigator. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Canada Life Limited must delete the personal medical 
information held unnecessarily on its records. It must now pay Mr B £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman