DRN-3174271
The complaint
Mr C complains that JD Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly increased the limit on his 
shopping credit account and increased the interest rate on the account overtime.
What happened
Mr C took a shopping account with JD Williams in April 2017. The account had an opening 
credit limit balance of £125. 
Mr C said when the account was first taken out he was earning around twenty-two thousand 
pounds a year but two months after the account was opened, he was made redundant. This 
meant his income decreased significantly with his salary being replaced by carers allowance 
and universal credit giving a total monthly income of around £460 a month. 
JD Williams increased the credit limit on the account seven times resulting in a total credit 
limit of £1800 in August 2018. The breakdown of these increases is as follows:
Date Limit
April 2017 (opening limit) £125
September 2017 £200
December 2017 £300
January 2018 £500
February 2018 £700
April 2018 £750
May 2018 £1200
August 2018 £1800
JD Williams has explained when the account was first opened, it carried out credit reference 
checks as well as information from the electoral register to determine whether it was willing 
to provide the credit. It often provides a lower balance than it checks determine are 
affordable but the limit is increased overtime. Similar checks were carried out when the 
credit increases were applied as well as consideration to the previous account usage and 
history.
Mr C feels that had JD Williams carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when his 
credit limit was increased, it would have identified that the borrowing was unaffordable based 
on his income versus his expenditure. In the absence of this, he feels the increases have 
been irresponsible. He said he needed to take out a personal loan to clear the balance on 
the account after the repayments became too much.
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint and said he felt JD Williams needed to do 
something to put things right. He didnt think JD Williams had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr C as to whether he would be able to afford to meet the 
repayments of his account in a sustainable way. There was a point in time when he felt JD 
Williams should have asked for more information. If it had done this it would have been clear 
that Mr C was not in a good financial situation and it was unlikely that hed be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way  so without risk of detriment to himself.
The checks needed to be borrower focused so what is appropriate for one customer might 
not be for another. And in some circumstances a less detailed assessment could be deemed 
reasonable and proportionate. He felt this was the case for the borrowing from April 2017 
until January 2018, but in February 2018 it was reasonable to expect JD Williams to carry 
out further checks. He said had this happened it would have been clear that Mr C was 
struggling financially. 
As a result he felt JD Williams should refund the interest and charges applied to the account 
from February 2018 for any borrowing which exceeded the previous credit limit increase 
from January. So interest and charges applied on the balance, less £500 (the previous and 
last increase applied when reasonable and proportionate checks were completed) should be 
refunded.
He didnt agree the APR rate of the account had been increased though. He explained the 
account had been opened with an APR rate of 64.9% and this was the interest rate applied 
to the account for its duration.
JD Williams disagreed; it didnt believe that Mr Cs credit information demonstrated anything 
which would flag concern with his score overall generally being good. And with his history of 
meeting the minimum repayments and often more than these on the account, it didnt think it 
would have been proportionate to carry out further checks. It felt its checks demonstrated 
that Mr C could afford to repay this borrowing in a sustainable way and it hadnt been 
irresponsible with its lending.
Mr C disagreed with the redress recommendation. He felt the additional increases made the 
total amount repayable unaffordable and asked that all interest and charges on the account 
be refunded from February 2018.
Because JD Williams and Mr C disagreed with our recommendaion, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.
As our investigator did, Ill quickly address Mr Cs point about the APR charged on his 
account. JD Williams has demonstrated that the APR on the account when it was taken out 
was 64.9% and it remained at this level throughout the time the account was open. So I cant 
see that this was increased at any point beyond the rate agreed when Mr C applied for the 
borrowing.Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending can be found on our website and Ive 
followed this approach when considering Mr Cs complaint.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out rules and regulations in place when JD 
Williams provided Mr C with the credit account. These require JD Williams to carry out a 
credit worthiness assessment with reasonable and proportionate checks to determine 
whether Mr C could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way. These need to be 
borrower focused which means the consideration should be given to whether, repaying the 
credit in a sustainable way could result in difficulties for Mr C. 
There is no set list of checks that need to be carried out for each lending application to 
define what a proportionate check is. And with these needing to be borrower focused, it 
follows that what is proportionate for one person may not be for another, and as peoples 
circumstances change, what was proportionate before may no longer be. 
JD William have explained that before increasing a customers credit limit, it carries out an 
assessment which includes checks with credit reference agencies  so it doesnt rely on the 
information gathered with the initial assessment. It also uses its knowledge of the customers 
behaviour with their account. It feels these checks are reasonable and proportionate for the 
level of borrowing it offers and it would be disproportionate to go further based on what it 
knew about Mr C when conducting these checks at each increase. 
Although CONC doesnt set out a definite list of factors that should be considered when 
lending to determine if checks were proportionate, it does list things that a business would 
need to consider. This includes the type and amount of credit as well as the likely duration of 
it.
JD Williams feels that Mr Cs credit reference information together with the management of 
his account with it demonstrated he was able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
And that these checks were proportionate for each credit increase.
With the amount of credit changing each time, I think its fair to expect that the level of 
checks needed would increase as the credit did. And so while these checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate at one point, they may later not be.
In September 2017 Mr Cs account had its first increase applied. The previous usage 
showed hed at times been close to or more than his credit limit. But payments had been 
made regularly and the information returned on his credit reference didnt flag any concerns. 
This coupled with the amount of credit being extended to only £200 means I feel the checks 
at this point were reasonable and proportionate. 
The next increase was to £300 in December 2017. The balance at this point was still 
relatively low and while Mr C had often been close to his previous new limit of £200, I dont 
think its reasonable to expect JD Williams to have carried out any further checks when it 
increased the limit in December. Mr C continued to use the account in a similar way to how 
he had previously once the limit was increased, he quickly took advantage of this and 
remained close to or over the limit. 
In January 2018 the credit limit was increased again, this time to £500. Although now 
significantly higher than his opening credit limit balance, the total amount of available 
borrowing was low. And although Mr C often ran the account close to its limit, the regular 
payments to it together with the information returned from the credit report didnt flag any 
areas of concern. So I think to this point, the checks completed by JD Williams were 
reasonable and proportionate. And I think it demonstrated that it was likely Mr C was able to 
repay this borrowing in a sustainable way.At the end of January 2018 Mr Cs outstanding balance had risen to over £400 against his 
credit limit of £500. So as with previous months and his credit increase, hed quickly used 
the additional funds available. 
In February 2018, JD Williams increased the limit on Mr Cs account again using the same 
checks as before. However, the credit limit was now increasing to £700. The interest rate on 
the borrowing was high and as the credit limit increased, the potential repayments even to 
maintain the minimum repayment on the account increased. And with Mr Cs behaviour over 
the months prior to this now clearly demonstrating a need to use the majority of the credit 
limit in a very short space of time, I think JD Williams should have gone further with its 
checks at this point to understand whether the increased borrowing was still affordable to 
Mr C based on his circumstances. 
I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to request more information from 
Mr C ahead of the credit limit increase in February 2018 to validate his income and 
understand his expenditure. Had bank statements been requested, it would have been clear 
Mr Cs main income was his benefit payments and his transaction history demonstrated a 
large number of gambling transactions. 
I think had this information been requested, its likely JD Williams would have realised that 
the increased credit limit wasnt something that Mr C could demonstrate was affordable to 
him on a sustainable basis. Because of this, I think the increases to the credit limit in 
February 2018 were unfair and it follows the subsequent increases should not have been 
offered had adequate checks been carried out at this point.
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I think the checks carried out to a point were reasonable and proportionate 
and I think JD Williams made a fair lending decision when increasing Mr Cs credit limit up to 
£500. But after this point I think it should have gone further with its checks and this would 
have demonstrated that additional increases in the credit limit were unaffordable and 
unsustainable to Mr C. JD Williams needs to do the following to put things right:
1. JD Williams needs to identify the interest and charges Mr C paid on any borrowing in 
excess of £500. 
2. As Mr Cs account has now been closed, it should refund the interest charges 
identified when carrying out point one with 8% simple interest added*.
3. Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file as a result of the charges 
and interest.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require JD Williams to take off tax from this interest. If this is 
the case, JD Williams must give Mr C a certificate to confirm how much tax its taken of if he 
asks for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against JD Williams & 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman