DRN-2562156
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect 
handled a request to cancel his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought a home insurance policy with an insurer, via Avantia. When it came up for 
renewal in July 2018, Mr S was no longer living at the property hed shared with Mrs S. Mrs 
S was paying for the policy. She contacted Avantia in July 2018 and asked it not to renew 
the policy as shed found cheaper insurance elsewhere. 
Avantia told Mrs S it couldnt accept her request to cancel the policy as she wasnt the 
policyholder. But it said Mr S could cancel the policy by email or phone. Mrs S told Avantia 
she wasnt in communication with Mr S. She provided contact details for Mr S and Avantia 
contacted him. 
Avantia sent Mr S a form to complete to change the policyholder to Mrs S. Mr S didnt know 
Mrs S wanted to cancel the policy. Mr S said he doesnt recall if he returned the change of 
policyholder form.
In January 2020 Mrs S noticed that she was still paying for the policy with Avantia. She 
cancelled the Direct Debit Instruction and complained to Avantia. 
Avantia said that as Mr S didnt return the form to change the policyholder, it hadnt done 
anything wrong as it had no authority to cancel the policy. It agreed to cancel the policy from 
January 2020 and waived its cancellation fee. 
Mr S asked us to look at things for him. He said he spoke to Avantia in 2018 but they didnt 
mention the cancellation request. He didnt understand why they asked him to complete a 
change of policyholder form, rather than just ask him if he was happy for the policy to be 
cancelled. He thought this was obstructive, as the only reason for the change of policyholder 
request was to allow Mrs S to cancel the policy. Mr S wanted Avantia to refund the payments 
Mrs S had made from the date she told it of her request to cancel the policy. 
Call notes provided by Avantia showed that when it spoke to Mr S, it didnt mention the 
cancellation request. It said Mrs S had requested a change of policyholder and asked Mr S 
to return a form to allow this, which he agreed. Our investigator thought Avantia should have 
told Mr S that Mrs S had asked to cancel the policy. So she thought Avantia hadnt acted 
fairly and recommended it backdate the cancellation to July 2018. She thought Avantia 
should refund payments made to the account(s) they were taken from since July 2018. She 
thought Avantia should pay interest on the refund at 8% simple interest a year. 
Mr S accepted the investigators findings. Avantia didnt reply. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the email exchanges between Avantia and Mrs S in July 2018, I think it was clear that 
Mrs S didnt want the policy to renew in July 2018. She told Avantia shed obtained cover 
elsewhere. 
Avantia was correct in telling Mrs S that it couldnt carry out any changes to the policy 
without authorisation from Mr S, as he was the only named policyholder. However, it told her 
that Mr S could cancel the policy by phone or email. 
When Avantia spoke to Mr S later in July 2018, it failed to mention that Mrs S wanted to 
cancel the policy. It told him that she had asked for the policy to be changed to her name. Mr 
S agreed to return a change of policyholder form which Avantia sent to him by email.
I dont think Avantia acted reasonably here. Had they communicated with Mr S that Mrs S 
wanted to cancel the policy, I think its more likely than not that he would have given his 
authorisation. And so had Avantia been clearer, the change of policyholder form wouldnt 
have been necessary and the policy wouldnt have renewed in July 2018.
So Im upholding this complaint and I think Avantia should put things right in line with the 
investigators recommendations which Ive set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Avantia Insurance Limited trading 
as Homeprotect to compensate Mr S by arranging for the cancellation of the renewal of his 
policy from 27 July 2018. It should provide a refund of all premiums paid since then to the 
accounts collected from. Avantia should pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year from the date originally paid to the date of the refund.
Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Avantia considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman