DRN-2406072
The complaint
Mr E complains about end of contract charges after his credit agreement, with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS), ended and he returned the car.
.What happened
In January 2017, Mr E entered into a three-year Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) for a 
used car. The car was around nine months and had a mileage of 10,350.
The agreement matured in January 2020, and Mr E decided to return the car. The car was 
initially inspected with Mr E present and an appraisal report was prepared. This report noted 
damage to three of the cars alloy wheels, and its front and rear bumpers. Mr E also took 
photos of the damage.
The car was the subject of a further inspection in February 2020 and a detailed report, with a 
video and photos, was prepared. An invoice for end of contract charges was sent to Mr E, 
totalling £720. The damage that was noted was:
Front bumper scratch £210
Bumper moulding at the rear insecure £35
Bumper rear scratch £210
General exterior too dirty £10
Left-hand front polished alloy £85
Left-hand rear polished alloy £85
Right-hand front polished alloy £85.
Mr E disagreed with the charges and contacted MBFS who agreed, after reviewing the 
damage, to remove the charges for the exterior of the car being dirty and the right-hand front 
alloy being damaged. This reduced the invoice to £625.
Mr E complained to MBFS and said that he believed the car had been damaged after it had 
been collected, and before it had been inspected the second time. He said the scratches that 
had been present amounted to fair wear and tear. He also complained about MBFSs 
handling of his complaint, including not answering emails he had sent.
MBFS upheld his complaint, in that it agreed the charges for the bumper moulding should 
also have been removed. But it said the charges for the damage to both bumpers and the 
two alloy wheels were correct.
MBFS said that, as a gesture of goodwill, it would deduct 15% off the remaining charges on 
the invoice, due to the overall service Mr E had received. This left £501.50 as the end of 
contract charges.
Mr E disagreed with the decision of MBFS and complained to this service. He said the car 
had been damaged after it had been collected, and before it had been inspected in February 
2020, which was a month later. The damage that had originally been present amounted to 
wear and tear only, and the end of contract charges should therefore be waived.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He said he 
thought the evidence provided showed the car had incurred damage to both its bumpers, 
and the two alloy wheels. And that this damage, in line with the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA), guidelines was beyond what would be considered fair wear 
and tear.
Our investigator said that, while he appreciated Mr E disputed he had been responsible for 
all of the damage shown on the front bumper, his own photos had shown scratches on that 
bumper which were beyond fair wear and tear, and so would have been chargeable. He said 
Mr E hadnt been charged for multiple damage to that bumper, so the charge was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Our investigator said that, looking at the photos of the damage to the two alloys and back 
bumper, which were shown in both Mr Es own photos and those included with the 
inspection report, he was satisfied these were beyond fair wear and tear. He said it was fair 
that MBFS charged Mr E for these.
In regard to the reduction offered by MBFS of 15%, our investigator said he thought that was 
fair and he wouldnt ask it to do more.
Mr E disagrees with our investigators view. He says that the damage, shown in the photos 
of the inspection undertaken in February 2020, didnt match either his photos or the damage 
recorded on the appraisal report. He says its unfair that he is charged for damage he wasnt 
responsible for.
As the parties havent agreed the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E says that the area of damage that he is contesting is shown in two of the photos, 
provided with the inspection report prepared in February 2020, of damage to the front 
bumper. He says this damage doesnt match with what was shown in his photos taken in the 
presence of the agent who collected the car, nor does it match what was recorded on the 
appraisal report.
It appears from Mr Es comments that he is no longer disputing the charges for the damage 
to the two alloys and back bumper. However, in case I have misunderstood Mr Es stance, 
and as he originally disagreed that any of the charges were fair, I will consider all of the end 
of the contract charges that are outstanding.
Under the hire purchase agreement if Mr E chose not to pay the optional purchase payment, 
then he had to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions. The agreement 
set out that, when the car was returned, its condition must be in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards. The agreement then provided a list of what was and wasnt considered to be 
acceptable in terms of wear on the bodywork, tyres and interior. 
In regard to the condition of the bumpers, the agreement sets out that scuff marks up to 
50mm which do not adversely effect the overall appearance of your car were acceptable. 
But discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers..that require 
painting and dents penetrating through to the base material where painted were not.In respect of the alloy wheels scuffed sidewalls can be cleaned are acceptable, as is minor 
scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face. 
However, cracked or distorted wheel trims and scuffs, chips and scratches exceeding 
25mm were not.
In making my decision, as to whether it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr E for the damage 
found on the car, Ive considered the above guidelines, Mr Es photos, the appraisal report 
and the inspection report and photos. Ive also looked at the BVRLA guidelines on wear and 
tear, as these set the industry standard as to what is and isnt fair wear and tear to a vehicle 
thats returned at the end of a credit agreement.
I have also taken into account that this was a used car at the point it was acquired by Mr E, 
so had had some use. However, as it was under one year with a mileage of 10,000 miles, I 
think its reasonable to have expected the bodywork and tyres to have been in good 
condition, showing only little signs of use. So, I think its fair to think of the car as nearly new 
at the point of sale. 
The Front Bumper
Mr E says that the damage shown in two of the photos provided with the inspection report 
occurred after the car was collected. He says this is supported by his photos of that bumper, 
and the appraisal report. Looking at the appraisal report I can see that there are two 
scratches reported, being either side of the bumper. Mr Es photos are unclear as to what is 
the front and back bumper, as they are unlabelled and taken at different angles from those in 
the inspection report. However, the photos of the bumpers show a number of scratches 
which have gone through to the base layer, and two of which exceed 25mm. The inspection 
report photos show, on the drivers side of the bumper, an area of scuffing and several 
scratches. And, on the passenger side, a deep scratch which appears to match one of the 
photos Mr E took of the bumper. 
I accept that the inspection photos appear to show more damage to the front bumper than 
appear in Mr Es photos. I also accept that the appraisal report doesnt indicate that the 
amount of damage is as large on the drivers side as that shown in the later photos. So, I 
think this does raise the possibility that the car has been damaged after it was collected from 
Mr Es home. However, it also looks like it is the same scratch shown on the passenger side, 
in both Mr Es and the inspection photos.
So, when considering whether the charge for damage to the front bumper is fair in these 
circumstances, I cant disregard that the evidence shows the front bumper had also 
sustained some damage prior to the car being collected from Mr E. And that this damage 
wouldnt have be considered as fair and wear, as from both sets of photos the scratch is 
deep, penetrating down to the base and exceeding 25mm in length. 
I appreciate Mr E is concerned that he is being charged for damage that he wasnt 
responsible for, but Ive seen that the charge for the front bumper is £210, which is the same 
for the back bumper that also sustained scratch damage. Mr E has therefore only been 
charged for one set of damage, and not per scratch or scuff. So, even if I discounted the 
damage to the drivers side of the front bumper, it would still be fair for Mr E to be charged 
for damage on the passenger side. And the charge for that would still have been £210. So, I 
cant reasonably say Mr E has been charged for damage he wasnt liable for.
The Back Bumper
The appraisal report records one scratch to the back on the drivers side. The inspection 
photos of the bumper show two deep scratches that, at points, penetrate to the base and Mr Es own photos show deep scratches. Looking at the depth of these scratches, into the 
paintwork, they are not what would be reasonably considered fair wear and tear. I think 
MBFS was acting fairly when it charged Mr E for this damage.
The Alloy Tyres
The appraisal report records scuffs to three of the alloys and Mr Es photos, while not 
labelled as to which of the tyres they are showing, do reveal a number of scuff marks and 
damage to the spokes. The inspection photos show damage similar to that recorded by Mr 
E. Looking at what is and isnt acceptable I think the damage to the left-hand front and rear 
alloys has been fairly charged.
Looking at the charges of each of the items damaged I cant reasonably say this is excessive 
and appears in line with charges Ive seen for similar types of damage.
Looking through all the evidence I have received, and for the reasons given above, I dont 
think MBFS has acted unfairly in charging Mr E for the damage to both bumpers and two of 
the alloys. I also think its offer to reduce the overall invoice by 15%, in recognition of the 
overall service Mr E had received, was fair. Im not going to ask MBFS to further reduce the 
end of contract charges from £501.50. And Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman