The complaint
Ms D complains about poor service from TSB Bank plc in connection with her replacement 
debit card.
What happened
Ms D contacted TSB because her debit card had expired. TSB had sent a replacement card 
to Ms Ds old address, although Ms D said shed informed the bank of her new address.
TSB then sent another card to Ms Ds correct address. But the card wasnt contactless. Ms 
D had to contact the bank several times to chase up the card. But each time TSB sent her a 
card that wasnt contactless.
During the course of the complaint TSB advised it wasnt possible to send Ms D a 
contactless card because she lives overseas. Contactless cards are only available to 
customers based in the UK.
TSB offered Ms D compensation of £195. This was made up of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience, £85 for the cost of international calls and £10 to cover the cost of transferring 
money between her accounts.
Our investigator said TSB should pay a further £50 compensation. He considered it had 
taken the bank too long to replace Ms Ds card, and that it hadnt done enough to find out 
what was causing the problems. When the investigator made his recommendation, at that 
point TSB hadnt identified that it couldnt issue contactless cards to overseas customers.
Ms D said she didnt consider the additional compensation properly reflected the amount of 
time shed spent trying to get a new card, or the cost of the international calls shed made.
TSB said it wasnt willing to pay the additional compensation. It said Ms D had been able to 
use a debit card, even though it wasnt contactless.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D first contacted TSB when her previous debit card expired in January 2019. Shes said 
throughout her complaint that shed updated her address when she moved, but TSB had 
sent the replacement card to her old address. 
DRN-1754336Ms D has also told me that the £100 compensation TSB paid was for the inconvenience 
caused by failing to properly update her address. TSBs phone notes seem to support what 
Ms D has said. 
When Ms D first contacted TSB in January 2019, the bank shouldve told her at that point 
that it couldnt issue contactless debit cards to an overseas address.
Had it done so, Ms D couldve avoided the inconvenience and cost of having to contact TSB 
to chase up the card. TSB has paid £85 to cover those costs, and I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Im mindful that its taken over a year to establish why TSB couldnt provide the card Ms D 
was seeking. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for the bank to pay £100, in 
addition to the £100 it paid for failing to properly update Ms Ds address.
Putting things right
TSB should pay £100 to Ms D, in addition to the compensation it has already paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I direct TSB Bank plc to pay £100 to Ms D, in addition to the 
compensation it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman