DRN-4356551
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with what Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited did after they 
contacted it to report a change in health as required by their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have an annual travel insurance policy with Admiral which started in 
November 2021. In February 2023 they contacted Admiral and said they were due to go on 
holiday the following week. They wanted to let Admiral know Mr S had been referred for 
investigation of a wisdom tooth. Admiral said it wasnt able to provide cover where a 
policyholder was on a waiting list for tests, investigation or further treatment. It said it would 
cancel Mr and Mrs Ss policy and refund the premium paid. 
Our investigator thought it was fair and in line with the policy terms for Admiral to vary cover 
in the event of a change in health. However, despite a number of requests it hadnt provided 
underwriting criteria to support the decision it had taken in this case. In addition, it wasnt 
clear Mr and Mrs S had been given the option to cancel their trip and make a claim on their 
policy when they spoke to Admiral. 
She thought since they subsequently travelled without insurance when they couldnt find 
alternative cover its likely thats what theyd have done even if a cancellation claim had been 
discussed with them. However, she thought Admiral should also have offered to pay the 
difference in premium between their policy and any new cover they took out up to the 
amount it would have paid out for a cancellation claim. If that had been done Mr and Mrs S 
might not have needed to travel uninsured. She said Admiral should pay them £100 in 
recognition of the distress they were caused. 
Admiral didnt agree. It thought it would only need to cover the cost of a new policy if it had 
done something wrong which wasnt the case here. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree either. They 
said it had now cost them £250 to take out travel insurance which they wouldnt have 
needed to do if Admiral had continued to cover them. And it wasnt made clear when they 
took out the policy that Admiral could withdraw cover in the event of a change in health. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy. This says after you 
have paid for this policy, if you are diagnosed with a new medical condition or if your health 
changes, such as you are placed on waiting list for test, investigations or treatment, you 
must tell us immediately regardless of whether you have any trips booked or not
And once a change in health has been report the policy says we may vary the terms of your 
cover, which can include you having to pay an additional premium if we agree to cover it. If 
you do not want to pay the additional premium, the policy will be cancelled and a
proportionate refund given (providing you have not made a claim or not about to).
If Admiral isnt able to continue with cover then the policy will be cancelled and a 
proportionate refund given (providing you have not made a claim or not about to) or 
alternatively you can make a cancellation claim for trips already booked (up to the amount 
paid so far).
I think those terms are sufficiently clear and I dont think its unfair of Admiral to act in line 
with those terms where a change of health has been disclosed to it. And while Mr and Mrs S 
say they didnt understand Admiral could act as it has those sort of terms are common to 
most travel insurance policies. I recognise they dont feel cancellation was a reasonable or 
proportionate response to the issue they disclosed but Admiral says its policy is to decline 
cover where people are placed on a waiting list for tests, investigation or further treatment. 
And I dont think thats unreasonable in principle because in that situation an insurer is 
unable to assess what additional potential risk the change in health may cause. 
However, Admiral should nevertheless be able to provide evidence in support of its position. 
Im disappointed to note that despite repeated requests since the complaint was first made 
to us Admiral has failed to provide us with underwriting evidence in support of its decision. 
As a result Im unable to conclude it acted in line with those criteria when cancelling 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy. 
I also agree that Admiral should in any case have made clear when it spoke to Mr and Mrs S 
they had the option of making a cancellation claim for their upcoming trip. Its not clear 
whether it did that. And I dont think its in dispute that it didnt offer to cover the cost of any 
new insurance cover, up to the value of any cancellation claim that could have been made 
(less any refund of premium that had been provided).
I appreciate Admiral doesnt feel that was something it should have offered but I dont agree. 
Our general approach is that its fair and reasonable for an insurer to do so. Thats because 
the cost of the alternative insurance is often far less than the cost the insurer would 
otherwise have paid had the consumer decided to cancel their holiday. By not making a 
cancellation claim and instead choosing to take out cover elsewhere and continue their trip, 
the consumer has effectively reduced the insurers exposure to loss. 
Ive gone on to think about what Admiral needs to do to put things right. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
cancel their trip or take out alternative cover for it but travelled without insurance. So I dont 
think Admiral caused Mr and Mrs S any direct financial loss in the circumstances of this 
case. And fortunately nothing happened on that trip which could have given rise to an 
insurance claim. I also note Mr and Mrs S told us that they are no longer interested in 
reinstatement of their policy or in having future dealings with Admiral. I understand theyve 
now taken out cover with an alternative provider. I accept theres a cost to that but I think 
thats a cost theyd most likely always have needed to pay if they wanted to have insurance 
cover in place (given their existing policy would have ended in November 2023 in any case). 
Taking all of that into account I think the key thing Admiral needs to compensate them for is 
the stress and inconvenience they were caused by having to travel uninsured. I think its 
likely that could have been avoided if it had acted as it should. Our investigator thought that 
£100 was the right amount to recognise the impact of that on them and Mr and Mrs S 
havent made specific comments about this in their further comments to us. Having reviewed 
matters I think thats a fair way of putting things right in this case. 
Finally, I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have raised broader concerns about the travel insurance 
market more generally and feel there should be a Government backed alternative. However, thats not something I can reach a finding on. My role is to reach a decision on the complaint 
theyve made to us about Admiral and Ive explained my reasons for that. Mr and Mrs S are 
of course free to raise their concerns with the Government or their MP if they feel these are 
matters that require a political solution.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited will need to put 
things right by paying Mr and Mrs S £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman