DRN-3272088
The complaint
Miss O has complained about a loan granted to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which she said was unaffordable. She also complains about ELLs 
debt collection tactics.
What happened
ELL provided a loan to Miss O on 2 August 2018. The loan was for £1,300 and was 
repayable by 18 monthly payments of £117. The interest rate on the loan was 67.9%, 
(93.6% APR). If  Miss O made each repayment when it was due, she would pay £2,106 in 
total.
Miss O said that the loan was clearly unaffordable due to her credit score at the time, yet 
ELL still offered her the loan. At the time she was desperate for credit as she was the sole 
provider at her house. She was under a great amount of stress due to this and wasnt able to 
find other creditors. Miss O also complains about ELLs debt collection tactics. She said that 
ELL would phone her to say that shed be visited at her home if she didnt pay her monthly 
payments. This greatly affected her anxiety and caused her to go further into debt in order to 
make the monthly payments. This was clear from her credit score worsening which started 
from the time shed taken out the loan.
ELL said in its final response letter that during the loan sale its checks included: 
- Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account 
- Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip 
- Conducting a credit search with a credit reference agency 
- Carrying out a job check 
As part of its underwriting, ELL said it had used statistical data from the Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) to calculate Miss Os living costs. Miss Os approximate monthly 
expenditure was calculated as £785.18. ELLs affordability calculation at the time showed 
Miss O had a monthly disposable income of £674.09 after paying the monthly loan payment. 
It believed the checks completed were reasonable and proportionate and that the loan was 
sustainable over the term as Miss O had a disposable income. ELL believed Miss O would 
have been able to make the repayments to her loan without undue difficulty over the life of 
the credit agreement. ELL didnt make any comment in its final response letter about       
Miss Os complaint about its debt collection tactics. 
In response to the final response letter, Miss O told ELL that it had failed to take 
accountability, apologise, or offer any compensation for the bullying tactics used in order to 
force her to make payments.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint about unaffordable lending should be 
upheld. He said that ELL had conducted a detailed credit search, obtained bank statements 
and a payslip before lending to Miss O. Hed considered what ELL learned from this 
information and he didnt think there was anything in the information it gathered which meant 
it shouldnt have lent to Miss O. Hed also looked at the information Miss O provided to this 
Service and considered whether ELL wouldve done anything differently had it seen this 
information before lending to Miss O. But he hadnt seen anything which suggested ELL 
wouldve concluded that Miss O wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the loan 
repayments. The adjudicator didnt provide any comments about the second aspect of    
Miss Os complaint.
Miss O then asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss O
and to ELL on 24 December 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, Id needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, which was what Id done here in respect of both aspects of   
Miss Os complaint.
Id also said that I was sorry to hear that Miss O had suffered health and financial difficulties.
Id dealt with the two aspects of Miss Os complaint under separate headings.
Unaffordable lending
Id noted that when ELL lent to Miss O the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Miss O 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss O undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss O. In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
-
ELL did a number of checks before it lent to Miss O. It also appeared to have met with    
Miss O. I could see that it had asked Miss O for details of her employment, monthly income 
and rent and it had also used ONS data to estimate the rest of Miss Os expenditure. ELL 
had asked Miss O to provide a payslip and one calendar months bank statements. ELL had 
also checked Miss Os credit file and had used the results of those checks to calculate    
Miss Os credit commitments.
Miss O was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments of £117 for 18 months. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Os financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Miss Os finances, and I thought that the checks ELL 
did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks wasnt always enough. A lender also needed to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
ELL had checked Miss Os most recent payslip which showed a net monthly income of 
£1,569.40. ELL was also aware that Miss O lived with her parents and didnt pay anything for 
board. She had told ELL the loan was to be used for debt consolidation. I could see from 
ELLs notes that Miss O was to repay her four payday loans from the loan proceeds, and 
that she would have a monthly disposable income of around £674 left after repayment of 
those loans and after her monthly loan repayment to ELL. 
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks before the loan which appeared to have come from more 
than one source. I could see on one report that Miss O had four loan accounts and four card 
accounts with a total balance outstanding of around £8,900. I could also see that she had 
four payday loans that she was settling with the loan proceeds. The checks also showed that 
Miss O had taken out a further four payday loans between February 2018 and May 2018. 
These appeared to have been repaid before the due dates
Id also noted from ELLs credit checks that Miss O had four active credit cards and three 
longer term loans. Miss O appeared to have mostly managed her accounts well except for 
one missed payment on a store card two months before her loan application. There wasnt 
an overdraft balance on Miss Os current account. I could see that she didnt have an 
overdraft arrangement. 
I thought the results of ELLs credit checks ought to have caused it some concerns as they 
suggested that Miss O was struggling to manage her money as shown especially by her recent regular use of payday loans. I could see that ELL did have concerns about the 
payday loans Miss O had taken out and had asked her about the reason for these. Miss O 
explained that shed needed to take out the payday loans following a death in the family. 
Shed needed to get money to help her family out. I thought this explanation was plausible. 
ELL said that Miss Os bank statements showed she had made payments towards her 
payday loans and the loan purpose to help her clear them made her situation more 
comfortable. 
I thought that as ELLs loan was being taken to consolidate Miss Os four existing payday 
loans, that might have broken the cycle for Miss O. Id said that it wasnt uncommon that the 
sole reason for repeated payday loan use stemmed from the need to repay earlier loans.
I could see that ELL had listed and calculated Miss Os monthly credit commitments which 
included those that would remain after her payday loans had been repaid. ELL calculated 
that Miss Os monthly credit commitments would total £338.17, although it seemed to have 
used minimum repayment amounts for Miss Os four card accounts. Whilst this wouldnt 
enable the card accounts to be paid within a reasonable period, I could see that ELLs 
calculations suggested that Miss O would have enough disposable income to make higher 
payments to her card accounts.
I could also see that ELL had obtained Miss Os most recent bank statement for the period   
8 June 2018 to 7 July 2018 for the current account into which her salary was paid. ELL had 
provided this Service with a copy of this. 
Id reviewed the bank statement Miss O provided to ELL. I could see that it made notes on 
the statement regarding certain transactions. It appeared that it would have asked Miss O 
about these when they met. 
The bank statement ELL saw showed no apparent issues such as gambling. The average 
credit balance was £172.59, and the average debit balance was £-1.96. There was one 
returned payment which Miss O explained to ELL was because of the payment being set up 
on the wrong date. I could also see that the account was briefly overdrawn for one day, and 
then again for three days just before Miss O was paid. Otherwise, the bank account 
appeared to have been managed satisfactorily. But I thought it was clear that Miss O was 
spending much more than her income and shed needed to borrow from two payday loan 
providers during that period. However, most of Miss Os spending didnt appear to have 
been spent on essential living costs. And I thought in Miss Os circumstances it might not 
have been unreasonable for ELL to have thought that some of Miss Os discretionary 
expenditure might cease when her finances had been stabilised by taking the consolidation 
loan.
Id noted that Miss O had referred to her credit score. But Id said that the credit score 
provided by a consumers credit reference agency was intended as a guide and could 
change daily. It wasnt likely to be seen by a lender and lenders might have different views of 
what an ideal customer looked like to them, which would be reflected in how they calculated 
a consumers credit score.
After the consolidation of the four accounts Id mentioned above, and on balance, I thought 
that, based on what Miss O had said about her finances, and what ELL could see from her 
bank statement, it was reasonable for the lender to conclude that the loan would be 
affordable for her. 
I appreciated that Miss O had said that she was desperate for credit at the time as she was 
the sole provider at her house. But that wasnt something shed told ELL when she applied 
for the loan. And I didnt think it was something that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have discovered either. I thought that the checks ELL performed were 
proportionate and I thought the lender was entitled to rely here on what Miss O had said 
about her finances, and what she intended to use the loan for. And that information 
suggested that she would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. 
So, for the reasons set out above and subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of Miss Os complaint.
ELLs debt collection tactics
. 
As Id said above, Miss O complained that ELL would phone her to say that shed be visited 
at her home if she did not pay her monthly payments. This caused her to go further
into debt in order to make the monthly payments and this was clear from her credit score 
worsening starting from the period she had taken out the loan. ELL didnt respond to this 
aspect of her complaint in its final response letter. But it had provided this Service with its 
contact notes which Id reviewed.
Id noted that Miss O had started to have payment problems from September 2018 and 
ultimately consulted a debt management agency (DMA) in March 2019 and entered into a 
debt management plan. I could see the contact notes evidenced brief information on calls 
made as well as polite emails and messages between the parties which showed no evidence 
of harassment or threats. There were also no complaints made by Miss O about ELLs 
conduct in the notes. I could see ELL had agreed several reduced payment plans with the 
DMA, the last of which was agreed following a reduction in Miss Os income in June 2020, 
with a review in March 2021. The contact notes didnt show any entries after              
November 2020.
Id appreciated that it would have been unsettling for Miss O to receive phone calls and 
messages about arrears, and I didnt underestimate her strength of feeling. But this Service 
hadnt received any detailed information or correspondence about the debt collection issues 
from Miss O. She had only provided us with brief information about her credit score in five 
separate months between September 2018 and April 2021. I could see from that information 
that shed opened other accounts after ELLs loan. So, I couldnt safely say that any changes 
in Miss Os credit score were directly due to ELLs loan or ELLs debt collection tactics and 
they might well have reflected her wider situation.  
So, for the reasons explained above, and on the balance of probabilities, I couldnt safely 
say that ELL had acted inappropriately here, and I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of    
Miss Os complaint. I appreciated that my decision would be disappointing for Miss O. 
Id said that if, as seemed likely, a balance remained outstanding, and if Miss O was no 
longer in a debt management plan, ELL should attempt to agree a mutually acceptable 
repayment arrangement with Miss O bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions if she was still suffering financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Miss O and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see noreason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman