DRN-2475555
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that TSB Bank plc stopped paying interest on their account.
What happened
Mr B told us that he opened three TSB classic plus accounts in around November 2014, one
in his sole name, and one in the name of him and a close relative, as well as a third he
opened in the sole name of that relative. This complaint deals with the joint account held by
him and Mrs B, although Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of them both, so I will refer
mainly to him in this decision. Separate decisions will be issued for the other complaints he
has brought to our service.
Mr B said that he tried to log on to this account in July 2019 and wasnt able to access online
banking. He had to go into a branch to get this access reinstated. In late September or early
October he logged in, and looked at historic statements. He discovered that no interest had
been paid on the accounts between 1 August 2016 and 2 August 2019, when his internet
banking access was reinstated.
Mr B wanted to know why the account had stopped receiving interest, and why his internet
banking had been blocked. The branch said it had probably happened because Mr B wasnt
logging on. Hes asked TSB to show him that this is part of the terms of the account but he
said it hadnt been able to do that, and the branch staff had accepted that he met the
conditions of the account that were initially given to him. Mr B said hed complained, TSB
had acknowledged his complaint but not replied. He wanted us to help.
TSB said this account stopped receiving interest after July 2016. Interest resumed in August
2019. Interest on these accounts is longer payable.
TSB said that there are conditions for the payment of interest on this account. It
hadnt applied those conditions before 31 January 2015. It said that after this it did so.
Before it applied the conditions, it started to remind customers to register for internet
banking, sign up for paperless correspondence and pay £500 per month. It said that for
customers who didnt do this, the account stopped accruing interest after June 2016, with the
last payment made in July 2016.
TSB has also told us that when it checked the accounts for Mr B and Mrs B, Mrs B wasnt
registered for internet banking, and Mr B had only registered in the second half of 2019. TSB
has suggested that Mr B and Mrs B have changed their registration for online banking.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ive not set out his detailed
reasoning, as I havent adopted it.
Mr B disagreed. He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to
me for decision.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Mr B has provided very detailed observations on this complaint. I have not set out 
above all of those points, but I have considered everything that he has supplied to us.
Mr B said he set up this account. He logged in a few times in 2014-15 to make sure 
that the monthly payment of £500 was going into each account. But he said once he 
was happy that was working, he logged in very little after that. He said he may not 
have logged in after July 2015.
Before I start to look at what happened that resulted in interest being stopped on this
account, and whose fault that may have been, I want to set out that our service does 
expect customers to monitor their own accounts. As background, Mr B and Mrs B 
may wish to be aware that our service will usually expect that people will check their 
accounts regularly, and much more frequently than once every twelve months. So, if 
interest should be paid on an account, and it isnt paid for several years, even if I 
thought the bank was at fault initially, I wouldnt necessarily say that a bank has to 
pay back all the missed interest. I would expect a customer to notice this, and to alert 
the bank to this.
Mr B was managing this account for himself and Mrs B, and he didnt monitor the 
account between August 2016 and August 2019. Interest wasnt paid for three years, 
and Mr B didnt realise this until he found he couldnt log in, during summer 2019.
That means we now have to look back some time to see what happened, to result in 
interest not being paid from July 2016. Mr B has asked us to show him the evidence 
weve received about this. If Mr B would like to see the evidence this service has 
received, he may do so, and well take that forward separately to my decision.
Its worth mentioning at this point that TSB experienced a significant IT failure in 
2018. Although I dont think that failure is the reason why interest stopped being paid 
in this case, I have been conscious in addressing this complaint that TSB might not 
have complete customer records for Mr B and Mrs B for everything that happened 
before 2018. I dont think it would be fair to uphold this case solely because TSB later 
experienced this IT failure, and cant always show the full details of what happened.
Ill now turn to the conditions for receiving interest, whether I think these were met or 
not, and why.
I dont think weve yet established why interest stopped being paid on this account. 
Although we may not be able to tell for sure now what happened in 2016, I think we 
can consider what is most likely to have happened.
I can see that Mr B has concentrated on whether paper statements were issued. Mr 
B and Mrs B say they havent been receiving these. And I think thats likely to be 
right. I dont think that TBS has switched off paperless statements in July 2016 when 
the interest stopped, or started sending paper statements. We now know Mrs B 
wasnt receiving post from TSB during this time, as a result of an unrelated problem. 
But, although I know Mr B moved at some point during the three years that this 
account wasnt getting interest, I dont think its likely that three years of his post has 
gone astray.
But I dont think that is key.TSB says that it thinks Mr B and Mrs B cancelled their internet banking.
I dont think thats what happened in this case either.
I think its worth setting out a little background to these accounts here, before I set 
out what I do think happened.
The documents given to Mr B and Mrs B when this account was opened make clear 
that the payment of interest on these accounts is subject to certain conditions. Those 
conditions are that they must 
- pay into your account at least £500 during the calendar month: and
- have registered for paperless statements and paperless correspondence, if
available.
Mr B says he registered, so thats it. The account should get interest. But this isnt all 
that the document he sent us says. It also goes on to say If you do not meet both of 
the Plus conditions you will not earn interest on the amount in your account.  
Further details on the Plus conditions and what happens if you do not meet the Plus 
criteria can be found in the account literature. So its clear that the document Mr B 
has shown us doesnt contain all the conditions of this account.
TSB has explained to our service that it didnt enforce the account conditions before 
2015. It didnt do anything about customers who werent using their online banking 
before then. But in 2015, it started to issue warnings for customers who werent 
complying with the conditions, as it understood them. In July 2016, it stopped paying 
interest to a number of account holders who werent reading their online 
correspondence. TSB considers that reading those messages is a condition for 
receiving interest on these accounts.
I understand that when TSB first discussed this problem with Mr B in the branch, it 
said it thought this was probably what had gone wrong. Its since said it doesnt think 
that, because it cant see a note on its system from July 2015 saying that it contacted 
Mr B or Mrs B about this. Thats why it thought that Mr B and Mrs B must have 
removed their online banking.
But Mr B has sent us an email he received in July 2015, which does warn him about 
the consequences of not reading his electronic correspondence. That contained the 
following warning about not reading online correspondence 
Personal Current Account and Savings Account
Correspondence
If you do not log onto Internet Banking for three consecutive months we will 
send you an email asking you to look at your correspondence online. We will 
also send you additional reminders by e-mail after six months and then again 
at nine months. If you do not log on for twelve consecutive months we will 
start sending you paper correspondence again.
So I think that what is likely to have happened in this case, is that TBS stopped 
sending Mr B and Mrs B important documents by electronic correspondence, 
because it could see that they werent reading this correspondence. And I think that 
in turn is why they stopped getting interest. Because they had stopped complying 
with the condition of this account that requires them to receive all their 
correspondence online.
Mr B says he was receiving electronic correspondence, because he was getting 
emails. But thats not what TSB means by electronic correspondence. It means the secure messages its sending to him and Mrs B through online banking. TSB cant 
currently send detailed information about their accounts by email, its not yet 
sufficiently secure. It does that through the correspondence they get within online 
banking.
If TSB switched that electronic correspondence off, then that raises two very closely 
linked questions  is it a term of the account, that electronic correspondence has to 
be read to get interest? And is it reasonable for TSB to switch off electronic 
correspondence, if its not being read?
The terms of these accounts dont expressly state that reading online messages is a
condition for receiving interest. But receiving electronic correspondence is.
Mr B and Mrs B agreed to receive their correspondence electronically, including very
important documents like notification of charges. So I think it is reasonable to expect, 
if Mr B and Mrs B agreed to receive all their important communications online, that 
they would realise that they needed to read these communications. I think the strong 
implication, when someone signs up for online communications, is that they are 
going to make arrangements to read those communications, and that they will do so 
reasonably frequently. I think that is so strongly implied, that I dont think it needs to 
be a separate term.
And Ive already mentioned that the correspondence Mr B and Mrs B agreed to 
receive online included very important documents. So I think that it is reasonable for 
TSB to be concerned if Mr B and Mrs B werent reading those letters. Although I 
know TSB cant evidence this now, the email Mr B has sent us, and the evidence Ive 
seen of what happened on this account, makes me think its most likely that TSB did 
switch off electronic correspondence. I think thats reasonable.
Once those electronic documents are switched off, then interest stops. I think thats 
clear from the terms of the account. I think thats likely to be why interest stopped 
being paid in this case.
But some other things have gone wrong with this account too.
I note that this account is supposed to revert to paper statements if no one logs in for 
a year. Both Mr B and Mrs B say they have never received paper statements for this 
account, and I think its unlikely that three years of statements have gone astray. So I 
think that the account didnt revert to paper statements.
I still think that the primary responsibility for keeping an eye on their accounts rests 
with Mr B and Mrs B. But I do note that TSB has failed to send paper statements, 
which wouldve provided a prompt to Mr B and Mrs B to make sure they started to get 
interest payments again. Ill bear that in mind when I think about compensation in this 
case.
I also note that both Mr B and Mrs B found they were blocked from online banking in
summer 2019. I dont know exactly why this happened. TSB said this shouldnt  
happen just because of the length of time since online banking was used. TSB said 
to Mr B that he and Mrs B must have switched off their online banking. I dont think 
thats likely. I think it could possibly be related to TSBs IT failure. But I think what 
TSB has said here has added to the confusion in this case, and delayed a resolution. 
So Ill bear that in mind when I think about compensation in this case.Mr B also said hed never received a response to his complaint. Our investigator said 
that TSB had told us it had recently received correspondence returned from his 
address so it hadnt sent the full response to him. I can see from his reply to our 
service that Mr B didnt accept this. But I can also see that TSB sent us this 
complaint response letter in February of this year. Our service can send that on to Mr 
B, so I have arranged for this to happen now.
Ive explained what I think is likely to have caused interest to stop being paid on this 
account  the paperless correspondence wasnt being read. Ive also explained that I 
think other things have gone wrong  paper statements werent sent, and TSB seems 
to have me to have caused some confusion in the resolution of this complaint.
I dont think TSB has to pay for missed interest. But I do think it should pay £150 in
compensation for this complaint, to make up for not switching on paper statements 
(which is likely to have prompted the resumption of interest) and for confusion in 
resolving this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both TSB and Mr B have sent us further representations, and TSB has now sent our service 
new evidence, but I havent changed my mind on the appropriate award in this case. Ill 
explain why Ive reached that decision.
Mr B commented on the final response letter, which he hadnt received at the time. But he 
said that he thought wed moved beyond that now. He was happy that I had acknowledged
failures on TSB's part, and decided he and Mrs B should be paid some compensation. 
Mr B commented at length on one of his related complaints, Ill deal with those comments 
there. He also said that he didnt think the compensation accounts for the time, effort, 
frustration and stress he and Mrs B had experienced in dealing with this. And he thought 
much of this would not have been necessary if they had received honest and timely 
responses.
I understand Mr Bs frustrations in trying to find out what has gone wrong here. And Im 
seeking to provide answers on that for him and for Mrs B. But as Ive not been able to see 
that TSB did anything wrong when it ended the payment of interest to this account. And I 
dont think I can fairly increase the payment of compensation I have suggested for whats 
gone wrong in this case. 
TSB wanted me to reconsider, and it has offered new evidence in support of part of its 
argument. It said that the outcome appeared to hinge on TSB not having issued paper 
statements to Mr B and Mrs B. And it said that, although it was a term of the account that it 
would revert to paper statements if no one logged in for a year, that had then changed. It 
didnt think that it shouldve sent Mr B and Mrs B paper statements. 
TSB said that it had written to all its customers in September 2015 to detail a change to 
terms and conditions. Its shown us a copy of this letter, which sets out that statements will 
no longer revert to paperless if no one logs into the account for a year. This letter said  We are changing our Paperless terms and conditions so that they will no longer say 
that we will revert your statements back to paper statements if you dont use Internet 
Banking for twelve months. We wont revert your statements back to paper 
statements automatically, but you can ask us to do this at any time if you want to.  
This change is effective from 4 December 2015 
I think that the terms changed on Mr B and Mrs Bs account, and TSB didnt have to start 
sending paper statements if they didnt log in for a year. 
Mr B has placed a great deal of weight on the fact that he and Mrs B didnt receive paper 
statements. And I can see that our investigator mentioned the term of the account which said 
that statements would revert to paper in his view. I understand that it is always difficult for a 
business to decide what to send our service, and filter out whats relevant from whats not. 
But I think it should have been clear by then that evidence saying the term our investigator 
quoted in his view didnt apply when the interest stopped on this account, would be relevant. 
I think that not providing this evidence at the time has prolonged this complaint for Mr B and 
Mrs B.
TSB has also listed the other emails that it sent to Mr B, which it says shouldve prompted 
him to log on, and didnt. It has argued that if Mr B had ignored these, then paper statements 
wouldnt have made any difference either. But, as TSB has shown us it wasnt obliged to 
send those statements, I dont think this argument is relevant here.
TSB has also said that it did start to send paper statements to customers after its IT failure in 
July 2018. But we know that Mrs B already wasnt receiving correspondence at this time, 
and Mr B had moved house without giving TSB his new address. He has told us that in the 
past, the person living at his old address had been good at forwarding mail, but he cant be 
entirely sure that everything was forwarded. And we know that no post was sent to his 
address after February 2019, when post was returned. So, whilst this isnt TSBs fault, Mrs B 
didnt get these statements, and Mr B may not have received them either.
TSB also wanted to point out what it said were inaccuracies in the provisional decision. It 
mentioned a notification sent in 2014, and said that this didnt say interest would stop after 
June 2016, it said interest wouldnt be paid from February 2015. TSB has already sent us 
this 2014 notification, but I dont think its relevant here. Mr B and Mrs B were getting interest 
until July 2016, and an email Mr B sent us, referred to above, mentions no payments after 
that date. 
TSB said my view suggests Mr B had admitted not having logged on after July 2015, so TSB 
thought Mr B didnt monitor the account prior to the August 2016 date Id mentioned. Mr B 
didnt admit this, and I dont think my decision suggests otherwise. Mr B said has said he 
may not have logged on after this. So we dont know when he last logged on. It seems most 
likely that Mr B simply doesnt remember. My decision mentioned August 2016, because 
Mr B and Mrs B had stopped receiving interest on this account then. So it seemed to me 
very likely that Mr B didnt log on from August 2016 onwards, because otherwise he 
wouldve noticed the missing interest.
TSB said Id found that Mr B was blocked from online banking in Summer 2019. But TSB 
said he wasnt blocked. He was unable to log on because no online banking existed in his 
name at that time - it had been cancelled previously. And TSB felt that because there was no 
history of any bank error that would remove the internet banking access of two separate 
parties (either before or after the IT update) it was unreasonable for me to suggest this was 
a TSB error.I know that TSB has maintained that it didnt remove Mr Bs and Mrs Bs internet access, 
either deliberately or accidentally. But the alternative explanation it has put forward just 
doesnt seem to me to be plausible. It seems particularly unlikely that Mr B would delete both 
his and Mrs Bs internet access (especially as he seems to have been well aware that 
banking electronically was required to operate this account) and then complain some years 
later that he and Mrs B were no longer getting interest across three separate accounts. 
Although TSB has firmly resisted this suggestion, I think its simply more likely that 
something has happened, over the years that Mr B and Mrs B didnt access the account, to 
mean that they were no longer able to do so in 2019.
TSB said that its branch gave Mr B the common explanation for customers who found they 
had not been receiving interest on the account for some time. And TSB said I was 
presumably aware that several customers have in the past had their paper correspondence 
setting reverted back to paper which stopped interest being paid. I also note that TSB told 
Mr B, shortly afterwards, that this explanation was wrong. 
TSB said Id suggested it had added confusion and delayed a resolution and this was 
reflected in the redress sum suggested. It didnt agree. It said Mr B re-registered for internet 
banking on 31 July 2019 and benefitted from interest for the full month of July paid at the 
beginning of August, and it issued a final response letter within the 8 weeks required.
But that doesnt mean the issue is resolved. Mr B wanted to know what has gone wrong. 
And our service is now, over a year later, still being sent new evidence on that point by TSB. 
So I do still think that TSB is partly responsible for the length of time its taken for this matter 
to come to a conclusion.
In conclusion, I no longer think that TSB shouldve started sending paper statements to Mr B 
and Mrs B after Mr B hadnt logged on for a year. TSB has shown us that this term of the 
account had changed. 
Ive thought about whether that should change the proposed award in this case. And I dont 
think it does. Ive considered the amount of time and effort that Mr B in particular has had to 
put in to finding out what may have gone wrong here, and I still think a payment of £150 
provides a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr B and Mrs B £150 in compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman