DRN-4179068
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct didnt do enough to protect him 
when he became a victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr W has a number of accounts with first direct  including a joint account  and has a debit 
card and a credit card. 
On 20 December 2022 Mr W called first direct to say that hed noticed a number of 
suspicious transactions when hed looked on his online banking. He said hed been in a pub 
the previous evening and that someone had managed to get hold of his wallet and might 
have taken his mobile phone too and later returned it. He said hed been the victim of fraud.
First direct investigated Mr Ws claim and said that it couldnt do anything about transactions 
which were listed as pending until they went through and that a number of transactions 
hadnt gone through as theyd been reversed. Having investigated fully, first direct said that it 
was going to hold him liable for the transactions that went through. Mr W complained and 
ultimately came to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and said that they didnt think first 
direct had acted unfairly as there was no obvious point of compromise or explanation as to 
how someone else had managed to carry out the transactions. Mr W was unhappy and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Our investigator arranged this. In 
the meantime, our investigator asked Mr W whether or not hed like to include the payments 
from his joint account as this would need the other account holders consent. Mr W didnt say 
either way. So, his complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call that Mr W made the day after the transactions he disputed took place, 
and to subsequent calls too. Im satisfied that the transactions that Mr W reported as 
fraudulent had been made using his genuine card and PIN and that his mobile app had been 
used to complete internal transfers and make payments to an external account. Im also 
satisfied that Mr Ws mobile app was used to view his PIN  after some of the disputed 
transactions had already occurred  and that this couldnt have been done without access 
being given to the decide on which his mobile app was registered to.
Mr W disputed in total £11,960s worth of transactions. Im satisfied, however, that this total 
includes £2,000s worth of those transactions from his joint account. Ive not looked into 
those transactions  as we havent heard from the other account holder. In this decision, in 
other words, Im focussing on the transactions Mr W is disputing from his sole accounts. In 
other words, £9,960s worth of transactions.
First direct says that it investigated Mr Ws claim but didnt offer him a refund as there was 
no good explanation as to how his PIN and mobile app could have been compromised. Mr W 
has since told us that he believes his drink was spiked and he has very little recollection of 
the evening  that he believes he was led away from the pub by a group of people and that 
he remembers coming round in the early hours of the morning down the road from where he 
started. Mr W didnt mention this at the time he reported the disputed transactions to first 
direct, and there were also inconsistencies in what he told first direct.
On balance, I agree with our investigator that in this case there is no obvious point of 
compromise in this case. In the circumstances, I agree that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable 
of first direct to hold Mr W liable for the transactions on his account that he disputed. For that 
reason, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman