DRN-2685213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society. 
Mr and Mrs E were due to travel to Italy for a break between 4 and 8 June 2020. They 
booked their flights, car hire and accommodation separately. 
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised against all but 
essential travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As restrictions on travel remained in place, 
Mr and Mrs Es trip had to be cancelled. They were able to arrange refunds from their flight 
provider, the car hire company and one hotel. But two hotels, which Ill call T and C told Mr 
and Mrs E that they werent able to refund their accommodation costs. Instead, they offered 
Mr and Mrs E credit notes for the full costs of their booking. Cs credit note was valid for 12 
months. Ts credit note was valid until the end of 2020. Mr and Mrs E told us they wouldnt 
be able to travel to make use of the credit notes within the next 12 months. So they made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy for their cancelled accommodation costs. 
UKI turned down the claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As both T and C had offered Mr and Mrs E credit notes for the full 
value of their booking; it said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It also said the policy 
terms specifically excluded losses which could recovered from elsewhere. It told Mr and Mrs 
E that if they were unhappy with their accommodation providers offers; theyd need to take it 
up with them. 
Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. He thought that as 
C had offered them a credit note, their loss for this booking was recoverable. He also 
considered that as the credit note for the booking with C was valid for 12 months, its terms 
werent unfairly restrictive. He noted that the credit note for Mr and Mrs Es booking with T 
was only valid for six months. So he felt that the terms of this credit note could be considered 
restrictive. But he explained that as the value of Mr and Mrs Es booking with T fell below the 
policy excess, there was no settlement for UKI to pay. So overall, he felt it was fair for UKI to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Es claim.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed. They considered that the definition of cost meant that recovery of 
costs meant recovery of the money theyd paid. They said that vouchers had been deemed 
insufficient for airline refunds, so the same should apply to accommodation bookings. They 
said the purpose of travel insurance was to protect policyholders against loss  and nowhere 
in the policy terms does it refer to the insurer providing an alternative holiday rather than the 
recovery of cost. They have no intention of travelling to the same destination and so the 
vouchers are worthless to them. They also stated that theres no opportunity to use the 
vouchers, given the ongoing restrictions on travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not telling UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Es claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Es policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Es contract with 
UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Es holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs E feel that UKI should pay their claim for their unused accommodation costs. But 
the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. One 
of these states that UKI wont pay for recoverable losses. The policy sets out what UKI 
means by recoverable losses. It defines the term as: any costs that you can recover from 
elsewhere. UKI says that as T and C have each offered Mr and Mrs E a credit note for the 
full value of their booking; they havent suffered a financial loss which is covered by the 
policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can 
be recovered from elsewhere. 
Ive next considered the terms of each of the credit notes. Ive seen a copy of an email from 
C. This states that it cant make an exception for Mr and Mrs E and that the full cancellation 
fee would apply. But it did offer a credit on their booking for a change of dates, which was 
valid for 12 months. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs E hadnt 
suffered a financial loss for this booking, because the credit note would cover the full value 
of their pre-booked accommodation. And C offered Mr and Mrs E a year to make use of the 
credit note. I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs E mightve 
been in a position to use the credit note before it expired. And in my view, the terms of the 
credit note arent overly restrictive. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs E might prefer to get a cash refund for their booking with 
C. Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain and I appreciate 
that theyve told us the credit note is worthless to them. But taking everything into account, I 
think it was fair for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs E havent suffered a financial loss for 
their booking with C in the circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim.
The email from T states that it can eventually retain the amount as a deposit for your 
possible future travel reservation, in 2020. So it seems that Mr and Mrs E had around six-
seven months to make use of this credit note before it expired. Its possible that T may have 
agreed to extend the terms of its credit note. But based on a six/seven-month timeframe to 
use the voucher, I think the terms of this credit note could reasonably be considered to be restrictive. 
However, Ive checked the cost of Mr and Mrs Es booking with T. The applicable policy 
excess in Mr and Mrs Es contract is £50 per insured person  a total of £100. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs Es booking with T cost less than £100. So even if I were to find that UKI should 
accept Mr and Mrs Es claim for their booking with T, thered be nothing for it to pay. 
Overall, I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Es position and its open to them to get back in 
touch with C and T if theyre unhappy with the options theyve given them. But overall, I dont 
think UKI has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman