DRN-2136742
The complaint
Mr D says Oakam Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. He says the lending caused him financial 
problems. He thinks Oakam shouldve seen this and not lent to him.   
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Oakam provided to Mr D between May 2015 
and October 2019.
loan 
numberdate takenweekly 
repaymentsamount 
borroweddate repaid
1 13/05/2018 26 £940 15/05/2018
2 16/08/2019 13 £600 05/10/2019
3 05/10/2019 52 £871 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that it was clear on his bank 
statements that he was in financial difficulty. So Oakam shouldve seen this and not lent to 
him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and I have explained why below.
For loan 1, Mr D needed to repay just over £100 a week for 26 weeks. Mr D didnt have any 
problems repaying loan 1 and, as in the table above, there was a significant break before he 
took loan 2. Mr D hadnt fully repaid loan 2 when he took loan 3 but the repayments for loans 
2 and 3 were lower than for loan 1. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr D provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr D said he had a monthly income of around £1,600 for all of the lending. His regular 
monthly outgoings were modest. So it wouldve been reasonable for Oakam to have 
assumed that Mr D could sustainably make the repayments to the loans.
Mr D has provided his bank statements and said that some of the larger cash withdrawals he 
made were evidence that he was in financial difficulty. But whilst I see what he is saying, I 
dont think it is clear enough from the bank statements for me to say that Oakam shouldve 
concluded that Mr D was in financial difficulty. And in any event, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Oakam to have considered Mr Ds finances at this level of detail before 
approving these three loans. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Oakam was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr D mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Oakam to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So, overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Oakam did for loans 1 to 3 were 
proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for these loans was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman