DRN-1972487
The complaint
Mr B complains that Earl Shilton Building Society (ESBS) charged him a fee when he asked 
it to close his account and transfer the funds by faster payment to an account with a different 
provider.
What happened
Mr B had a Regular Monthly Saver Account with ESBS. He wrote to it in November 2019 
and asked it to close his account. He says he asked for the funds to be transferred by faster 
payment to an account with another provider. He says he told ESBS at the time that he was 
aware of the £10 fee, but he thought this was extortionate.
Mr B says ESBS made the transfer and confirmed it had deducted the fee. But he says it 
didnt give him any response to the point hed made about the fee. So, he complained to 
ESBS.
ESBS investigated his complaint. It said hed agreed to its terms and conditions which 
included the savings administration fees. The fee had been correctly applied in line with the 
terms and conditions. ESBS also said the fee reflected the reasonable time, effort and 
immediacy required to process the faster payment. It also said it incurred fees from its own 
clearing bank when it processed a faster payment.
Mr B didnt accept this and so he complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He thought ESBS hadnt done anything wrong when it applied the fee. He said 
our services role wasnt to tell ESBS what it should charge. He said we considered whether 
the charge was fair. In this case he thought ESBS had followed its own processes and 
applied the fee in line with its savings administration fees. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B applied for this account by completing an application form hed 
downloaded from ESBSs website. The application form states
 For your own benefit and protection you should read carefully the information and 
terms and conditions contained in this application form including the declaration 
below, before signing this form. If you do not understand any point please ask for 
further information.
The declaration, which Mr B accepted, states:
I agree to the Regular Monthly Saver terms and conditions leaflet.
The Regular Monthly Saver leaflet should be read in conjunction with the Retail Savings 
Account leaflet. That leaflet sets out the general terms and conditions that apply. I can see 
some references in these terms and conditions to making electronic payments out of the 
savings accounts. And, there is a clause which says that ESBS can apply charges. It refers 
to the Administration Fees leaflet which is available on its website.
So, having looked at the documents, Im satisfied there was provision, in the terms and 
conditions, to charge a fee where a customer wanted to make an electronic transfer of 
money from a savings account. Im also satisfied the fees were publicly available on ESBSs 
website.
Mr B thinks the fee is excessive. In terms of the amount of the charge and whether ESBS is 
more generally entitled to charge this  as our investigator has explained, this isnt a matter 
for this service to decide. But I can consider whether, in the circumstances that existed when 
Mr B asked for the electronic transfer to be made from his account, he was treated fairly and 
reasonably. When considering that I have taken into account the relevant laws, regulations 
and circumstances of this case.
The fee in this case related to Mr Bs request for an electronic transfer of money out of his 
account. I can see that Mr B opened the account by making a cheque payment to ESBS. He 
was issued with a passbook to operate the account and online banking services were not 
available with the account. ESBS has confirmed that if he had requested a cheque when he 
closed the account there wouldnt have been any charge. But there was an option, for 
customers to ask for an electronic transfer of funds.
The Administration Fees leaflet sets out different types of electronic transfer and the 
corresponding fees for each. I can see that the fee for a same day transfer of funds was 
higher than the fee for a next day transfer of funds. So, Mr B had a choice as to how he was 
paid the funds. Im also satisfied that Mr B was aware of the various options and fees when 
he asked for the account to be closed. 
I say this because of what Mr B said when he wrote to ESBS asking it to close his account. 
His letter said:
I understand for next day faster payment the charge is £10. I think this is 
extortionate but this is the only method as I do not want to risk the cheque getting 
lost.
So, Mr B was fully aware of the fee that would be charged. He was also aware he couldve 
asked for a cheque to be sent to him, at no charge. He didnt choose that option because he 
says he didnt want to take the risk that it would get lost. He did protest about the amount of 
the charge for a next day transfer. But, despite that his instruction was very clear. 
Having considered everything here, I think Mr B decided it was more acceptable to pay the 
fee for the next day electronic transfer rather than take a risk that the cheque would get lost. 
That was his choice. And, I dont think ESBS did anything wrong when it went ahead and 
complied with his instruction.
Ive also considered the Payment Services Regulations which apply to electronic payments 
of this kind. These require ESBS to provide or make available certain information such as 
the amount of the charges to Mr B before he makes the transfer and after the payment 
request is received.
As Ive said above Mr B was aware of the amount of the charge for the service he requested. 
He detailed this in his letter to ESBS. I can also see that ESBS sent information, about the payment and the charge, after it received the payment request. So, Im satisfied ESBS acted 
fairly and reasonably when it made the next day electronic transfer of the money and applied 
its published fee.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Earl Shilton Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman