The complaint
Mr I says Gain Credit LLC trading at the time as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him 
and didn't properly check his financial circumstances.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Lending Stream provided to Mr I between May 2019 and 
September 2019. Mr Is borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 12/05/2019 28/06/2019 6 £200.00 £60.42
2 01/09/2019 Outstanding 6 £600.00 £181.28
Our adjudicator didn't think this matter should be upheld. He said that given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Is circumstances and his history with this lender, he 
didn't think it would be proportionate for Lending Stream to have started to ask for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. He thought there 
wasn't anything in the information Lending Stream should have been aware of which meant 
it would have been proportionate to start verifying what Mr I was saying. And he finally said 
that he didn't think the number of loans taken out, the amounts they were for and the period 
over which Mr I was borrowing meant his loan history should have shown that Mr I was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Mr I disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for his matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. So,  he complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1972492the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
As I explained above, Lending Stream needed to make proportionate checks. When Mr I 
took out loan 1 he declared his income was £1,700, and he reported his expenses as £390. 
Lending Stream adjusted Mr Is income to £1,545.45 and his expenses to £415. It also 
added in an amount for credit specific expenses to £429 - this left Mr I with a disposable 
income of £641.22 after repayment of his loan. 
There was no sign of accounts in default, no delinquent accounts and no active accounts. I 
think Lending Streams checks were proportionate and I dont think there was anything in the 
information Lending Stream received to say Mr I was in financial difficulty or which would 
have led it to verify the information it received. And considering the amount he wanted to 
borrow and the amount of the repayment I cant say it was unfair to lend loan 1.For loan 2, this was still early in the lending relationship. This time Mr I told Lending Stream 
he had an income of £6,400. Clearly Lending Stream might have thought that this was 
overstated taking in to account Mr Is declared income received a few months earlier. And I 
think this high wage compared to his declared income under four months earlier might have 
alerted Lending Stream to at least verify Mr Is income. Lending Stream has said if 
necessary, it would have confirmed the monthly income with an independent company to 
make sure it was right. But I cant see it did this. 
I have looked at the checks it carried out. I can see it adjusted down Mr Is income by 
£581.82. That gave Mr I an income of £5,818.18. But I still think that Lending Stream needed 
to verify what Mr Is income actually was. 
Mr I has provided a copy of his payslip which shows his net monthly pay as around £1,900 
but his headline monthly income was just over £1,500. So the figures (even with the 
adjustment) that Lending Stream based its checks on were at odds with the true figure for 
Mr Is wages. Mr I told Lending Stream that his outgoings were £725 for normal expenses 
and a further £275 for credit specific expenses. It looks like Lending Stream used a figure of 
£1188 for Mr Is expenses. He had no accounts in default, no active accounts and no 
delinquent accounts according to the result of Lending Streams credit checks.
To be fair to Mr I, I have used the figures for income based on the wage slips. I think Lending 
Stream should have at least asked to see a copy of this. Based on the figures for his wages 
and the expenses and taking into account the loan repayment I still think Lending Stream 
would likely have lent to Mr I and I dont think this loan would have appeared unaffordable 
even if he had provided his actual wage.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I dont uphold this complaint. In relation to any outstanding 
balance I remind Lending Stream to treat Mr I fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman