DRN-2716681
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society have caused him distress and
inconvenience from a letter they sent him. 
What happened
Mr S received a letter from Nationwide Building Society thanking him for getting in touch with
them recently. The letter also included a new telephone banking pass number which would
enable him to access his account faster on the telephone.
Mr S was panicked by this and thought there may have been fraud committed on his account
or an error as he hadnt contacted Nationwide and requested a new pass number.
Mr S complained to Nationwide who explained that another customer had accidently input
Mr Ss pass number instead of their own pass number and assured Mr S that none of his
details had been given out. They explained the re-issuing of a new pass number was a
security measure. While Nationwide expressed regret for Mr S feeling he had poor service,
they didnt uphold his complaint as they didnt think they acted incorrectly.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service as he said he had suffered distress and
inconvenience from being sent the letter with the new pass code. He thought there may be
fraudulent activity and was concerned about data issues. He wanted compensation for
distress and inconvenience. Mr S also wanted his postage to be reimbursed as he felt he
shouldnt need to write Nationwide a letter to find out how he received a new pass number.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. The investigator said that Nationwide had
not made an error as this was their automated process when an incorrect pass number is
entered by a customer.
Mr S told our investigator that they hadnt considered his postage costs in his view. Our
investigator asked Nationwide if they would reimburse Mr Ss postage costs. Nationwide said
there were alternative methods Mr S could have contacted them at no cost such as
freephone numbers or using an online chat, so they were not prepared to reimburse his
postage costs.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He highlighted concerns he
wanted considering such as ensuring his complaint is looked at fair and reasonably,
methods available to contact Nationwide and the same issue could happen again in the
future.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S received a letter which started with thank you for getting in touch with us recently and
received a new pass number. As Mr S had not been in touch with Nationwide I can see why
this would have caused him distress. He says he was worried about fraud and whether his
data had been compromised and I think that is a natural and understandable reaction to
receiving a letter like this.
While I understand Nationwide have an automated process in these situations which is a
preventive measure for security. I have to consider whether Nationwide have acted fairly and
reasonably here considering Mr Ss individual circumstances. Here, while I dont doubt that
Nationwide was following its process, ultimately thats led to an unfair outcome for Mr S. Mr
S hadnt got in touch with Nationwide but they told him he had. That wouldve been worrying
and confusing for him.
That meant that Mr S had to contact Nationwide himself to clarify what had happened here. I
think that couldve been avoided if Nationwide had been more proactive in contacting him, or
sent him a letter that more accurately told him what happened. He wasnt responsible for his
pass number changing as he hadnt been in contact with Nationwide. So he wanted to find
out why his pass number had changed and why Nationwide said hed been in contact when
he hadnt. So I can understand why Mr S said writing to Nationwide inconvenienced him.
In relation to security issues Im satisfied that Nationwide havent given any of Mr Ss details
to another customer. I say this as the caller who input the incorrect pass number identified
themselves as a different caller to Mr S. The security questions the other caller would need
to answer to pass security would not be the same as if Mr S contacted Nationwide. But as a
precaution Nationwide issued a new pass number to Mr S.
I know Mr S has concerns that this could happen again. When considering this this issue I
can only look at the merits of Mr Ss individual complaint, so I cant comment on things which
may or may not happen in the future. Its a reality that things like this will happen from time to
time. While we cant tell Nationwide to change its systems or processes here, I have
considered what happened in the individual circumstances here.
Regarding postage, Mr S is entitled to contact Nationwide by any method of communication
he chooses and that they offer. So Im not persuaded that, while there may be more cost
effective alternative ways to contact Nationwide, he should have used a different method to
contact them. Ultimately, Mr S communicated in writing in response to a letter which caused
him some understandable concern. I dont think thats unreasonable and, as Ive said, I dont
think he wouldve had to do this if Nationwide had been clearer in their communication with
him around this.
Nationwide did apologise for Mr S if he felt he had poor customer service but didnt
recognise the impact the letter they sent had on Mr S. In considering the impact caused to
Mr S Ive taken into account that he has suffered distress and inconvenience. He received a
letter which related to security measures with no context as to why the letter was sent. He
didnt request a new pass number and this would have been very distressing as he thought
there may have been fraud on his account. Then he had the inconvenience to contact
Nationwide.
Mr S has asked for his postage costs to be reimbursed and I think this is a fair request. I say
that as the original correspondence that Nationwide sent him shouldve given context to why
he was receiving a new pass number. If context was given then I believe this wouldve
prevented Mr S writing to Nationwide to find out why this happened.
So I think Nationwide should pay Mr S £75. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount
to compensate Mr S for the impact the letter and its contents had on him as this would have
caused him distress and inconvenience for the reasons Ive already mentioned. If Mr S can
provide Nationwide evidence of his postage costs then Nationwide should reimburse this inaddition to the £75 I intend to award.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr S had no further comments to add, but Nationwide responded with further 
comments. In summary they said the security of Mr Ss accounts were never at risk, it 
wouldnt be feasible to contact a customer when something of this nature occurred due to 
the number of pass number communications sent out each month, if Mr S was concerned 
about the cost of postage then he shouldve used a different method which was free of 
charge.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought in great detail about what Nationwide has said in response to my provisional 
decision. But having thought about their comments and after reviewing all of the evidence 
here again, I still think that the fair outcome here is the one I suggested in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
As mentioned in my provisional decision Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt compromise Mr 
Ss security and his accounts were never at risk. While I understand that Nationwide sends a 
substantial number of communications in relation to pass numbers, I would expect the 
majority of these are to members who have contacted Nationwide themselves as opposed to 
Mr Ss individual circumstances here.
Its not for me to criticise Nationwides systems or processes  ultimately theyre entitled to 
decide on these as a business. But, I have to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint. In doing so, there will be times that a strict application of a 
process, or an established system working as it should, will result in an unfair outcome for a 
customer in the individual circumstances of a dispute. I remain of the opinion that this is 
whats happened here for the reasons Ive already given.
Ive thought again about what Nationwide has said about if Mr S was concerned about 
postage costs then he couldve used a free way of contacting them. But Im not persuaded 
by this. Its reasonable that as Mr S received a letter which caused him some 
understandable concern that hes used the same method of communication to contact 
Nationwide. Its Mr Ss prerogative to use any of the methods Nationwide make available to 
their members to communicate with them. I dont think thats unreasonable and, as Ive said, 
I dont think he wouldve had to do this if Nationwide had been clearer in their communication 
with him around this.
In summary, Nationwides response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and my 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Nationwide will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr S £75 which I think is fair in the circumstances. This reflects the 
impact on Mr S for receiving a letter regarding his pass number changing after he contacted 
them, which he didnt. I also think Nationwide should pay Mr Ss postage costs if he can 
provide them proof of postage. This will put him in the position he wouldve been in before 
Nationwide changed his pass number.
Mr S asked for any compensation to be paid directly to him by cheque as he said he doesnt have an account with Nationwide anymore, which Im satisfied is a fair request.   
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr S £75. If Mr S can provide proof of his postage 
costs then Nationwide Building Society should pay these too.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman