DRN-3540540
The complaint
Mr A complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Haven, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Haven responsible 
for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr A used a broker to get a motor insurance policy with Haven for the year from June 2021. 
The cost for the year was going to be over £4,000.00.
Through the broker, Haven asked for documents from Mr A, but it didnt receive all of them. 
In about November 2021, Haven cancelled the policy and kept what Mr A had paid. 
Mr A complained to the broker that it hadnt communicated clearly enough. He brought that 
complaint to us. Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator recommended that the broker should remove any record of the policy being 
cancelled and pay Mr A £100.00 compensation.
Though us, Mr A complained to Haven that it hadnt made any refund of premium. By a final 
response dated late March 2022, Haven turned down that complaint. Mr A asked us to 
investigate further.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Haven applied the policy terms and conditions correctly. The investigator didnt think Haven 
had treated Mr A unfairly when doing so.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that the investigator hasnt made a fair decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Havens policy terms included the following:
Section L - Cancelling your policy
This section applies to policies cancelled by you or us
a) If at the time of cancellation, you or a third party has made a claim or reported an 
incident that may give rise to a claim under this insurance policy. We will retain the 
whole premium whilst the claim is in the process of being settled. The claim will be 
settled for the purpose of this section when a final settlement is made or when we 
receive notification that a claim by you or a third party will not be pursued further.
b) If the claim is settled as non-fault, and subject to payment of any excess. We will 
refund a part of the premium according to the number of days remaining before the 
end of the period of insurance from the date cancellation. If settled as a fault claim 
and we have incurred costs as a result then no refund of premium will be given and 
the full annual premium will be due.
Ive added the underlining. The underlined words provided that if Haven settled Mr As claim 
as a fault claim and it had incurred costs, Haven would make no refund after cancellation 
and the full yearly premium would be due. 
Thats not an unusual term and I dont find it unfair. On a claim (particularly a total loss claim 
such as a theft), the policyholder has used the policy and its not unfair that he should pay 
the full premium for the year.
Havens final response said that it had paid Mr A about £7,700.00 on a theft claim. He hasnt 
denied that. So I find that Haven had settled his theft claim and incurred costs. 
Its common for an insurer that has made such an outlay to treat the claim as a fault claim 
against its policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers its outlay in full. In the case of a 
theft, the insurer usually has no way of recovering its outlay from the thief.
So I dont find that Haven treated Mr A unfairly by saying that  as it had settled a fault claim 
 it wouldnt make any refund of premium following the cancellation.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to make any refund or to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman