DRN-2697416
The complaint
Mr O complains that his car insurer, CIS General Insurance Limited, unreasonably delayed 
his claim for a replacement windscreen for three weeks and its staff were rude to him.
What happened
Mr Os windscreen cracked on 19 December 2019. He contacted CISs approved 
windscreen repairer on 20 December and was offered a repair appointment for 24 
December, which he declined. Another appointment was offered for 11 January 2020 and Mr 
O complained about the delay. 
CIS said Mr Os car was still safe to drive and so his claim wasnt an emergency and three 
weeks was needed over the Christmas period to arrange the repair. CIS pointed out theres 
a term of the policy that allows the policyholder to choose his own repairer - but it will only 
pay £75 towards this with the extra cost met by the policyholder.
Mr O said he was making arrangements for the repair when CIS cancelled his policy, saying 
this was due to a breakdown in their relationship. He thought this was because he is 
disabled. Mr O said he called CIS to complain but was cut off and couldnt finish what he 
was saying. Mr O had his windscreen repaired on 14 January 2020.
CIS said during contact with both CIS and its windscreen repairers Mr O made it difficult to 
assist him because he wouldnt authenticate himself or co-operate, causing delays. CIS said 
its staff had handled calls with Mr O correctly and hadnt been rude. CIS said Mr O was also 
unhappy with the excess. It said the excess was confirmed in Mr Os renewal invitation in 
2019. CIS said to resolve the issue, it would allow Mr O to use a non-approved repairer and 
it would pay the full cost, less the excess, rather than the £150 maximum under the policy. 
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She said Mr O was offered an appointment in four days which was 
reasonable. She said the terms of the policy allowed CIS to charge an excess for the repair 
and it had been correctly applied. She said CIS had acted fairly towards Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Os frustration at the delay in repairing his windscreen. But part of this 
delay was due to his refusal of the first appointment offered. This would have meant the 
repair could have been completed before the Christmas holiday period contributed towards 
the delay.
Part of the delay was due to Mr Os failure to make an appointment with CISs approved 
repairer because he was unwilling to complete identification procedures. And so, I think Mr O 
is responsible for some of the delays in the repair.
Mr O described the damage to his windscreen as being on the passenger side. A member of 
staff of the windscreen company assured Mr O that he could continue to use his car safely 
and described the safety mechanism of the glass. It seems clear to me that the crack on Mr 
Os windscreen was not an emergency and I think he could have accepted the reassurance 
from the staff about its safety.
I have considered Mr Os complaint about the rudeness of the staff he spoke to. On one 
occasion CISs complaint handler terminated an angry call from Mr O. CISs complaint 
handler wrote to Mr O and explained why he had ended their call and gave him options to 
get his windscreen fixed, including use of CISs appointed windscreen repairer or using a 
non-approved repairer where CIS would pay the full cost less the excess.
I have listened to the recording of three calls between Mr O and CISs windscreen repairers. 
I think the complaint handler and other staff tried to help Mr O. I have heard Mr Os 
reluctance and sometimes his refusal to comply with basic verification procedures. He 
accused staff of bullying and lying to him. Despite considerable pressure from Mr O, I 
havent heard any rudeness from the staff and no evidence of bullying or lying.
From what I have seen of the service CIS and its agents provided to Mr O I think he was 
treated fairly and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman