DRN-3094812
The complaint
A limited liability partnership, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc 
have unfairly declined its claim for business interruption insurance. 
Mr C, who is one of the partners of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf. For ease of 
reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr C, where I mean the partnership, D. 
Where I refer to Allianz, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr C holds a business insurance policy which 
is provided by Allianz. In early 2020 he made a claim. 
D run a pub and around this time there was widespread flooding local to their premises 
(although fortunately the pub itself wasnt flooded). Mr C wanted to claim on the business 
interruption section of his policy for revenue lost as a result of the flooding. He says the 
flooding resulted in a significant downturn in business as many roads were closed, allowing 
only very limited access to the pub. He also says that there were occasions when the pubs 
toilets were impacted by the flooding in the area. 
Allianz rejected the claim. In summary, they said the policy couldnt assist in these 
circumstances. They also said that, in relation to the issue with the toilets, Mr C needed to 
provide further information to evidence his claim. Mr C complained and when Allianz 
maintained their position, he referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr 
C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but my role requires that I consider if Allianz acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining the claim. I think they did, and Ill explain why. 
The Business Interruption section of Mr Cs policy says: The insurer will pay the Insured for 
Business Interruption by any of the Events operative under this Policy and not otherwise 
excluded occurring during the Period of Insurance. 
The term Business Interruption is given a specific definition of Loss resulting from 
interruption of or interference with the Business carried on by the Insured at the Premises in 
consequence of an Event to Property. Event is defined as Damage to Property used by 
the Insured at the Premises for the purpose of the business.
One of the Events referred to is Flood. But in line with the above definition there needs to 
have been damage to property as a result of the flood. It is common for business interruption 
policies to only cover business interruption which follows damage to insured property (as is 
the case here). 
Further to this, Mr Cs policy also contains a material damage proviso, which means cover 
will only be provided where both damage has occurred and an insurer has accepted liability 
for putting it right.
Specifically, the policy says that cover is only available under the business interruption 
section of the policy Provided that at the time of any Event there is an insurance in force 
covering the interest of the insured in the property at the premises against such an event 
and that:
1. Payment has been made or liability has been admitted for payment, or
2. Payment would have been made or liability would have been admitted for payment 
but for the operation of a proviso in such insurance excluding liability for claims below 
a specified amount.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Cs premises and property werent damaged by the flood (except for 
potentially the toilet issue that Ill come to below). As such, I dont think Allianz were acting 
unfairly when saying that the business interruption section doesnt respond in these 
circumstances. There was no damage to property and therefore no insured event. 
Ive also considered an extension mentioned in the policy which refers to any claim resulting 
from interruption or interference with the business in consequence of 
a) Damage at any situation or to any property shown below, or
b) Any of the under-noted contingencies.
One of the listed situations is denial of access which says Property in the immediate 
vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the premises, 
whether the premises or property in the premises is damaged or not subject to a limit 
However, this term still requires property to have been damaged, which resulted in a denial 
of access. Property is defined in the policy as Buildings, Contents, Landlords Fixtures, 
Tenants Improvements, Stock and other items shown and/or described in the Schedule.
Again, I dont think this assists Mr Cs claim. The issue wasnt with damage to any property 
(as defined), leading to a denial of access. It was with flooded roads in the locality which 
impacted the ease with which his premises could be accessed.
Allianz said that if Mr C could provide further evidence (beyond posts on social media), they 
would consider further the claim in relation to the toilets being blocked, as a result of which 
he was unable to trade. I dont think this is unreasonable. It is for the insured to evidence 
that they have a valid claim under the policy, and I think its reasonable for Allianz to request 
more evidence to support this particular claim. 
Overall, the question isnt whether the flooding in the area impacted Ds trading  this isnt in 
dispute. Rather, its whether, in these circumstances, this is something that the policy 
provides cover for. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Allianz are acting outside 
the policy terms or unfairly when concluding that the policy didnt cover D in these 
circumstances. I also think its fair that Allianz have said they will give further consideration to Ds claim about lost trade as a result of the pub having to close due to blocked toilets if Mr 
C provides further evidence to support it. 
For these reasons, Im not going to direct Allianz to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman