DRN-4214715
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly 
provided him with an overdraft when he had debt elsewhere and didnt have the mental 
capacity to understand the implications of having an overdraft.
What happened
Mr M suffers from a number of mental health conditions. Mr M says that between 2006 and 
2010 he was staying in a secure psychiatric hospital and that by November 2011 hed 
reduced the time spent at the hospital and increased the time spent at a hostel. Mr M has 
told us that at this time his mother held a general power of attorney to assist him with his 
financial affairs but that most decisions are made independently with support from friends 
and family.
Mr M says in April 2010 on a day when he was allowed out of the hospital to visit a park he 
visited a branch of Halifax and opened a bank account with an overdraft facility. Mr M says 
that he told staff that he was detained under the Mental Health Act and gave them his 
hospital address at the time. Mr M says he didnt apply for an overdraft on the account, but 
that he was offered one.
Halifax internal records show that it was made aware of Mr Ms mental health conditions and 
diagnosis in 2019 some years later. Its records show the account was opened in April 2010 
and that Mr M applied and was approved for an overdraft of £250 in October 2010, £1,000 in 
January 2011 and £1,600 in March 2012. All further overdraft applications were declined.  Mr 
Ms account eventually went into an unauthorised state and was transferred to Halifaxs 
collections team in September 2018 and closed to recoveries in December 2019.  
In a supporting statement Mr Ms sister agrees that the overdraft shouldnt have been 
approved and that Mr M had a tendency to make decisions that others considered unwise. 
She says Mr M has been good at hiding the extent of his financial problems from others as 
he didnt want to appear weak or incapable and that although Mr Ms account may look well 
managed, since Mr M was discharged from hospital he has ignored priority bills and has 
accrued debts and charges elsewhere. 
Mr Ms sister now holds a lasting power of attorney for Mr M in relation for his care and 
welfare when he loses capacity but a deputyship application in relation to Mr Ms finances 
failed as it was thought that when well Mr M had capacity in most decisions and should be 
given support to be as independent as possible.
Mr M complained to Halifax about the overdraft lending. He says he lacked the mental 
capacity to have an overdraft and understand the implications of it and that the overdraft was 
unaffordable.
Halifax says it had no record of Mr Ms personal difficulties prior to May 2019. Halifax didnt 
think it could look at the overdraft lending aspect of Mr Ms complaint as it thought Mr M had 
raised the complaint too late and was out of time.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that there 
was no evidence Halifax was made aware of Mr Ms mental health diagnosis prior to being 
granted the overdraft and limit increases. And that the guidance in place at the time for 
banks was to presume the customer had mental capacity. And based on the information 
Halifax had about Mr Ms finances and how he managed his account with it, they thought the 
overdraft was affordable and that Halifax hadnt acted unfairly in granting it.
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Our investigator has already given a detailed account of the background in their 
view and I dont see any merit in repeating that here. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules 
allow me to do that. 
And the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that Halifax irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft 
when he didnt have the mental capacity to understand the implications of the lending and 
that the overdraft wasnt affordable for him.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I sympathise with Mr M in that he clearly has had some struggles with his mental health over 
the years which has no doubt impacted him and his ability to manage his affairs. However, 
from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied and I think its likely that Mr M understood what he 
was doing when he opened the bank account with Halifax. I say this as I think some level of 
pre-meditation wouldve been involved when Mr M decided to use his day out to open a bank 
account  rather than visit the park as he has told us he was meant to do. And I dont think 
Mr M wouldve been let out of the hospital by himself if it wasnt deemed he had sufficient 
mental capacity. 
It is also noteworthy that prior to this Mr M has told us hed had loans and credit cards 
granted to him by other providers and from the correspondence Ive seen, his surname and 
address are different to what Halifax has.
So Im not persuaded that Halifax ought to have questioned Mr Ms capacity to operate a 
bank account as it has no record of Mr Ms diagnosis until 2019 and the guidance in place to 
lenders at the time was for it to presume capacity. Indeed, in Mr Ms own words he didnt 
make Halifax aware of his condition initially as he was ashamed about his diagnosis. And in 
any case suffering from a mental health condition doesnt mean that one cant have a bank 
account or for that matter take out any form of credit. 
So I dont think Halifax made an error in opening a bank account for Mr M. And I also dont 
think based on what Ive seen that Halifax irresponsibly provided Mr M with an overdraft.
The guidance in place at the time for assessing affordability was not prescriptive as to the 
types of checks to be carried out but banks could look at for example evidence of income 
and expenditure, how a customers managed their account with it or a customers credit score. So in assessing Mr Ms overdraft applications we would have expected Halifax to 
consider the information it had on Mr M available to it. 
In Mr Ms case Halifax have said and Mr Ms statements show that leading up to the first 
overdraft application (around six months after opening the account) that Mr M was managing 
his account well and had credited over £4,500 to his account. And as there were no 
indications of financial difficulty the overdraft of £250 was granted.
Halifaxs address history for Mr M shows him as living at a residential address when his 
overdraft limit was increased around three months later in January 2011 to £1,000. Prior to 
this increase Mr M had only briefly used the overdraft and was maintaining all monthly direct 
debits and receiving healthy credits to the account of around £1,000 a month. And based on 
this information Halifax deemed the new limit affordable.
The final limit increase was around a year later when Mr Ms limit was increased to £1,600. 
Mr Ms statements showed that even though he was using his overdraft more, he continued 
to receive healthy credits into the account, stayed within his limit, managed to maintain a 
credit balance in the months leading up to the limit increase and there was no indication he 
was relying on the overdraft to live or that he was in financial difficulty. Indeed, Mr Ms sister 
has indicated that Mr M effectively made his account look like it was well managed as he 
understood this would mean it would be more likely that Halifax would increase his overdraft 
limit. 
I accept that Mr Ws financial position outside of his banking relationship with Halifax may 
well have been worse than any information he disclosed to it and it is possible that further 
checks might have told Halifax this. But Halifax was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
affordability assessment it carried out and the information Mr W provided it. And even if it 
had done further checks  from what Ive seen both Mr Ms surname and address differ on 
correspondence from other creditors to what Halifax has, so Im not sure further checks 
wouldve provided any further useful information on Mr Ms financial affairs.  
So based on the information Halifax had, I dont think it was irresponsible in its lending 
decisions or treated Mr M unfairly when it granted him an overdraft and increased his limit. 
He was receiving healthy credits into the account, staying within his limit and there was 
nothing from the transactions on the account that wouldve been cause for concern prior to 
the overdraft being granted.
And so it follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint as I dont think Halifax treated Mr M 
unfairly by opening an account for Mr M or by granting an overdraft for him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman