DRN-1739676
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way that his home insurance claim for water damage was handled 
by U K Insurance Limited.
 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr M suffered an escape of water at his home which caused considerable 
damage.  He and his wife were unable to stay in the property so moved out initially to a 
hotel. Mr M appointed loss assessors to act for him. They in turn appointed surveyors to 
project manage the repairs. Costs were agreed for strip out and drying of the property which 
then took place. At a meeting at the property in June 2018, the schedule of works was 
agreed. It was decided that the works would be put out to tender. 
In the meantime UKI had advised that Mr M and his wife would have to move to short term 
let accommodation (AA). Mr M had an agent assess his property for its letting value who 
advised that this was £2,500 per month. He wanted a comparable property as set out in his 
policy terms. However UKI didnt agree his figure for letting purposes. It suggested a figure 
of £1,800 per month, and the parties agreed on a figure of up to £2,000 per month. Mr M 
researched properties in the area and presented UKI with a list of properties, out of which it 
said one was appropriate. It duly arranged to pay the deposit and Mr and Mrs M moved in. 
However it was a 2 bedroomed flat as opposed to the 4 bedroomed house he owned, and he 
believed UKI had unreasonably forced him to live in alternative accommodation not 
comparable to his own.
The tenders were received and reviewed in July 2018. Mr Ms surveyor recommended 
acceptance of the lowest tender but Mr M wasnt happy with this. He decided to appoint his 
own quantity surveyor to review the cost. Following this, in October 2018 UKI agreed that the 
works could proceed with the second lowest price tender. It further proposed that a cash 
settlement would be paid to Mr M. A figure was agreed and stage payments were released 
to Mr M. This included an overall figure for the alternative accommodation (AA) on the basis 
that the works would be completed by April 2019.
Mr M advised that the works werent completed by April 2019 and in fact took until July 2019. 
He demanded a further payment for extension of the AA. UKI said it had made a full 
payment and had allowed a reasonable time for the works to complete. Mr M said he was 
forced to move out and put his contents in storage until the property was ready.
Mr M also negotiated with UKI over the value of his contents. He was unhappy that for some 
of the items UKI reduced the value of what it was prepared to pay without any clear reason 
why.
Mr M complained of the delays in reaching a settlement, delays in paying hotel bills and 
forcing him to stay in a lower value accommodation than he was entitled to. He believes he 
should receive the difference between what UKI paid and what he believes he was entitled 
to. He also contended that he should have received a higher payment for some of his items, 
and that he hadnt received all his agreed payments. UKI admitted that its service fell below 
the required standard and issued a goodwill payment of £250 by way of compensation. It 
confirmed it wouldnt be making any further payments.
On referral to this service, our investigator thought that UKI had acted reasonably in respect 
of the contents payments and the AA had been agreed upon. He said there were delays in 
the matter and in processing payments. He thought that UKI should have considered 
whether the property was still uninhabitable when the payments ran out. He proposed that it 
pay the cost of storage of Mr Ms contents, on proof of the same. He further proposed that it 
pay a total of £400 compensation, an increase of £150.
UKI pointed out that having consulted with its loss adjuster it believed Mr M only had 
redecoration to do, so the property wasnt uninhabitable. 
Mr M was unhappy and pointed out that as UKI had paid £250 less rent per month than it 
had agreed to pay, he should at least receive that money back in satisfaction of UKIs 
obligations. He said that the compensation didnt fully take account of the stress and 
inconvenience and the damage to their health of having to stay so long out of their home in 
unsuitable accommodation.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays
Mr M says he suffered continued delays in processing the claim in a timely and professional 
manner. This was over an extended period of over 18 months causing Mr and Mrs M 
substantial inconvenience, stress and ill health. 
There are factors I have to take into account. Firstly Mr M appointed three firms of loss 
assessors, one after the other. He was disappointed with the surveyors appointed by the 
loss assessors to project manage the claim, to the extent that he needed to bring in further 
surveyors after the tendering exercise, as the lowest price tender was very much lower than 
the other two. To an extent he was vindicated as UKI agreed to accept the second lowest 
price tender and paid some of the new surveyors costs. But the involvement of the loss 
assessors meant that the tendering exercise couldnt get under way until May 2018. And the 
acceptance of the tenders, which were available by July led to a further delay by the new 
surveyor being brought in. And UKI wasnt responsible for the loss assessors or the 
surveyors, or the work they did.
I cant hold UKI responsible for any delays in completing the repairs after November 2018. 
Mr M had appointed his own contractors and if they werent able to complete the works until 
July 2019 that cant be laid at UKIs door, as it had no control over the contractors actions.
But there were delays caused by UKI in the tendering process and in the review of Mr Ms 
list of contents. There were also some delays in Mr M receiving payments. UKI has paid 
£250 to reflect those delays. Ill deal with the compensation payment below.
AA
Mr M feels that he was forced to accept lower quality accommodation and that it was not 
comparable to his property, a 4 bedroomed house. The AA was a 2 bedroomed flat.Mr M obtained a letting agents view on what he could let his property for  £2,500 per 
month. But I regard this as an indication of what he might have tried to get on the open 
market  it was no guarantee that that rent was achievable. UKI assessed the likely rent at 
£1,800 per month and settled on £2,000 per month. I think this was reasonable.
While the policy says it will pay for comparable accommodation, it has to be borne in mind 
that its often not possible to find comparable accommodation in the same area at a similar 
rent. Mr M presented UKI with four properties, two of which were substantially more 
expensive than the agreed rent. A third was only available on a twelve month let and at the 
time it was thought the property would only be needed for six months. UKI asked the 
landlord if they would agree to a six month let, but they would only do so for an increased 
rent beyond budget. This left the fourth property, a 2 bedroomed flat which Mr M had 
chosen, which UKI agreed to.
I cant see any indication of Mr M being forced into moving to an unsuitable place. The 
accommodation was limited in the area and he did select the flat as an option. I should add 
also that Mr and Mrs M took the accommodation and remained there until April 2019. I cant 
award compensation for what might have happened, even if I were to find that the flat wasnt 
comparable. So even though the rent was less than UKI was prepared to pay Mr M it isnt 
liable to pay a balancing payment.
extension to the AA
Mr M asked UKI to pay for an extra months AA. UKI refused to do so on the basis that it had 
already paid a cash settlement to include AA, allowing a reasonable time for repairs. But I 
cant see that it assessed whether the property was habitable. And whilst it has said recently 
that the property only required redecoration, I can see no evidence of this from UKIs file and 
it certainly wasnt the explanation given to him at the time. I think the investigators proposal 
that UKI pay Mr M for the cost of storage of his items, subject to Mr M providing proof of the 
same, is reasonable.
contents
Mr M feels that UKI irrationally reduced the amount it was prepared to pay for some of his 
contents items. I believe that UKI did properly assess the value of his contents items. In 
some cases it was prepared to pay up to his valuation. I have to bear in mind that its up to 
the policyholder to demonstrate their loss and produce evidence of their value. The main 
items of contention were:
dining room table and chairs
Mr M wanted £10,600 for these. UKI made a payment of £3,800. it explained that having 
researched the items, which were no longer available, Mr Ms chosen replacement was a 
very considerable degree of betterment. I think that UKI has put forward a reasonable 
explanation, for its payment.
chess table
Mr M selected an antique Victorian chess table, of an entirely different design and shape to 
the damaged one, and in immaculate condition. UKI discounted this by 50%, as Mr M 
couldnt show the original was antique and couldnt give any proof of cost. Comparing the 
photo of Mr Ms table against the selected item, I think UKI acted reasonably. As Ive said it 
was up to Mr M to show that his table was antique and of the value he assigned to it.
sofasUKI made a cash offer of £10,000 against £11,500 claimed. It did this after speaking to Mr 
Ms chosen supplier. I think this is reasonable and well within the ranges quoted by the 
supplier.
bedside cabinet/bedroom suite
UKI accepted that the whole suite needed replacing. But, it compared the amount requested 
against the cost when bought in 1996, and in my view offered a reasonable payment.
outstanding payments
UKI agree to make increase the payments for two items, a table and a sofa bed. This meant 
that a further £304 was owed. Mr M asserts that that is still owed to him, and that the 
balancing payment to him was for the carpets. UKI says it has been accounted for in the 
settlement. The settlement which UKI offered was for £47,187.38 which is calculated as:
Offer for contents:   £39,401.70
Add £ 304..00
Total          £39,705.70
Add carpets          £  7,481.68
Total          £47,187.38
UKI calculated that, taking into account payments already made, a payment of £7,435.68 
was owed, and that payment was duly made. So far as I can see, the £304 was accounted 
for, and included in the settlement made.
I think overall UKI settled the contents reasonably, and gave reasonable explanations for the 
items in dispute
Putting things right
I have mentioned the delays and UKIs agreement to pay £250 compensation. Mr M also 
says he was caused embarrassment by the hotel bills not being paid on time, abed he 
had to apy himself to assure that the stay could be extended. I understand that this was 
because the hotel refused to invoice UKI direct. I understand that but that wasnt Mr Ms 
fault. Ive taken into account the general delays and delays in payments. I note Mr M 
says he and his wife suffered ill health because of this. I am sorry to hear that but any 
insurance claim, especially one as large as this is going to cause a lot of stress and 
inconvenience. UKI isnt accountable for the stress caused by the claim itself. Its only 
accountable to the extent that that was aggravated by the way the claim was handled. And 
taking all the issues into account I think that UKI should pay a total of £400 (a further 
£150 on top of that already paid). So it has to pay a further £150 compensation.
In addition UKI should pay Mr Ms storage fees for his contents up until July 2019, 
subject to Mr M providing proof of the same.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require U K Insurance Limited to act in accordance with 
the settlement set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman