DRN-3915004
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lendable Ltd gave him incorrect information about how to contact them 
following a missed payment to his loan. 
What happened
Lendable Ltd sent Mr M an e-mail on 11 January 2022 asking him to contact them as his 
monthly loan payment had failed. Mr M tried to speak to Lendable Ltd on the phone at 
6.36pm on the same day, however their phone lines had closed for the day. 
Mr M called Lendable Ltd on the following day and made a card payment for the late 
payment. 
Mr M complained to Lendable Ltd as he was unhappy that he was unable to speak to them 
on the phone on 11 January 2022. He explained that Lendable Ltds e-mail to him about the 
missed payment set out that their phone lines were open from 8am to 8pm. 
Lendable Ltd upheld Mr Ms complaint as they accepted the information they gave about 
their phone lines was incorrect. They explained that they had reduced their support line 
hours to 8am to 6pm since the pandemic. Lendable Ltd offered to pay Mr M £25 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused and explained that they would amend the information 
about their phone hours for customers. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Lendable Ltds response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and felt that Lendable Ltds offer of £25 was 
fair noting that they apologised for their error and also noting that they had given Mr M other 
options to contact them when he called them on 11 January 2022.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendable Ltd accepts that the information they gave Mr M about their phone opening hours 
was wrong. So I dont need to decide that point as that is not in dispute. I have though 
considered how Lendable Ltds error affected Mr M. 
Mr M says that he was very stressed and worried about Lendable Ltds e-mail about the 
missed payment. I certainly understand how Mr M felt and why he was so keen to contact 
Lendable Ltd about that. 
I note though that Mr M was able to contact Lendable Ltd the next day and make the 
required payment. So, while I understand how concerning it was that Mr M couldnt contact 
them when he received the e-mail, the matter was ultimately dealt with swiftly. I think that 
Lendable Ltds offer of £25, which I understand has been paid to Mr M, was fair 
compensation for their error and how this affected him. I wont therefore be asking Lendable 
Ltd to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman