DRN-4185472
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty & 
General) for declining her claim for treatment for her pet dog, after she thought he may have 
eaten a toxic food. She wants Casualty & General to settle her claim.
What happened
Mrs H insured her dog, M, with Casualty & General from 2020 onwards. 
In February 2022, M got access to a bin bag which contained grapes. When Mrs H 
discovered M alongside the bin contents she took her to the vet, concerned that she may 
have eaten a toxic food. 
M was treated and given an emetic. No evidence of grapes was found in Ms stomach. 
The vets bill was for around £450. Mrs H submitted a claim to Casualty & General for 
reimbursement of the costs. 
Casualty & General requested Ms vet history. This included details of a number of 
occasions in 2018 and 2019 where M had eaten chocolate, cake and pasta and the vet had 
been consulted about this. 
Casualty & General rejected Mrs Hs claim. It said that, because M had a history of eating 
potentially toxic foods her owners ought to have taken additional care to prevent her from 
accessing human foods. 
Mrs H complained. She explained that on the recent occasion the bin big had been on the 
work surface and she had been called away from the kitchen to respond to her unwell child.
While she was distracted the bag fell onto the floor and M accessed the rubbish, which 
included grapes. 
Casualty & General sent its final response letter in July 2022. It maintained its decision to 
reject the claim and relied on two policy exclusions. These were that owners must take 
reasonable care to avoid accidental injury, and that owners must ensure their dog is under 
their control at all times. Casualty & General argued that, given Ms history of eating toxic 
foods, it would have been reasonable to expect Mrs H to keep M out of the kitchen to avoid 
further incident. 
Mrs H was unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They considered that Ms history meant it was reasonable for Casualty & General to expect 
that Mrs H would have taken extra precautions to stop M getting access to potentially toxic 
human foods. Mrs H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I made some further enquiries with Casualty & General regarding its decision and the way it 
had considered relevant legislation when making the decision. Casualty & General did not 
respond to those enquiries. 
I therefore issued a provisional decision in May 2023 upholding Mrs Hs complaint and 
provisionally directing that Casualty & General settle the claim and pay to Mrs H £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mrs H has responded, stressing that M gaining access to the bin bag was an accident and 
that she does not feel that there was any more she could have done at the time. 
Casualty & General has responded, repeating its earlier arguments about what would have 
been reasonable for Mrs H to have done, and also ultimately setting out its acceptance of 
the decision and putting forward its proposed basis of settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Casualty & General has repeated its earlier arguments, but has not addressed my 
substantive provisional decision, or answered my earlier queries, about why it considered it 
fair to treat Mrs H as though she had made a misrepresentation. 
I consequently have not seen any evidence or arguments to alter my view that it was unfair 
of Casualty & General to effectively apply additional conditions to Mrs Hs policy.
The repeated arguments instead suggest that Mrs H failed to take reasonable care of M and 
relate to the standard policy terms. Mrs H stresses that she did take reasonable care of M.
As previously set out, I do not think that Mrs H failed to take reasonable care, and I do not 
think any other exclusion applies. I have not seen any further evidence or arguments to 
change my provisional decision. 
I consequently remain of the view detailed in my provisional decision and uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, Casualty & General must now settle Mrs Hs claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions. 
Casualty & General has indicated that a deduction may apply for the vet visit being out of 
hours. I have not seen justification for this in the terms and conditions, but Casualty & 
General may apply its policy terms and explain its rationale for the settlement figure to Mrs 
H. 
If she is for any reason unhappy with that settlement, she may raise a further complaint and 
refer that to us. 
If Mrs H has already settled her vets bill, then Casualty & General should reimburse her, and 
add interest to the reimbursement at a rate of 8% per annum from the date she settled her bill up until settlement. 
Casualty & General must also pay to Mrs H £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and 
direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If making any deductions, 
Casualty & General must set out in writing the basis for any deductions from the 
settlement and make explicit reference to the policy terms that allow this; 
Add interest to any reimbursement to Mrs H at a rate of 8% per annum; and
Pay to Mrs H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman