DRN-2558610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Topsail Insurance Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S first took out their specialist silver annual travel insurance policy through 
Topsail online in February 2018. The policy renewed in February 2019 and again in 
February 2020.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs S made a claim to the policy insurer after a trip theyd booked 
had to be cancelled due to Covid-19. Ultimately, they were unhappy with the way the insurer 
handled their claim and they complained to it. They separately complained that Topsail had 
mis-sold them the policy and had misrepresented the available cancellation cover. They 
asked us to look into their complaint about Topsail.
Our investigator didnt think Topsail had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs S. He didnt think 
itd advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy, so it didnt need to check if it was suitable 
for their needs. He considered the information Topsail had provided to Mr and Mrs S after 
the policy had been sold to them. He was satisfied this was clear enough to allow Mr and 
Mrs S to decide if it was right for them. And he didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest that around the time of the 2020 renewal, Topsail had misled Mr and Mrs S about 
the extent of cancellation cover. So he didnt think Topsail needed to take any action.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They felt the investigators conclusions were grossly incorrect. 
They said theyd asked a specific question and were given an answer which they felt was a 
lie. So they maintained that the policy had been misrepresented. They felt that our role was 
to protect consumers from misrepresentation by financial businesses. And they requested a 
full refund of their premiums.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only consider whether Topsail mis-sold Mr and Mrs S policy. The investigator has 
considered their complaint against the insurers handling of their claim separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I dont think Topsail mis-sold 
their travel insurance policy. Ill explain why.
Topsail has shown me that Mr and Mrs S originally applied for their travel insurance policy 
online. This means theres no evidence it gave them any advice about whether they should 
take it out. So it didnt need to check it was suitable for their needs. But it did need to give 
them enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so they could decide 
if it was right for them. It also needed to make sure it brought any significant, unusual or 
onerous exclusions to their attention.
Ive seen a copy of an email, dated 18 February 2018, which was sent to Mr S after hed 
applied online for the policy. This included links to the policy terms and conditions; the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and Topsails terms of business. The IPID 
set out the main things the policy did and didnt cover. Section 1 of the policy terms and 
conditions, Cancellation and Disruption, listed the specified occurrences which the insurer 
covered and the applicable conditions and limitations on that cover. And Topsail has said 
there is no record of Mr or Mrs S calling it before taking out the policy online to ask any 
questions about the cover the policy provided. 
The email also shows that Topsail told Mr and Mrs S that it was important that they read the 
policy documents to check that the policy was right for them. And the policy included 
cancellation rights if theyd felt theyd been misled as to the level of cover. So I think, on 
balance, the evidence shows that Topsail met its obligation to provide Mr and Mrs S with 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that they could decide 
whether it was right for them.
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Topsail led them to believe that the cancellation cover 
provided by the policy was as comprehensive as any available on the market. They consider 
this was a misrepresentation. Ive thought about this. Topsail has said theres no record of 
any such discussion. Even if there had been though, I still dont think this would mean the 
policy had been mis-sold. Thats because Ive borne in mind that this was a specialist policy. 
I dont think then that it could be directly compared to other standard travel insurance 
policies on the market. As Ive said, I think it provided the information it was required to by 
the relevant regulators rules. And I wouldnt expect a broker to explain every eventuality that 
the policy did and didnt cover. 
Overall, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy that their insurer didnt settle their 
claim in full. But I dont think that Topsail has done anything wrong which it needs to put 
right. I think it provided Mr and Mrs S with enough information so that they could choose 
whether or not to keep the policy and whether or not to continue with it at each renewal. So 
this means Im not directing Topsail to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs S paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman