DRN-3073055
The complaint
Mrs O complained that a repair was delayed, and a further claim was declined under her 
home emergency policy with AWP P&C SA (AWP).  
What happened
Mrs Os boiler broke down and she made a claim on her policy as she had no hot water. She 
was told by AWP that she needed to provide evidence that her boiler was serviced within the 
last two years, as it said this was part of the terms and conditions of her policy. Mrs O said 
she was unaware of the policy term.
Mrs O was distressed and escalated her claim within AWP, and she informed it of her own 
personal circumstances that put her in a vulnerable position. This prompted AWP to have 
the claim reviewed by one of its managers. However, Mrs O said AWP didnt respond to the 
escalation, nor on three further occasions when she called it. Mrs O then escalated her claim 
further to AWPs executive office.
Due to her circumstances, AWP decided to waive its terms and conditions and chose to help 
Mrs O as she was in a vulnerable situation.
Mrs O says she continued to experience delays in getting her boiler repaired. Engineers, on 
behalf of AWP, had left cards outside of her front door to say they had tried to access her 
property. Mrs O said she didnt leave her house during that period, and she didnt 
understand why the engineers would not post the cards through her post box.
Later, Mrs O had a new issue with her boiler and had the expansion vessel and pressure 
relief valve repaired by her own contractor. She made a claim to AWP for the £40 repair 
cost. AWP declined the claim, as it said Mrs O had not made it aware of the emergency 
within 48 hours of noticing the emergency, which was a condition of the policy.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was fair leaving a vulnerable 
customer for two days without acknowledging her claim had been accepted. She didnt think 
the apology AWP gave for its lack of communication was enough, so she awarded £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays Mrs O experienced. However, she 
thought AWP was fair to decline the claim for £40 in line with its terms and conditions. Mrs O 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 September 2021. I said:
I will consider the complaint in two parts. Before I do, its worth clarifying that Mrs Os 
original policy was taken out with one insurer in 2002, but since June 2020 the home 
emergency part of this policy was transferred to AWP. Along with the transfer, AWP changed 
the terms and conditions. The change to these terms and conditions has been raised as a 
separate complaint by Mrs O, so I wont be considering this aspect as part of my decision 
here.
Delayed repair (claim 1)
Mrs O said she was unaware of the need to have her boiler serviced every two years for her 
cover to remain valid. AWP has provided the policy terms. I have checked these terms and 
they state:
Your central heating boiler should be properly installed and repaired, in accordance 
with the manufacturers recommendations and serviced and maintained at least 
every 24 months.
Written confirmation of your last boiler service may be required in the event of a 
claim.
Exclusions
Claims where you cannot provide written evidence that the primary heating system 
has been serviced within the last 24 months
As Mrs O was unable to evidence that shed had her boiler serviced within two years, AWP 
wouldve been fair in declining Mrs Os claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. AWP did decline the claim at first, but Mrs O insisted her claim should be accepted. 
She said the policy she accepted originally in 2002 didnt have any exclusion clauses.
I have reviewed the communications between Mrs O and AWP during the claim period. Mrs 
O first call was logged on 12 August. Mrs O sounded upset and explained her 
circumstances. I am persuaded Mrs O was in a vulnerable situation and with no hot water 
she felt in a desperate position. The advisor was unable to help and explained that the claim 
couldnt be accepted due to the terms and conditions. The call was escalated to 
management, but no one called back that day. Mrs O called twice more on the following day 
but didnt receive a call back in response to the escalation. Mrs O reiterated her vulnerable 
circumstances and explained shed escalated the complaint further to AWPs chief executive 
officer and was planning to raise a complaint to our service.
AWP wrote to Mrs O on 14 August to say it would honour her claim. It said our offer to 
assist her was made as a gesture of goodwill as she was a vulnerable customer and
not because of failings on our part. I recognise that AWP has been fair in providing Mrs O 
with an emergency service when she strictly didnt meet their terms and conditions. It took 
her vulnerability into account and took appropriate action. 
However, I do think it left Mrs O in a desperate position for two days before she knew action 
was being taken. I think Mrs O wouldve thought shed had a genuine claim. She paid her 
premiums in advance. So, its reasonable to assume that if shed known she needed to have 
her boiler serviced every 24 months she wouldve done. She sounded confused on the 
phone calls. It was clear from the calls that I listened to that Mrs O set out her vulnerability, 
so I think AWP shouldve acted quicker to deal with the situation. For the distress and 
inconvenience these delays wouldve caused Mrs O in her circumstances, I am intending to 
uphold this aspect of the complaint, and award £150 compensation. I dont think a simple 
apology has gone far enough in this situation.
I have also considered the time it took for the repair to be made and the impact this had on 
Mrs O. AWP said it struggled to get access to the property. It said Mrs Os preferred contact 
method was by email and Mrs O was unhappy when she was contacted by phone. Theres 
evidence, AWPs appointed engineers attended Mrs Os property as they left cards outside 
Mrs Os property to show they had been there. Its odd that the engineers attended, and Mrs 
O didnt hear them, but as I cant be sure what happened I wont be able to say anyone has done anything wrong. However, I have reviewed evidence from the complaint, and I can see 
AWP recognised the specific contact requirements Mrs O had specified and I can see that it 
did try to make reasonable adjustments to allow for this. Therefore, I dont think AWP did 
anything wrong here.
Declined claim (claim 2)
Mrs O later made a new claim for repairs her own contractor made to her boiler. AWP 
declined this claim, it said As the customer didnt make contact with us at the time, were not 
able to consider this cost. The policy terms and conditions state that the customer must 
contact us within 48 hours of noticing the home emergency situation. In addition, I dont 
believe the customer has had the boiler serviced within the last 24 months, therefore, she 
wouldnt be entitled to any assistance.
This second claim was made after the first delayed claim (claim 1). At this point, I think Mrs 
O shouldve been clear of the terms and conditions of the policy after the communications 
she had with AWP in relation to the first claim. Mrs O said she didnt want to raise the claim 
with AWP. I know Mrs O had previous issues with AWP, but I dont think its fair to expect 
them to cover costs for a repair it was not made aware about as it wouldnt have been able 
to do anything about it. As AWP has applied the terms and conditions fairly to decline this 
second claim and Mrs O wouldve been aware of these terms, I think AWP have been fair in 
declining this claim. The purpose of the policy is an emergency policy only. Therefore, I dont 
intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
AWP accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mrs O said she didnt agree with my provisional decision, as she said the claims
are interwoven - the claim for £40.00 is not a new claim, it was part of the ongoing
claim.
The other information provided by Mrs O was considered as part of the provisional decision, 
so I wont repeat it here.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. Mrs Os claim for £40 was later and after her first claim had been 
resolved, so I think AWP has been reasonable in treating it as a separate issue.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mrs O:
£150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience caused by the delays.
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that 
Mrs O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman