DRN-2481088
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Halifax) discriminated against her when it 
closed her share dealing account. 
What happened
Mrs R held a share dealing ISA with Halifax. In 2019 it wrote to her to explain that it had 
taken the decision to cease offering services to US citizens, so it was giving notice of the 
closure of her account in accordance with its terms. The letter said, in part:
The information we hold on our systems indicates that you are a United States (US) Person 
for tax purposes. 
Following a review of our service, and our obligation to report information about some 
accounts to the United States tax authority (IRS), we have concluded that we are unable to 
provide an appropriate level of service for US Persons in respect of benefits that can be 
passed on such as a full reduced withholding tax rate on US sourced income.
We therefore regret to inform you that we will be closing your account(s) with Halifax Share
Dealing.
Mrs R felt that it was discriminatory for Halifax to close her account because she also held 
British citizenship, dually with her US citizenship.
Halifax explained that its decision to close the accounts applied to any customer who was a 
US person for tax purposes, regardless of any other citizenship they might hold  British or 
otherwise. It therefore considered that it had not discriminated against Mrs R and had acted 
reasonably in reaching its decision to close the account and, further, that the terms of the 
account entitled it to take such action. 
Our investigator considered the matter but reached the same conclusion as Halifax and for 
broadly the same reasons. He didnt think that Mrs R had been treated any differently to any 
other customer in the same position.
Mrs R didnt agree, saying that she felt that her rights as a British citizen should be 
respected. She said she was British, lived in Britain, so should be treated as British by a 
British bank.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it will have been both frustrating and concerning for Mrs R to have received 
Halifaxs letter telling her that her account was to be closed. There was not only the 
inconvenience of having to find an alternative provider, but also the worry that shes 
expressed in bringing her complaint; that she was in some way being discriminated against.
I would say firstly that I think Halifax was entitled to take the action it did. Its explained the 
basis for its decision  in short, that the requirements of being a Qualified Intermediary to the 
IRS created challenges both procedurally and from a systems perspective that meant it was 
unable to guarantee the provision of a good service to customers. 
This appears reasonable, particularly as it seems that it considered whether customers 
would be able to find alternative providers. And more generally, Im satisfied Halifax was 
entitled to close the accounts, provision for which was made in the terms, as long as 
appropriate notice was provided, which it was. 
Turning to Mrs Rs primary concern, that she was discriminated against as a result of 
Halifaxs actions, while  as noted  I understand her concern, I dont think Halifax did 
discriminate. Its explained that it applied the account closure process to any account holder 
who was a US person for tax purposes.
With hindsight, Halifax could perhaps have made it clearer in the initial letter to Mrs R that its 
action also applied to those with dual citizenship, British or otherwise. The letter was, by its 
nature, very US-focussed. Mrs R has explained that she has lived in England most of her 
life and has no intention of returning to the US. So, I can see why she mightve felt she was 
being treated differently to other British citizens. 
But the key point is that Halifaxs actions were not focussed in any way on Mrs Rs status as 
a British citizen. Her account was selected as one for closure solely on the basis that she is 
a US citizen, and so a US person for tax purposes  something she signed to confirm when 
she completed a W-9 form for Halifax in 2019. 
This being so, Im satisfied that Halifax did not discriminate against Mrs R and acted 
reasonably in closing her account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman