DRN-4296997
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that UNUM Limited declined a claim she made on her employers group 
income protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs R is unhappy that UNUM have declined her claim and with the service she received. 
Mrs R became absent from work in November 2021. She returned to work in December 
2021 but was signed off again. In March 2022 she was placed on garden leave before her 
employment ended in August 2022 due to redundancy. 
In June 2022 Mrs Rs employer sent UNUM the employer claim form. Around the same time 
Mrs R completed a medical declaration. But she didnt complete the employee claim form 
until August 2022. 
UNUM assessed the claim and said that theyd been notified of the claim outside the 
relevant timeframe specified in the policy. So, they declined Mrs Rs claim. Unhappy, Mrs R 
complained to UNUM but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. So, Mrs R 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt think it was unfair that the claim had been declined because she 
noted that Mrs R had been on full pay throughout. However, she thought UNUM could have 
been more proactive when they became aware that Mrs R was struggling to complete the 
claim form. She thought UNUM ought to have identified at an earlier stage that there 
wouldnt have been a claim to be paid, because Mrs R was receiving her income. She 
awarded £200 compensation. 
Mrs R didnt think this was a fair outcome and raised lots of points in response to the 
investigators recommendation. In summary she said that UNUM should pay her former 
employer and that the compensation didnt fairly reflect what shed been through. She 
wanted to make sure that other people, in her position, didnt have the same poor 
experience. Unum accepted our investigators recommendation. So, I now need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. They should also 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. 
At the outset I acknowledge Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an 
informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to 
be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Im partly upholding Mrs Rs complaint but I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I say that because: 
Even if I accepted Mrs Rs position that her claim was unfairly declined it doesnt 
automatically follow that the complaint should be upheld. Id also need to be satisfied 
that Mrs R lost out as a result of what went wrong. I dont think thats what has 
happened in the specific circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs R was receiving her full pay from her employer during the relevant time that she 
was off sick and then on garden leave. The policy is designed to protect income in 
the event of long-term sickness. In this case there was no income for UNUM to 
replace.
I appreciate that Mrs R feels Unum has avoided paying her employer thousands of 
pounds. But, thats a matter between her former employer and UNUM. And, I cant 
fairly say that UNUM should make the claim payments when she didnt lose her 
income. 
UNUM did put Mrs R through a lot of unnecessary stress and worry. I think this could 
have been avoided if UNUM had identified that there were other reasons not to pay a 
claim much sooner. 
Mrs R did receive poor customer service during the claims journey. For example, she 
had to gather a lot of medical evidence and information about her health which I dont 
think was necessary given that shed not lost her income. She also didnt receive 
appropriate information and support with completing the claim form and some of the 
communication from UNUM didnt accurately reflect the medical information Mrs R 
had provided. There were times when Mrs Rs case wasnt handled with the 
appropriate level of empathy and understanding about her ability to engage with the 
claims process.   
Ive thought about the impact of the poor service Mrs R received. I accept it caused 
her unnecessary distress and inconvenience at a time when she was experiencing 
issues with her mental and physical wellbeing. So, I think it made an already difficult 
time even worse. However, I think £200 fairly reflects the impact on Mrs R during this 
time.  
Putting things right
Im partly upholding this complaint and direct UNUM to pay Mrs R £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by poor customer service. 
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mrs Rs complaint and direct UNUM Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman