DRN-2079669
The complaint
Mrs H complains XL Catlin Insurance Company UK (Catlin) Limited has unfairly declined 
her claim on her Holiday Home Insurance policy. 
I understand Mrs H has a representative in this complaint. But as the policy is in her name, I 
will refer to her only. 
What happened
This claim has been ongoing for some time, there have been a number of accounts given to 
our service by both parties. So I dont intend to go over every detail of whats happened. 
In June 2019, Mrs H made a claim on her holiday home insurance policy after her partner 
returned to the property after some time away and discovered an escape of water. Mrs H 
initially believed the leak was from pipework under the shower because a maintenance 
employee from the caravan park led her to believe that. So she completed a claim form on 
28 June 2019 explaining this. 
Shortly after Mrs H got in touch with Catlin, loss adjusters were sent to her property. Catlin 
has said they carried out routine tests but as no noticeable leaks were identified, a visit from 
a leak detection company was arranged. 
The leak detection company says it carried out tests on the property including a cold-water 
pressure test and a dye test to identify the source of the leak. But it wasnt able to find a leak 
from any fixed water pipes other than the stopcock outside the property. Instead, they 
identified the shower door was defective and wouldnt close properly so thought the water 
damage had been caused by water leaking when the shower was in use. It said the moisture 
readings were highest around the shower. It provided photos of the caravan including the 
appliances, the damaged flooring and the mould and staining to the floor. 
Mrs H disagreed with the loss adjuster and leak detection company. She said she hadnt 
been at the property for around five weeks so hadnt been using the shower. And she 
thought the problem with the door had been caused by the floor becoming uneven due to the 
water damage. She arranged for another loss adjuster (LA) to visit the property. He 
identified an overflow pipe usually attached to the toilet had come loose and thought the 
damage was caused by water leaking from it. He said the weather at the time had likely 
allowed excess water through which overflowed from the bottom of the cistern and onto the 
floor as the pipe was disconnected. 
Catlin didnt accept LAs view as its agents had confirmed the pipe wasnt loose when they 
inspected the property. They said if it had been, they would have noticed it and the leak 
would have been identified during their tests. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her claim, Mrs H came to our service. She explained shes lost 
out financially as her caravan is still unusable and shes had to pay for a family holiday 
elsewhere. Shes also still had to pay fees  for example, to keep her caravan at the park. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She said the claim had been fairly declined as 
she thought it couldnt be determined whether an insurable event had happened. She 
thought it was reasonable to say the cause of the damage was the faulty shower door having 
seen the pictures of it. And she said it was unlikely the loose overflow pipe wouldve been 
missed during the loss adjusters inspections. As Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will be very disappointing to Mrs H but Im not upholding her complaint. I know this 
has been ongoing for a very long time and has caused her a great deal of stress and worry  
so I thank her for taking the time to explain whats happened in so much detail. 
Under the terms of Mrs Hs policy, shes covered for an escape of water provided its caused 
by an insurable event (that includes for example, a pipe leaking) and not wear and tear or 
anything that happens gradually. So in this case, I need to be satisfied the damage was 
caused by an insurable event.
After Mrs H reported the damage to her property, Catlin arranged for a loss adjuster and 
then a leak detection company to visit and identify the source of the escape of water. And as 
I would expect to see, they carried out tests to see if there were leaking pipes or appliances. 
I can see from the report they tested the toilet, shower and sink and no leaks were identified. 
I understand Mrs H has given us a report by LA who visited the property after Catlins 
agents. And he thought the damage was caused by a loose overflow pipe that should have 
been connected to the toilet cistern. He said the cistern was likely overfilling due to the 
weather conditions and leaking out into the bathroom through the loose connection. But 
having looked carefully at the photos and the reports Ive been given, I think its unlikely this 
was the cause of the original leak. 
I say this because the picture of the pipe LA took shows its clearly disconnected from the 
cistern with a gap of a few inches. Its also not concealed by anything. So I think its unlikely 
it wouldve been missed by the loss adjuster and leak detection agents who visited the 
property with the purpose of finding the source of the escape of water. And theyve issued a 
statement confirming the pipe wasnt disconnected on their visits. I know Mrs H has said 
Catlins agents didnt pay much attention to the toilet because they focussed more on the 
shower but I can see they tested the toilet and took photos from around it. So I think its 
more likely they wouldve noticed it. I can also see from the photos the flooring was still down 
when the original visits took place and was pulled up either before or at the time of LAs visit. 
So I think its possible the pipe could have been dislodged then.
Mrs H has said the defective shower door didnt cause the damage. Shes said it wasnt 
defective until after the damage caused the floor to drop and she hadnt been there to use 
the shower in any event. Whilst it isnt my role to decide what the cause of the damage was, 
I dont think what Catlin has said is unreasonable. When Mrs H first reported the damage, she said there was a lot of mould and fungus that 
had grown around the floor. As mould and fungus takes some time to grow, I think its 
plausible the escape of water couldve been happening for some time before Mrs H reported 
it  but she just hadnt noticed it  particularly as a lot of the damage seems to be under the 
floor covering. And I think thats supported by LAs findings that much of the floor had dried 
up around the caravan and the loss adjusters readings showed it remained moist in some 
parts only (particularly around the shower). So I think its likely the damage just became 
more noticeable whilst Mrs H wasnt at the property because of the growth caused by the 
moisture. 
In any event, Catlin hasnt said the shower door was the cause of the damage  it just hasnt 
found any other explanation to confirm the damage was caused by something Mrs H is 
covered for. And I understand the maintenance employee from the caravan park initially 
thought the leak was coming from the shower  perhaps because the visual damage can be 
seen around the shower (as can be seen on the photos). So Im not satisfied Mrs H has 
shown its more likely it was caused by something covered by the insurance. Ive thought 
about what Mrs H has said about the stopcock outside the caravan leaking. But I note 
neither LA nor Catlins agents have said the damage could have been caused by the faulty 
stopcock. 
I understand Mrs H is unhappy because the claim has been ongoing for so long, the damage 
to her caravan is now irreparable. Shes also had to continue paying caravan park fees and 
for a holiday elsewhere. And I realise these things must all be very expensive further costs 
she didnt expect to have. But as I dont think Catlin has declined her claim unfairly, it follows 
that I dont think it should be responsible for these losses shes suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman