DRN-1665283
The complaint
Ms R complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited paid her ex-partner, Mr R, half 
of the value of two joint endowment policies without her agreement or knowledge.  
What happened
Ms R and Mr R held two joint endowment policies. Both matured in 2010, but the couple 
were unable to agree over the percentage split of the total maturity value. 
In 2019 Ms R found out Prudential had paid Mr R 50% of the maturity value without her 
knowledge or signed authorisation. She was very unhappy and upset by Prudentials 
actions. She said it had breached the terms and conditions of the policies by paying Mr R 
without her authorisation. And she questioned why she couldnt have requested payment 
years earlier without Mr Rs consent. She was also concerned that Prudential hadnt told her 
about the payment to Mr R. 
Prudential said it was approached by Mr R in 2019 asking for his 50% share of the money. 
And given the amount of time it was taking to settle the claim, it made a business decision to 
pay him without Ms Rs signed authority. Prudential said it made reasonable attempts to 
contact Ms R about the payment, but accepted its customer service couldve been better. It 
paid Ms R £100 and said it would release her 50% share of the money once it received 
completed claim forms. 
Ms R didnt accept Prudentials response to her complaint and referred it to our service. She 
thought Prudential shouldve made better attempts to let her know it was going to pay Mr R 
his 50% share. And she couldnt understand why it had made the decision to pay Mr R when 
it did. Ms R felt shed been disadvantaged as she couldve got her 50% of the money sooner 
if shed known two signatures werent required, as the Prudential had led her to believe. Ms 
R said having the money sooner wouldve benefited her quality of life by allowing her to buy 
property and invest the money. 
One of our investigators considered Ms Rs complaint and upheld it. He felt Prudential was 
within its right to have made a business decision to pay Mr R when it did. But he felt it 
shouldve done more to let Ms R know about the payment. He asked Prudential to pay Ms R 
8% interest on her share of the money from the date Mr R was paid his 50% share. And he 
thought the £100 already paid by Prudential was enough to compensate Ms R for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Prudential didnt accept our investigators suggested settlement, and said itd already paid 
Ms R Bank of England base rate interest on her share of the money from when the policies 
matured in 2010  putting her in a better financial position than she wouldve been in under 
the investigators suggested settlement. Prudential didnt accept itd made a mistake by 
paying Mr Rs share of the money when it did, or that any mistake on its part directly resulted 
in Ms R not having the benefit of the money sooner. So, it didnt think it should pay 8% 
interest. Our investigator accepted Prudentials position, and thought what itd offered was 
fair.Ms R didnt agree with our investigators findings and the case has been passed to me to 
review. She felt Prudential couldve released her share of the money much sooner, given it 
was now saying it didnt need two signatures. Ms R said having the money earlier wouldve 
impacted on her life and investment choices. So, she wanted Prudential to compensate her 
for her losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Its evident that despite Prudentials attempts to release the money sooner, Ms R and Mr R 
were unable to agree on how the proceeds of the two endowment policies should be split. I 
appreciate this was a difficult time for Ms R, and can fully understand her reluctance to settle 
on anything less than what she was entitled to. Despite Prudentials attempts to settle the 
matter, this dispute was ongoing from when the policies matured in 2010, to when Prudential 
paid 50% each to Mr R and Mrs R in 2019. 
So, when Mr R approached Prudential in 2019 asking for 50% of the money, it took a 
business decision to pay him without the need for Ms Rs authority. I can understand how
Ms R was upset by this. Particularly as shed been happy to accept 50% of the money from 
the outset, but believed both her and Mr Rs authority was needed in order for either of them 
to receive payment, in line with the terms and conditions of the policies.  
But Im satisfied Prudentials decision to pay Mr R was one it was entitled to make, having 
got advice from its legal department. Prudential considered how long it had been since the 
policies matured, and the steps itd taken to try to settle the matter. It also recognised Mr R 
was a joint owner of the policies, and as such, was entitled to half their value  whilst
Ms Rs 50% interest in the policies was being protected. So, based on the information 
available to Prudential in 2019, and in the absence of any legal documentation to show Mr R 
wasnt entitled to 50% of the money, I cant say Prudential acted unfairly by releasing the 
money to Mr R when it did. 
Ms Rs main concern is whether Prudential wouldve paid her 50% of the money she was 
entitled to if she had requested this in 2010. And if so, she wouldve had the benefit of the 
money sooner. 
Whilst I recognise that Ms R has found herself in an unfortunate position, Im afraid I cant 
agree with her on this point. Thats because I cant say with any degree of certainty that 
Prudential wouldve paid her 50% of the money in 2010 without Mr Rs authority. As far as 
Prudential was concerned, the policies, and their values, were owned equally by Mr R and 
Ms R. But given the lack of agreement between the parties from 2010 to 2019, Prudential 
retained the money until such time as an agreement could be reached. It was only nine 
years later, when Prudential was satisfied neither party was able to show they were entitled 
to more than half the money, that it took the decision to pay Mr R. Any action Prudential may 
or may not have taken if Ms R had insisted on being paid her 50% share of the money back 
in 2010 is speculative. And this wouldve been a decision for Prudential to take at that point 
in time.  I dont dispute the impact having her share of the money in 2010 wouldve had on Ms R and 
her familys financial and life choices. But given theres no evidence to show a mistake by 
Prudential directly lead to Ms R not receiving her share of the money in 2010, I cant ask 
Prudential to reimburse her for any financial losses she mightve incurred as a result. 
However, in appreciating Ms Rs difficult situation, Prudential agreed to apply the Bank of 
England interest rate to Ms Rs share of the money from 2010 when the policies matured. 
That seems fair to me. And puts Ms R in a better financial position than she wouldve been 
under the settlement offer suggested by the investigator.   
In terms of the customer service, its unfortunate Ms R didnt get letters sent by Prudential in 
2019 about the payment to Mr R, and that her phone calls werent returned within the time 
promised. Prudential has apologised for this, explained the attempts it took to contact her, 
and assured Ms R that not receiving its letters was in no way linked to its decision to pay
Mr R his share of the money. Prudential also paid Ms R £100. This all seems fair and 
reasonable to me, and in line with what Id expect to see in similar cases. So, I wont be 
asking Prudential to do any more.  
Putting things right
For the reasons I've given above, I believe Prudentials decision to pay Bank of England 
interest rates on Ms Rs half of the policies values from the date of their maturity is fair. I 
also think the £100 paid by Prudential for its poor customer service is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I dont require Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman