DRN-2150977
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy at how Studio Retail Limited dealt with a number of transactions on his 
account.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Studio. On 15 December 2019 he noticed hed been overcharged 
£0.66 on some goods hes purchased. He complained to Studio about this and, on 18 
December, they refunded the amount overcharged.
The same day Mr T complained again, about an email hed had saying some items had been 
added to his order  items he hadnt ordered. Because it was suspected that Mr Ts account 
had been used fraudulently, Studio put a block on his account while they investigated. 
Mr T received the goods he hadnt ordered, and he had to return these to Studio. Studio 
didnt tell Mr T the outcome of their investigation until 30 January 2020, at which point they 
said it was an internal error resulting in goods he hadnt ordered being sent to him. And they 
took the block off his account so he could use it again.
Because Mr T was still unhappy at how this matter had been dealt with by Studio, he brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Studio had accepted that both the overcharging and sending Mr T 
goods he hadnt ordered were their errors. And the investigator thought that the refund of the 
overcharge was reasonable to resolve that part of the complaint.
But the investigator also said Studios actions about the non-ordered goods had a greater 
impact on Mr T. Because it took Studio over a month to identify their error, and let Mr T know 
this, he spent this period of time concerned that his account had been fraudulently used. He 
also wasnt able to use his account for this period either. Because of this, the investigator 
thought Studio should pay Mr T £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Studio didnt agree with the investigator. While they accepted their errors, they thought that 
£100 was excessive for a 0.66p shortage and keying error  especially as everything was 
dealt with swiftly and no detriment to customer. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The fact that Studio made two errors isnt in dispute. They overcharged Mr T for some 
goods, and they made an internal error which resulted in him being sent goods he didnt 
order. And his account being suspended while this was being investigated. Because of this, 
my decision will concentrate on what I think is a fair remedy in the circumstances.
Studio overcharged Mr T £0.66 for some goods. He raised this with them on 15 December 
2018, and on 18 December they acknowledged this error and refunded the overcharge. This 
is what Id expect Studio to have done. So I wont be asking them to do anything more in 
respect of the overcharging.
Ive also seen the correspondence between Mr T and Studio from 18 December 2019 (when 
he first raised the issue of additional goods and potential fraud), and 30 January 2020 (when 
Studio acknowledged this was an internal error).
During this period Mr T sent seven emails to Studio chasing up a response and complaining 
that a promised call back didnt take place. In these emails he also complained that he was 
unable to raise a complaint through Studios website because a website issue stopped any 
complaints being made. 
In these emails Mr T also expressed concerns about the fact that the items hed flagged as 
not being ordered were sent to him anyway, and he had to return them. But, despite Mr T 
raising this on 21 December 2019, Studio didnt acknowledge receipt of the returned items 
until 21 January 2020  over four weeks later.
Studios case notes show that, on 19 December 2019, they didnt believe there to be a 
fraudulent transaction, and suspected an order was placed on the wrong account in error. 
But it took Studio over six weeks to confirm to Mr T that theyd made a error on his account  
six weeks in which Mr T wasnt able to use his account, and six weeks in which he believed 
his personal details had been accessed by a fraudster. 
Putting things right
Because of the above, I cant agree with Studio that they dealt with this matter swiftly. And I 
dont agree that Mr T suffered no detriment  the number of times he contacted Studio in the 
six weeks it took them to investigate the matter and acknowledge their error shows that this 
was something that caused Mr T some concern.
So, for these reasons, I agree that Studio should compensate Mr T. The investigator has 
recommended a payment of £100 to recognise this. I think a payment of £100 is a fair one 
and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. So, I direct Studio to pay Mr T 
£100 in recognition of the inconvenience, trouble and upset hed been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Studio Retail Limited must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman