DRN-3450308
The complaint
Miss S complains about a conditional sale agreement taken out in her name with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc, to get a used car.
Throughout Miss Ss complaint with us, she has been represented by a family member. But 
for ease, Ill just refer to Miss S.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss S says a third party, who Ill call A, was lodging with her and her 
husband. Miss S has explained that around that time, A was looking to buy a car, but 
needed help with getting an insurance policy. Miss S says she agreed to be a named driver 
on the insurance documents, so went with A to a dealership to get everything sorted.
Once at the dealership, Miss S says she told the salesperson that she couldnt read and 
asked them to explain the details on the insurance form. Miss S has also explained to us that 
a family member who had accompanied her, was told to wait outside the sales office. Miss S 
says the salesperson very briefly told her what the form was and where to add her signature.
A couple of weeks later, Miss S says she noticed a payment from her bank account to 
Santander. And in November 2020, she says she received a letter from Santander, about a 
conditional sale agreement in her name. When Miss S contacted Santander, they told a car 
she had acquired on finance, had been seized by the police. They said it was in the 
possession of someone who didnt have insurance cover in place to drive it.
Miss S says this is when she realised that the form signed at the dealership was for a 
finance agreement, rather than an insurance policy. She complained to Santander and said 
shed been tricked into taking out the conditional sale agreement and wanted to be removed 
from the contract. Miss S told Santander that all the other documents connected to the car 
were in As name, which shows she didnt authorise the agreement.
In their final response to Miss Ss complaint, Santander said that Miss S had signed the 
conditional sale agreement form and that she was responsible for the repayments. 
Santander also arranged for the car to be taken back from the police and sold at auction. 
The proceeds from the sale were used to reduce the amount owed by Miss S under the loan 
agreement. And Santander has since asked Miss S to repay the remaining balance.
Miss S didnt accept Santanders response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Ss case and found that Santander had treated her fairly. She 
said she was persuaded Miss S was aware of the conditional sale agreement when she 
went to the dealership. The investigator also concluded that Santander had carried out 
proportionate checks on Miss Ss financial circumstances and that those checks showed she 
was able to make the repayments due under the agreement.
Miss S didnt agree and said A had tricked her and used incorrect details throughout the 
application. She said she already had car, so wouldnt have needed to take out a loan for 
another. Miss S also said that Santander could have returned the car to her, instead of 
selling it, because she would have been better off that way.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Miss Ss case has now been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The signing of conditional sale agreement
The conditional sale agreement with Santander was taken out in Miss Ss name, with the 
dealership taking the role of the credit intermediary. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) has the effect of making the dealer, the agent of Santander during the 
antecedent negotiations. 
These negotiations were in the lead up to the signing of the loan agreement, starting from 
when Miss S first went to the dealership. But essentially, this means Santander are 
responsible for the acts or omissions of the dealer, in relation to the sale of the car to Miss S. 
In other words, Santander are responsible for the things the dealer said, did, didnt say, or 
didnt do during the sales process.
Miss S has told us that A asked her to come to the dealership, to be a named driver on his 
insurance policy. And that she had an agreement with A, whereby she would pay the 
premiums due under the policy from her account, with him making payments to her. Miss S 
also says that she relied on the dealer to tell her what she was signing and that her family 
member was made to wait outside the sales office.
Ive thought about Miss Ss personal circumstances, in that shes told us she cannot read. 
Ive also considered that Miss S says she thought she was helping A, by taking on a financial 
commitment to repay the premium for an insurance policy. In the end, I think Miss S was 
satisfied to do take on that commitment, without the support of her family member to help 
her understand the details.
Furthermore, I can see from Santanders records that Miss Ss previous address was used in 
the application, along with some of her personal information. I understand Miss Ss argument 
in that she says she thought this was in connection with the insurance policy. But, I think the 
extent of the information taken by the dealer, may have prompted Miss S to ask further 
questions, had she thought she was simply taking out an insurance policy.
Santander have also provided notes to show Miss S correctly answered questions about her 
financial information, to allow the electronic signature to be processed to the agreement. So, 
on balance, I think a thorough application took place, rather than a signature needed for an 
insurance policy.
Santanders contact notes with Miss S indicate that she initially asked to be able to collect 
her belongings from the car, after it had been repossessed in early November 2020. The 
notes also show Miss S spoke to Santander about trying to retain the car when she was told 
about the cost of voluntarily terminating the agreement. Its not until later the same day, 
where Miss S told Santander that A had taken out the agreement without her knowledge.
Ive considered what Miss S says, in that A had tricked her into signing the loan agreement. 
However, having considered everything and weighed up all the evidence, I think the 
information within the application, the identification checks carried out by Santander and Miss Ss actions when the car was seized by the police show that she had an interest in the 
car. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that Santander treated Miss S unfairly during the application 
for the conditional sale agreement. Based on all the evidence, I think its likely Miss S was 
aware of the loan agreement and had an arrangement with A for the repayments. So, while I 
acknowledge A hasnt met their side of that arrangement, I think its fair for Santander to ask 
Miss S to repay the balance owed under the agreement.
That said, I do empathise with the position Miss Ss now finds herself in. She has a debt 
owed to Santander for a car which she says came about after A, in their capacity as a friend, 
had asked her for a favour. So, I accept that the majority of Miss Ss frustrations here are 
about the actions of A. But, my role in this case is to decide if Santander have treated Miss S 
fairly.
Santanders decision to lend to Miss S
The relevant regulations and guidance for Santander to have followed are included in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Santander was 
entering a regulated credit agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be 
satisfied Miss S would be able to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to 
further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of Miss S. For 
example, her financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and
cost of the credit Miss S applied for would also be considered.
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to Miss S of not being able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check ought
to have been carried out by Santander.
The conditional sale agreement meant that Miss S was expected to make repayments of 
around £200 over five years. The total amount repayable to Santander was around £12,000. 
The application records provided by Santander show that Santander noted Miss Ss 
employment details and her residential status. There was also a credit check to show the 
history of the borrowing Miss S had with other providers.
Ive thought carefully about Santanders credit check to see if anything stood out about any 
of Ms Ss other accounts. Having done so, I think the credit check showed that Miss S had 
other borrowing, but she had met the repayments. Additionally Miss S didnt make any 
payments for rent, to a mortgage or any household utility bills.
From looking at all the information, I dont think there was an indicator for Santander to ask 
Miss S for further details to prove her credit worthiness. Miss S has since told us that some 
of the details recorded with Santander, such as her employer, are incorrect. But, based on 
the information taken at the time, I think it was fair for Santander to progress the application.
Ive also considered the fairness of Santanders decision to provide the loan to Miss S, 
based on what I can see from her financial circumstances at the time. Miss S has provided a 
copy of her credit report and her bank statements from July 2020 onwards. 
I can see Miss S received regular payments into her current account of around £900 each month. I can also see that Miss S made payments of around £370 every month, to her other 
creditors, leaving around £530 disposable income. I think this means Miss S had sufficient 
disposable income, to allow for the monthly payment due under the conditional sale 
agreement.
After taking everything into consideration, I think Santander completed proportional checks 
to see if the loan and the repayments were sustainable. Overall, I think Santander treated 
Miss S fairly when they made their lending decision.
The balance of the conditional sale agreement
My conclusions on the signing of the agreement and the checks Santander made before 
agreeing to the loan, mean I think its fair for Santander to hold Miss S responsible for the 
repayment of the loan balance. Miss S says she would have liked Santander to have handed 
the car back to her instead of selling it at auction. She says this would have been more 
beneficial for her in the long run.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement. Section 4.5 
says:
You will not allow the goods to be seized or removed by the police under a statutory 
power, this will be treated as a breach of the agreement. In the event that the goods 
are seized or removed we may take the goods into safe custody.
Having thought about what the terms and conditions say, I think Santander were able to look 
at the breach of the agreement and get the car back from the police. 
Santanders records from November 2020 show they spoke to Miss S about what would 
happen next. I can see that Miss S told Santander she couldnt afford to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement and that she wasnt sure about making payments towards it. Indeed, the 
records show that initially, Miss S told Santander she didnt want the car, but needed access 
to collect her belongings.
In all the circumstances, I think it was fair for Santander to take action to sell the car at 
auction, given the conversations they had with Miss S. I can see that Santander used the 
proceeds of the sale to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan. So, I think they treated 
Miss S fairly here.
I can see from Santanders records that although the car has been sold, Miss S will still be 
responsible to repay the remaining balance due under the conditional sale agreement. 
Miss S may have the option of repaying Santander in a lump sum, or she may be able to 
speak to them about a repayment arrangement.
Either way, I remind Santander of their responsibility to Miss S, to treat her personal and 
financial circumstances with forbearance and due consideration. This means Santander 
should look to agree affordable repayments with Miss S, which are consistent with her 
income and expenditure details.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman