DRN-3198727
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services 
(BMWFS) are charging him for damage following voluntary termination of his hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr H acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. When Mr H acquired it, the car was just under two years old and had covered 
approximately 15,500 miles. The total repayable under the agreement was £22,380.94. Mr H 
had to make 47 monthly repayments of £295.58. There was a final repayment option of 
£8,488.68 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
In July 2020, Mr H decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. He had already paid at 
least half of the total amount payable, so had nothing further to pay at this time to bring the 
agreement to an end. There was a slight delay in BMWFS agent collecting the car, but it 
was inspected and collected from Mr H in early September 2020. 
BMWFS then wrote to Mr H explaining that the car hadnt been returned in the condition they 
expected. They said his agreement explained that the car should be returned in good 
condition, allowing for fair wear and tear. BMWFS said the damage to some of the wheel 
trims and two of the tyres was outside of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines for what constitutes fair wear and tear, and asked Mr H to pay an 
additional £376.
Mr H complained to BMWFS. He said he had covered less miles in the car than the 
agreement allowed for, so felt he should be reimbursed for that. He was also unhappy as 
hed had to continue to insure the car during the delay in collecting it, which he felt BMWFS 
should pay for. He felt these reimbursements should negate any charges applied for 
damage. 
BMWFS responded. They agreed to pay for the additional costs if Mr H provided them with 
the invoice for the payment and the proof of insurance. BMWFS also took over the insurance 
of the car from 25 August 2020 until it was collected. But they said they wouldnt provide any 
refund for the mileage that hadnt been utilised, and they re-confirmed the damage amount 
still applied and was payable. BMWFS did offer Mr H £50 compensation for the delay in the 
collection of the car. 
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator accepted that 
the car hadnt been returned in reasonable condition, and the damage BMWFS had charged 
Mr H for was outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. But he went on to say that the main 
consideration in this case was how much BMWFS managed to sell the car for at auction 
once it had been returned to them. And he felt they had achieved a selling price consistent 
with the industry price guides, meaning BMWFS hadnt lost out as a result of the damage to 
the car. He said BMWFS should waive the damage charges. He also said BMWFS should 
remove any adverse information on Mr Hs credit file and pay him the £50 compensation 
offered for the delay in collecting the car. 
BMWFS didnt accept this. They said that the sale price at auction didnt mean they couldnt 
still hold Mr H liable for the damage charges for not returning the car in reasonable condition. 
They said the terms of the hire purchase agreement confirmed the charges had been 
applied correctly. 
As BMWFS didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
24 November 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This complaint relates to a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service can consider 
complaints relating to those sorts of agreements. 
Ive reviewed what our investigator has said and his comments regarding the sale of the car. 
But I also have to take account of the hire purchase agreement, and the terms and 
conditions contained within it, that have been agreed by Mr H when entering into the 
agreement. And in this case, I think Mr H is eligible for the damage charges. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement has a section titled Other Charges: which confirms all the 
additional charges Mr H could be liable for during the terms of the agreement, including if the 
car is returned. One of the clauses says the following:
(b) if the Vehicle is not returned in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), 
we will charge you a set cost for each item of damage we would have to repair or to return 
the Vehicle to the state we expected it to be in (we use recognised industry standards to 
determine this). These charges reflect the cost to us in carrying out the works needed. A list 
of the current charges that may apply can be found on our website
Im satisfied that the above clause clearly explains when damage charges will be applied, 
and the reason that they will be applied. And Im satisfied this is clear enough on Mr Hs 
agreement for him to be aware of. I accept that our investigator has said that the sale price 
of the car at auction, once it had been returned to BMWFS, indicated that BMWFS hadnt 
lost out financially as a result of the damage to the car  but I dont think its possible to say 
that with any certainty. It isnt known what price the car might have achieved had it been 
returned in acceptable condition, and its a decision for BMWFS if they wanted to have the 
car repaired or not before sending to the auction. But that doesnt take away their contractual 
entitlement to ask Mr H to fulfil the terms of his hire purchase agreement and pay for the 
damage that is deemed to be outside of fair wear and tear. Had the agreement mentioned a 
loss of resale value to BMWFS upon the cars return, then I think our investigators 
explanation might have been reasonable. But in this case, I dont think its reasonable or fair 
towards BMWFS.
Ive considered the inspection report and photos provided by BMWFS agent following the 
collection of the car, alongside the recognised industry standards BMWFS mention in their 
hire purchase agreement. In this case, they have used BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and 
tear. Ordinarily, these industry guidelines would primarily be used for a car being returned 
after its first period of lease  normally within four or five years. I know that the car in this 
case was just under two years old when Mr H entered into the hire purchase agreement, and 
he had use of it for over three years before returning it to BMWFS. But Im satisfied that the 
BVRLA guidelines are appropriate to consider here. Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to 
suggest any of the damage hes being asked to pay for was present when he entered into 
the agreement  so its reasonable to say all the damage had been caused while the car was 
in Mr Hs care. For that reason, Im satisfied BVRLA guidelines are a fair measure to 
consider. The damage charged for is to three wheel trims, all of which have been scratched in excess 
of 100mm  for which BMWFS have applied a charge of £68 per trim for refurbishment. And 
damage to two tyres, one of which has a gouge and the other is cracked. Charges of £86 per 
tyre have been applied. BMWFS have asked Mr H to pay a total of £376.
The BVRLA guidelines indicate that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel are acceptable, and that no tyres should have damage to their sidewalls or tread. So, 
in Mr Hs case, Im satisfied that BMWFS have applied a fair charge for the damage, and 
that the damage to the car can be considered as outside of fair wear and tear when 
considered against the inspection report, the photos and the BVRLA guidelines. Because of 
that, I think its reasonable for BMWFS to ask Mr H to pay for those damages. I wont be 
asking them to waive those charges.
BMWFS have a duty to report accurate information and fair reflection on Mr Hs payment 
history during this hire purchase agreement. And as Im satisfied theyre acting fairly by 
asking for the damage charges to be paid, I dont intend to ask them to make any 
adjustments to Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H has said the he feels he should be credited for the mileage he didnt use as part of his 
agreement, and this amount should be offset against the charge being applied for damage. 
But there isnt anything in Mr Hs agreement that confirms a credit would be applied for any 
mileage that isnt utilised up to the limit agreed. Mr H agreed the mileage allowance when he 
entered into the agreement, presumably based on his previous mileage covered and 
expected mileage for the duration of the agreement. It isnt BMWFS responsibility to 
reimburse him if he hasnt covered the miles he expected to or entered into. I dont intend to 
ask BMWFS to do anything else in this regard.  
BMWFS have apologised to Mr H for the delay in collecting the car and have offered to pay 
him £50 to reflect the inconvenience he was caused. I think this is reasonable. BMWFS have 
also agreed to pay for the additional insurance costs Mr H incurred as a result of the car 
being collected later  subject to Mr H providing BMWFS with an invoice confirming what 
hes paid and his insurance document. Again, I think this is reasonable. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
BMWFS were happy to accept the provisional decision. There was some initial confusion 
around the insurance information Mr H had provided, but this has now been tidied up and 
the correct information has been supplied to them. 
Mr H asked why any benefit BMWFS may have received for the car having 4,000 miles less 
than anticipated hasnt been considered? He said that BMWFS should be able to provide 
copies of any invoices showing any expenditure on the wear and tear that needed repairing. 
He also wanted to know if the wear and tear guidelines had taken into account the fact the 
agreement allowed him to cover a further 4,000 miles in the car. And would the damage at 
that point still have been considered outside the fair wear and tear guidelines.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mr Hs first point, Ive explained in my provisional decision that its a decision for 
BMWFS whether to have the car repaired or not before sending it to auction to be sold. The 
sale price in this case isnt my consideration when deciding if BMWFS have acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying the damage charges. Mr H has a contractual obligation to pay for 
damages to the car that are deemed to be outside of fair wear and tear, irrespective in this 
case of what BMWFS did with the car when it was returned to them. I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision in this aspect. 
Mr H has also asked if the fair wear and tear guidelines should be considered against the 
total mileage allowance agreed under the hire purchase agreement, rather than what the 
mileage was when the car was returned. And would that then bring the damage within the 
fair wear and tear guidelines. In this case, whilst Ive considered the reduction in mileage, Im 
not persuaded it makes a difference. My role is to decide if the car was returned with 
damage outside of fair wear and tear for its age and mileage. It was Mr Hs choice not to 
cover the mileage hed agreed when he entered into the agreement, but that doesnt impact 
on what is fair wear and tear. And my provisional decision explains why Im satisfied the 
damage charges can be applied by BMWFS. 
Having considered everything, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Mr H 
is liable for the damage charges requested by BMWFS. BMWFS can follow their standard 
collection process to collect payment, if payment hasnt already been made. And BMWFS 
have already made an offer to settle the other aspects of the complaint which I think its fair.  
My final decision
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services have already made 
an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint, along with Mr Hs insurance costs, and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial 
Services should pay Mr H:
£50 for the inconvenience caused when the collection of the car was delayed (if this 
hasnt been paid already);
Reimburse Mr H for his extended insurance cost up until 25 August 2020 now that 
proof of those costs has been provided (if this hasnt been paid already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman