DRN-4057366
The complaint
Mr G has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded a claim he made under his 
motorcycle insurance policy as a fault claim. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy to his insurer, AXA in May 2022. 
Mr G came off his motorbike which he says was due to an uneven road surface. 
Mr G says AXA failed to properly investigate the claim. He says he provided evidence to 
show fault by a third party due to loose gravel on the road which hadnt been bonded. Mr G 
said a broker and claims agent on behalf of AXA was involved in the claim. He said he 
provided information to investigate liability for the incident to at least one of the parties. 
AXA said it didnt have a record of the information Mr G said hed provided. Mr G offered to 
send the information again to AXA in September 2022 - but wanted AXA to first provide 
details of what checks it had made to find the information Mr G said hed provided. He didnt 
receive a reply to his request from AXA. And so he didnt provide the information and raised 
a complaint.
Mr G wants AXA to change the recording of the claim to a non-fault claim and compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr G says he had to remove himself as a 
named driver under his wifes policy due to the increase in premium. 
In December 2022 AXA upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. It apologised and said it hadnt 
received evidence from Mr G to support that a third party was at fault for the incident. It 
agreed it had failed to respond to Mr G in September 2022 when he offered to send the 
information - with conditions - to AXA. 
AXA explained that the term fault is used for claims that are open and where liability has not 
yet been established - and/or where recovery of the costs of the claim from a third party 
hasnt occurred. For failing to explain this to Mr G when he made his claim - and for failing to 
respond to Mr G in September 2022, AXA paid Mr G compensation of £150. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator thought AXA had correctly followed the process in how it recorded the 
claim. As it didnt receive the requested information from Mr G, the Investigator thought AXA 
had done enough to resolve the complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said in response to AXAs request for him to re-send the information - 
he asked it to provide details of what it held on file for the claim, and what enquiries it had 
made with its agents to follow up on information Mr G said he sent to agents acting for AXA. 
Mr G said as AXA didnt respond to his request, he disagrees that he refused to send the 
information to AXA. He said before he sent the information , he wanted to establish if AXA or 
a claims agent acting on AXAs behalf had lost his information. 
The Investigator explained that AXA told Mr G it didnt know what had happened, but that it 
didnt have a record of the information he said he sent - and this is why AXA asked Mr G to 
send it. The Investigator didnt think AXA had acted unreasonably in not meeting the 
conditions Mr G set before he would send the information AXA asked for - to consider 
liability under the claim. As it didnt receive the information it asked for, the Investigator 
explained that he didnt think AXA had done anything wrong here up until it responded to Mr 
Gs complaint in December 2022.
Mr G said AXA failed to respond to his request in line with General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) rules, which our Investigator explained Mr G would need to raise with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr G accepts this, but doesnt accept that he 
obstructed the progress of the investigation into his claim by not providing the information he 
says he already provided to either AXA, the broker or claims handling agent on behalf of 
AXA. 
Mr G says the claim was closed in September 2022 as a fault claim by AXA before it had 
investigated it. 
The Investigator contacted AXA to ask if it would now consider the information Mr G has 
provided, which AXA agreed - and it has since re-opened the claim. 
Mr G wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G contacted AXA to complain that hed already sent evidence to multiple parties 
to support his claim that a third party was at fault for the incident, AXA explained that it didnt 
have a record of receiving it and apologised for this.
I appreciate that Mr G believes AXA is responsible for failing to follow up with the other 
agents involved in his claim and he believes the information that hed previously provided 
was lost. 
AXAs claim notes show an entry dated 22 September 2022. It reads:
I called broker spoke to (name of claims handling agent inserted here) was advised 
no information was sent to them regarding who is at fault or any of their information / 
police ref / images
I have to take an even handed approach to things and consider whether Mr G did all he 
could to mitigate matters, once he was aware that AXA didnt have a record of the 
information - and while he was in a position to send it to AXA to investigate the claim. With 
this in mind, I cant safely conclude that AXAs actions have caused an avoidable delay 
which may have prejudiced the likely success of the claim being settled as a non-fault claim, 
as Mr G suggests. 
I understand Mr G wanted AXA to provide him with further information before he was happy 
to send the evidence he wanted it to consider. And he is unhappy that this request wasnt 
responded to by AXA. As the Investigator explained, Mr G can contact the ICO if he is 
unhappy with the way AXA dealt with his request for information here.
Mr Gs claim has been closed and re-opened while AXA has looked at the issues Mr G has 
raised since September 2022. And AXA has confirmed it has re-opened the claim again to 
consider the evidence from Mr G, now that it has received it.
Mr G says AXA seems to acknowledge it lost claims information which led to a failure in its 
duty to properly investigate the claim. I agree AXA accepts it doesnt have a record of the 
information Mr G says he provided. And AXA accepts that it failed to reply to Mr Gs request for information in September 2022 and paid compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Overall I think AXA dealt with Mr Gs complaint reasonably in December 2022. 
I understand Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman