DRN-1732029
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N have complained to Integrity IFA Ltd that, when it ceased to be their 
financial adviser in November 20128, it, nevertheless, continued to receive fees from their 
insurers even though they intended to appoint a new adviser. They question why Integrity 
didnt notify the insurers that it should no longer receive these fees and continued to accept 
them in breach of Financial Conduct Authority regulations.
Furthermore, Integrity passed their personal details to another advisory firm in November 
2018 against their wishes and Mrs N and Mr N have reported this as a breach of data 
protection legislation to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mrs N and Mr N have requested Integrity to return any fees it received from the insurers 
since November 2018 when it confirmed to them that it could no longer act as their adviser.
What happened
Integrity has failed to respond to our request in August 2019 for its file of its dealings with
Mrs N and Mr N since November 2018. Neither has it issued Mrs N and Mr N a final 
response letter since they complained to it in March 2019.
Accordingly, one of our investigators considered Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint based on the 
evidence they alone had provided and felt that it should be upheld. Briefly, she said that:
Integritys failure to comply with our request for its file and evidence of its dealings 
with Mrs N and Mr N since November 2018 was in breach of Financial Conduct 
Authority Dispute Resolution rule 3.5.11 and part XVI, section 231 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act  2000;
Integrity had written to Mrs N and Mr N to notify them that it would no longer be able 
to offer them ongoing financial advice from 16 November 2018. It also suggested that 
their personal details, and responsibility for providing ongoing advice, should pass to 
another named adviser firm. Mrs N and Mr N didnt give their consent for this firm to 
become their adviser and confirmed that they wished to appoint their own adviser;
The adviser recommended by Integrity subsequently wrote to Mrs N and Mr N 
introducing itself even though Mrs N and Mr N had specifically requested Integrity not 
to pass their personal details to this firm;
Integrity continued to receive fee payments between November 2018 and April 2019 
of around £710 from insurers with whom Mrs N and Mr N held policies for which 
Integrity no longer acted as the servicing agent. 
 
Therefore, unless Integrity can provide evidence to the contrary, she recommended that it 
should compensate Mrs N and Mr N by:
reimbursing them all fees it, or the new adviser, received between 24 November 
2018 and 1 April 2019 plus;
interest on each payment at eight per annum simple from the date it was paid to the 
date of settlement;£250 for the 'trouble and upset' this matter will have caused them.
   
In response, Mrs N and Mr N accepted the investigators view.
As we have received no response from Integrity since March 2020, the complaint has been 
referred to me for review.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Integrity has failed to provide any evidence of its dealings with Mrs N and Mr N since 
November 2018, I have based my decision on the information provided by them.
Its evident that Integrity did write to its clients, including Mrs N and Mr N, on 23 November 
2018, advising that, with effect from 16 November, it could no longer provide them an 
ongoing service and advice. It confirmed it had arranged from another firm to take 
responsibility for servicing their investments, and that this firm would be writing to them 
shortly to explain more about the services it offered.
Integrity did explain that, if Mrs N and Mr N didnt wish for their ongoing service and personal 
data to be automatically transferred to this firm, they should let Integrity know as soon as 
possible. 
Mr N emailed Integrity in November 2018 to confirm that he didnt give consent for their (his 
and Mrs Ns) ongoing service and personal data to be transferred to this firm. Integrity 
acknowledged that both Mrs N and Mr N had made this request and updated its record to 
confirm that neither of them wished to transfer servicing right to this new adviser. Integrity 
did, however, confirm that this adviser had already posted a welcome letter to them.
In these circumstances, Integrity wasnt entitled to retain fees from insurers in respect of 
investment held by Mrs N and Mr N for which it now ceased to be the servicing agent.
Under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Conduct of Business (COBS) Rule 6.1A.5: 
A firm may receive an adviser charge that is no longer payable (for example, after the 
service it is received in payment for have  been amended or terminated) provided the firm 
refunds any such payment to the retail client.
So, given its evident Integrity notified Mrs N and Mr N that it would cease to provide them an 
ongoing advisory service from 16 November 2018, any fees it received from insurers since 
that date should be refunded to them.
I also think that one payment of £250 to both of them is sufficient compensation for the 
trouble and upset they have suffered in this matter.  
Putting things right
I require Integrity IFA Ltd to reimburse them the fees it received from insurers between
16 November 2018 and 1 April 2019 in respect of policies held by Mrs N and Mr N for which 
it ceased to be the servicing agent, plus interest on these sums at the rate of eight per cent 
per annum simple from the date each payment was received to the date of settlement.I also require Integrity IFA Ltd to pay Mrs N and Mr N £250 for the trouble and upset they 
have suffered jointly in this matter for this breach of data protection rules.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman