DRN-4264436
The complaint
Mr R complains that Zopa Bank Limited (known as Zopa at the time) provided misleading 
information about the projected returns available through its Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending 
platform. He says he relied on the information when deciding to open a P2P account. He 
also complains about how his loans were acquired when the platform closed. He says he 
has suffered losses as a result. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr R opened a P2P lending account on Zopas platform. He based his decision to 
invest on the information he reviewed on Zopas website about projected returns and default 
rates. 
Mr R says he noticed within the first two years of investing that the actual default rates 
experienced for his loan portfolio were significantly higher than Zopas projections, so his 
returns were lower than he expected. He decided to sell some loans in order to mitigate 
against ongoing further losses. He incurred a charge for selling these loans. The loans he 
sold were up to date and it wasnt possible to sell the non-performing loans in his portfolio. 
On 7 December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer 
investments and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to 
buy Mr Rs loan portfolio at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers had already 
paid up to the date of sale) and said hed receive his investment balance back by 31 January 
2022.
After receiving notification that the sale of his portfolio was complete, Mr R raised a query 
about not receiving anything for his defaulted loans. Zopa responded to say that Mr Rs 
defaulted loans had been acquired  but as they were defaulted, the value of that loan drops 
to £0, so he wouldnt receive a payment for these loans.
Mr B made further inquiries but wasnt satisfied with the responses he received from Zopa, 
so raised a complaint. He said the performance of his portfolio compared to the anticipated 
default rates and forecast returns, means Zopa didnt carry out its duties properly or with due 
care in relation to the loans allocated to him. He was concerned that Zopa didnt do all it 
could do recover monies from defaulted loans. He also raised a point about Zopa keeping 
any future recovered funds from defaulted loans it had acquired from him without payment. 
Zopa responded to the complaint. It explained why it had closed its P2P platform and why it 
was able to purchase loans from investors as part of the process. It also reiterated that 
defaulted loans hold zero value, so this is why they are acquired without payment. It said it 
isnt compensating customers for the potential recoveries that could be made through 
defaulted loan recoveries  and explained the majority of defaulted loans in the P2P portfolio 
have already been sold off through debt sales. It said not all defaulted loans are eligible for a 
debt sale due to things like customer bankruptcy or vulnerability - i.e. cases in which minimal 
capital recovery is expected. It also acknowledged Mr R was unhappy with the returns on his 
investment but said returns were never guaranteed. And because he invested in the Zopa 
Plus product, this came with higher returns but more risk.  
Mr R didnt feel this response answered the specific points he made in his complaint. Zopa 
responded again. In summary it said:
All loans are subjected to risk control checking, and where appropriate manual 
underwriting  and higher defaults experienced are likely to do with the risk of the 
product Mr R invested in. 
Investments come with risk, and there is never a guaranteed return. It ran regular
debt sales on loans that were not performing or had defaulted in the attempt to
recover monies for all investors. 
The impact of the 2020 pandemic resulted in higher defaults than anyone could have 
expected.
It will not be providing the information in respect of recovery action Mr R requested 
as it is commercially sensitive.
As Mr R didnt agree with this response, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. 
In summary she said:
- Zopa forecast a return of 6.7%, however this was not a guarantee of returns.
- Zopa explained the potential increased returns as well as the potentially higher risk of 
investing with the Zopa Plus product.
- Mr Rs investment was allocated to the correct levels of risk as Zopa had stated in its 
promotion.
- She found the information given by Zopa on its website to be fair and not misleading 
and was satisfied that the risks were explained properly.
- When Mr R sold his historic loans, he was charged a 1% fee. She found this fee was 
made clear before he sold his loans, so didnt see that Zopa have done anything 
wrong when it levied the charge.
- She found the January 2022 acquisition of the loan portfolio hadnt treated Mr R 
unfairly. While he did have loans acquired at zero value, this was because they had 
defaulted, with little prospect of future return. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings and requested his complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman to reach decision. He reiterated his concerns that Zopa did not do all that 
was practical to recover monies first, before writing off the value of any loan. He also said 
Zopa has unilaterally acquired his defaulted loans for no cost  and again raised that Zopa 
would keep any future recoveries or could sell defaulted loans (keeping any sale proceeds). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is disappointed with the returns hes received on is portfolio. He has explained when he 
signed up to become a P2P lender with Zopa he relied on information about expected 
returns and defaults to make his decision to invest, but he feels he was misled and refers to 
the actual performance of his loans  including higher default rates. 
Ive looked at the information that was available on Zopas website at the time Mr R opened 
his account. There were projections and estimations of returns and defaults  but by their 
very nature these werent guarantees for future performance. Zopa also provided risk 
warnings that capital wasnt secure. The Zopa Plus product was described as having higher 
projected returns, but with a caveat that there was a higher expected credit risk. There was 
also a reminder that past performance isnt a reliable indicator for future result - and 
forecasts arent reliable indicators for future performance.   
I note Mr R believes given the high proportion of defaulted loans, Zopa didnt risk rate loans 
properly or allocate loans properly to his portfolio. I havent seen anything to support this 
claim. Ive seen that his loan portfolio was spread across the various risk bandings of loans 
in line with the described characteristics of the product he selected. As he began to sell 
loans and reduce his portfolio by not reinvesting, he ended up with remaining loans that had 
run into payment issues.   
Mr R has also questioned whether Zopa did all it could have done to recover monies, before 
writing off the value of any loan. Hes suggested it would seem easier and cheaper for Zopa 
to default and write off loans rather than expend its resources on recovery actions. Again, I 
havent seen any evidence to support this. There is a balance to be struck between the likely 
success of recovery actions and the cost of undertaking such actions. A judgement is made 
with Zopa acting in the interest of all lenders, and it also had obligations towards borrowers 
in respect of how it pursued underperforming loans. I dont agree it was in Zopas interest to 
avoid taking recovery actions and right off loans prematurely. I do understand why Mr R is 
unhappy that more of his loans defaulted than he was expecting, but I havent found this to 
be as a result of failings by Zopa. 
The fact Mr R is disappointed with returns, doesnt necessarily mean Zopa are at fault. I 
need to see evidence that Zopas failing had caused losses or misled Mr R into investing in 
something that he wouldnt otherwise have done. I havent found evidence that Zopas 
failings caused the losses Mr R is unhappy about or that he was given misleading 
information prior to investing.
Mr R has also raised concerns about how the remaining loans in his portfolio were acquired 
by Zopa when it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. Zopa says the 
decision was made essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr R has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
I understand Mr R essentially de-invested from the platform several years before Zopa 
decided to close it. In December 2021, when the decision was communicated to investors, 
Zopa has confirmed the funds Mr R had left on the platform were valued at around £50 and 
were in non-performing and defaulted loans. It doesnt appear his account had been actively 
used for some while. 
Mr R has argued that he has been treated unfairly by not being paid anything for his 
outstanding defaulted loans. I understand the point he makes about the principle of the 
potential for future recovery payments to be made or sale of the loans  so his defaulted 
loans still hold some potential value. But I also need to look at the circumstances of his 
remaining defaulted loans and the likelihood of him receiving further money from them had 
they not been acquired by Zopa. Having carefully considered everything  I dont propose to 
ask Zopa to make any payment to Mr R.
Mr R invested a significantly larger amount of money on the platform than the amount 
remaining at the time of acquisition of his defaulted loans. Zopa says he deposited £10,000 
and had withdrawn approximately £10,700. Most of his funds had been withdrawn by the 
end of 2018, leaving a very small balance of funds left. Not only was it a significantly smaller 
amount of money, but the likelihood of recovery actions also returning much of the remaining 
money appears to be extremely limited.At the time of the portfolio acquisition, Zopa says there were four defaulted loans left that 
had all gone into formal recovery many years earlier. So, these were loans that had failed to 
be fully recovered despite being in default for many years. I also acknowledge the points 
made by Zopa regarding loans that have been default for some time are unlikely to be 
eligible for a debt sale due to situations of bankruptcy or vulnerability. So, the balance of 
evidence doesnt support the chances of any meaningful future recovery being achieved. It is 
not unexpected that some P2P loans will fail to recover capital as this in an inherent risk of 
this type of investment. 
While it isnt possible to make a definite statement on future recovery, on balance, the 
evidence doesnt support that Mr Rs defaulted loans were likely to pay back much, if 
anything at all. Taking all of these circumstances into account, I dont find Zopas action of 
acquiring Mr Rs defaulted loans with a zero value to be unreasonable when considering the 
position of his loan portfolio at the time of acquisition. I also note Zopa says it did make Mr R 
a small payment that covered the face value of two loans that were in arrears. This is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Lastly, I note Mr R has referenced a news article regarding Zopa re-entering the P2P market 
by acquiring a loan portfolio. Mr R says this links to his complaint points about the potential 
for Zopa to make recoveries on the defaulted loans it acquired from him.  This article doesnt 
appear to be directly related to the loan acquisition process that was announced in 
December 2021. So, I dont find this is relevant to my considerations of the specific 
complaint Mr R has brought to this service - or that it impacts my consideration of what is fair 
and reasonable outcome of this complaint. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, but I havent found that Zopa needs 
to pay him any compensation from the loan sale. For the reasons above, I reach a finding 
that he hasnt been treated unfairly by Zopa when it acquired his loans when closing the 
platform or when he first opened his account.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman