DRN-3784951
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV) dealt with a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S was involved in a road accident and her car was damaged. She claimed on her motor 
insurance policy with LV. Repairs to Ms Ss car were arranged using LVs approved garage. 
Its not in dispute that the garage treated Ms Ss car badly and damaged it. Its staff also 
spoke inappropriately to Ms S.
In May 2022 LV sent Ms S £100 to apologise for the issues Ms S had experienced with the 
garage. In June 2022 LV offered Ms S a further £100. It subsequently increased that to £250 
and explained that it was to account for the issues with Ms Ss claim and the distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced.  And it said it hoped the revised offer suitably 
compensated Ms S for her time and the fuel costs shed incurred trying to sort the matter 
out. 
In June 2022 LV set out two options to settle Ms Ss complaint. In summary, it said its 
recommended garage would:
1. Pay £18,500 to the dealer on delivery of a new car, assuming that there was no 
further damage to Ms Ss car. The offer would only be open for 16 weeks.
Or 
2. Pay Ms S £6,500 straight away. She could keep the car to use as a trade-in for a 
new one. If the amount she received from trading in her car was less than £12,000 
(i.e. the balance of the full £18,500 value it placed on the car) it could review that.
In August 2022 Ms S told LV that shed ordered a new car in late June, but that delivery 
would take some time. She said shed accept the offer of £6,500 as settlement to repair her 
car or put towards a new one. But she said she understood that our service would expect 
VAT to be included. And she didnt regard the £350 total compensation RV had offered her 
to be anything like enough.
LV replied that its engineer had confirmed that £6,500 was already more than the cost of 
rectifying the outstanding issues with her car would be, including VAT. So there would be no 
further increase in the offer. It offered to pay Ms S the £250 further compensation it had 
offered on a without prejudice basis. And it said that it agreed that as shed ordered her new 
car in June, any shortfall below £12,000 would need to be covered. 
In another email to Ms S, LV further clarified that  the £6,500 offer weve made in lieu of 
rectification is not something that we or the garage will be able to add VAT to. The total cost 
of rectification including VAT is less than the £6,500 settlement thats been offered to you.
Ms S remained dissatisfied with LVs handling of her claim and brought her complaint to us. 
Shes told us the points that shes most upset about are that LV lied to her about the 
inclusion of VAT, and that the offer of £18,500 was subject to a time limit. She says VAT 
should be added to any settlement figure, as she would have to pay VAT and has no way of 
claiming it back. 
Ms S is also unhappy about the considerable amount of time shes spent trying to sort things 
out with LV. She says LV and its approved repairer have caused her stress, which has 
caused a medical condition to flare up. And she says LV made her feel pressured into 
making a decision even though the information it gave her didnt make sense. She says she 
feels shell be left significantly out of pocket whichever option she chooses. 
One of our investigators considered Ms Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she didnt think LV had lied to Ms S. She thought the settlement options Ms S had 
been given were reasonable. And she said the compensation LV had offered Ms S was in 
line with our guidelines.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S has reiterated that she believes that LV lied to her. She says that LV initially told her 
that VAT was included in the settlement offer, but changed its mind once it received the 
repairs estimate, which didnt include VAT. She says the estimate was £4,500 excluding 
VAT and the remaining £2,000 represents the depreciation in value of her car by the time 
she receives her new car.
Ive seen a copy of the repair estimate which LV got from its engineer. It showed total 
estimated repair costs of £4,421.14 plus £884.23 VAT, making a total of £5,305.37 including 
VAT. LV has offered Ms S nearly £1,200 more than that in lieu of paying for the repairs. Ive 
read carefully through all LVs correspondence with Ms S and can find nothing to 
substantiate what she says about LV having lied or sought to mislead her. Its repeatedly 
explained that it isnt willing to add VAT to the £6,500, as that figure is already more than its 
engineers have said the repairs plus VAT would cost. I consider LVs position to be 
reasonable. 
I dont accept that the figure of £6,500 included £2,000 to reflect a diminution in value of 
Ms Ss car. Essentially under both the options Ms S would be entitled to receive £18,500 for 
her car. But there were two different ways of reaching that figure. One was to pay the dealer 
£18,500 directly for a new car. The other was to pay Ms S £6,500 directly, and if she 
ultimately achieved less than £12,000 on trading in her car, to make up the difference. LV 
said that this would be on the proviso that the car hadnt been damaged further in the 
intervening period. I consider that to be entirely reasonable. And since LV said any shortfall 
would be made up if Ms S achieved a price lower than £12,000 when she traded in her car, 
she was protected against any depreciation in value in the intervening period. 
So I cant see that either of the settlement options left Ms S out of pocket as she has 
suggested. And I dont consider 16 weeks to have been an unreasonable time limit to put on 
the first option, especially given the availability of the alternative option. 
Turning to compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms S has experienced, I accept that Ms S experienced stress and inconvenience as a result of the poor repairs and further 
damage caused to her car by LVs approved repairers. And I acknowledge that she says she 
incurred some fuel costs in trying to resolve the issues. But I consider the compensation that 
LV has offered Ms S to be reasonable and in line with what Id expect in all the 
circumstances. And I consider that overall LV handled Ms Ss claim fairly and reasonably. 
So taking everything into account, I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, 
but I cant fairly ask LV to do more than it has already offered to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman