DRN-3107441
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Santander UK Plc registered a marker about her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database. 
What happened
Santander said that Miss Y received £5,000 into her account on 12 July 2019. It said it 
identified that this money was fraudulently obtained. And it asked Miss Y to show that she 
was entitled to it. Santander said it wasnt satisfied with her explanation and so it closed her 
account and didnt let her have the money. It said it had grounds to add a marker at CIFAS.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the bar for 
adding the marker was a high one. Here Miss Y had been asked by Santander to explain 
why the money was in her account. She first said that this was expected from a friend that 
owed her money, and then that it was from her brother repaying part of a loan. She had also 
mentioned it was a wedding gift. She told Santander she didnt know how her brother 
obtained the funds and she later said that he had earned it selling watches. And that she 
wasnt expecting it. Miss Y had told our investigator that she provided contradictory 
information because she had recently lost her father and got married and wasnt thinking 
straight. And that her brother had said of the money just to keep it. Our investigator thought 
that the grounds for the marker had been met and Miss Y hadnt been able to give a reliable 
explanation now of why she had his money.
Miss Y didnt agree and said that she had said the money was from a friend rather than her 
brother as her natural instinct was to protect him. She doesnt see why her behaviour was 
fraudulent when all she did was receive money into her account. She didnt know it was 
fraudulent. This has affected her whole life and her ability to get an account elsewhere or 
even to sign up for a broadband contract. She asked that she be shown empathy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Miss Y was given the opportunity by Santander to provide evidence that she was entitled to 
this money. So even if she had initially made a poor decision not to give a true account of 
the source she then had the chance to put forward an explanation with evidence. Ive 
listened to a call she had with Santander in which she persisted with her explanation that this 
was money owed to her although she was unable to identify when payments had been made 
from her to her brother other than in April of 2019. I agree with our investigator that she 
hasnt given a reliable explanation of how she came by this money. And her related attempts 
to explain this lead me to conclude on balance that she reasonably knew that this money 
wasnt hers or obtained legitimately. She is responsible for what happened in her account 
and she didnt tell Santander that this was money she wasnt entitled to.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss Y received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Ys account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss Y received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Santander 
at the time.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Miss Y knowingly had fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
It closed her account in line with its terms and conditions and I dont have a basis to require 
it to take any further action. I understand how disappointed Miss Y will be by my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman