DRN-4163975
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered him after 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr C wants his car fully repaired and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
To summarise, in March 2022, Mr C found that his car had been vandalised whilst parked 
overnight. He reported the incident to the police. In July 2022, Mr C made a claim on his 
insurance policy. 
After Admirals approved repairer had assessed the damage and works needed, Admiral 
arranged for Mr Cs car to be inspected by an independent assessor. The assessor didnt 
think the damage was as a result of vandalism. However, he made some recommendations 
regarding limited repair works and a cash-in-lieu settlement.
In October 2022, Admiral wrote to Mr C confirming, in essence, that they werent satisfied 
the damage claimed for was as a result of an insurable event. However, Admiral decided to 
deal with the claim by offering a cash-in-lieu settlement of £295.51, that is, £805.51 less the 
policy excess payable of £510, in line with the recommendations of the independent 
assessor.
Mr C rejected this offer and complained. He was unhappy with the cash-in-lieu figure 
provided and thought Admiral should be covering all the damage to his car. He disagreed 
with the independent assessors report and the way in which the report was carried out.
Admiral rejected Mr Cs complaint, maintaining its position and reiterating that it had relied 
on the opinion of the independent assessor, who was an impartial expert. 
Mr C remained unhappy, so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Admiral 
had reached a fair and reasonable settlement figure, based on the expert evidence. 
Mr C obtained his own independent opinion from another assessor, but ultimately, both 
Admiral and our investigator remained of the same view. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to ask Admiral to pay the settlement figure of £295.51. But I wont 
be asking it to do anything more in respect of this complaint. I appreciate how strongly Mr C 
feels about his complaint, and I understand this will be unwelcome news. Ill explain my 
reasons, focusing on the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont 
refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. 
Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
My role is to decide whether Admiral fairly dealt with, and settled, the claim in line with the 
policy terms and its usual processes.  I can only say it should do something different if I dont 
think thats the case.
Mr Cs policy allows Admiral to decide how to settle a claim, either by repairing a vehicle or 
paying a cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.
Mr C says that Admirals approved repairer could clearly see malicious damage over multiple 
panels of his car bodywork. Mr Cs provided an email from the repairer. But this email 
doesnt give an opinion regarding the cause of damage. It simply confirms that many panels 
were damaged and would require painting to eradicate scratches. The approved repairers 
job is to comment on the condition of the car and outline repair works needed. Its the 
insurers job to determine if a claim is payable and Ive not seen anything to confirm that 
Admiral accepted the damage was something covered under the policy terms.   
Having received the approved repairers estimate, Admiral requested an independent 
assessors opinion. The assessor inspected the car, with Mr C present, and concluded:
On this occasion I see no damage which I would record as vandalism in the normal 
sense. 
In the most I feel that the vehicle would likely respond to a machine polish all over 
with perhaps a paint to the NSR bumper corner where the scratch is through to the 
undercoat. 
I appreciate Mr C strongly disagrees with the report and has questioned the meaning of 
vandalism in the normal sense as well as the professionalism and independence of the 
assessor. I dont know precisely what the assessor meant by vandalism in the normal 
sense. But taking the ordinary, everyday meaning of those words and applying them to the 
assessors task, I think it likely he meant that the condition of Mr Cs car did not match his 
expectation or experience of what malicious damage to a vehicle usually looked like. I can 
see that the assessor was technically qualified and held membership of the appropriate 
industry bodies. So Im satisfied his report should be viewed as expert evidence and I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to rely on his report in deciding how to settle Mr Cs claim in 
October 2022. 
After Mr C rejected Admirals cash settlement figure, Admiral commissioned a desktop 
assessment of the damage to Mr Cs car, based on the initial report from the independent 
assessor and photographs. This report acknowledged that it wasnt possible to date the 
damage to the car or therefore reconcile particular damage as having resulted specifically 
from the reported incident. With that in mind the assessors opinions in respect of malicious 
damage having occurred on the date reported remained neutral. However, the assessor did 
say that the pattern of damage was indicative of having been the result of multiple unrelated 
impacts and contacts. In his view, damage is not reflective of having resulted from a single, 
continuous contact / force as may typically be associated with an act of vandalism.  
Mr C is adamant that the damage to his car is as a result of vandalism. He stresses the fact 
that his car was extensively resprayed in late 2020, and its therefore implausible for his car to have sustained such widespread damage through further wear and tear between then and 
the incident in March 2022. After bringing his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Mr C commissioned his own assessment by an appropriately qualified engineer. Of 
course, this evidence wasnt available to Admiral when it made its claims decision. But as 
part of Mr Cs overall complaint, Ive considered it and Admirals comments on it carefully.
In this report from March 2023, the assessor states:
Following our inspection we can confirm that the vehicle does have damage present 
which could be consistent with a malicious/vandal type attack.
The report goes on to list ten areas of damage that the assessor considers could potentially 
be related to a malicious attack. And he concluded that the rear bumper and tailgate would 
require repainting but he considered  the scratches to other panels would respond to being 
machine polished  an opinion that appears broadly in line with the independent assessors.
In its comments on this report, Admiral noted that the language used was not conclusive and 
simply stated the possibility of vandalism being the cause of damage to Mr Cs car.
In a follow-up letter to the report in May 2023, the engineer commissioned by Mr C sought to 
clarify his earlier opinion, stating:
I would not expect wear and tear to have occurred to the level and number of 
scratches which were present on the vehicle at the time of my inspection in such a 
relatively short period of time after the panels had been repainted. Again, on the 
balance of probability, I would be of the opinion that the scratches detailed within my 
earlier report have most likely been caused maliciously.
It is clear that there isnt consensus across all the reports as to the likely cause of the 
damage to Mr Cs car. Overall, Im inclined to favour the report based on inspection closest 
to the time of incident, that of the independent assessor. And Im very mindful that in his 
original report, the assessor commissioned by Mr C did not conclude that the damage was 
probably caused by vandalism, only that it possibly was.  
In all the circumstances, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably in relying on the evidence 
of the independent assessor when deciding Mr Cs claim. Ultimately, Admiral wasnt satisfied 
the damage claimed for had resulted from an insurable event. Nevertheless, as the policy 
allows, it offered a cash sum to Mr C to conclude matters. I think this was fair.
Finally, I appreciate Mr C has found dealing with Admiral stressful and upsetting. But 
ultimately, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly in dealing with his claim, so Im not asking it to 
do anything more to resolve matters. 
Putting things right
Admiral has dealt with Mr Cs claim by way of a cash settlement of £295.51, in line with the 
independent assessors report. I think this is a fair way to resolve Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mr C the cash 
settlement of £295.51, as outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman