DRN-2439034
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining about Neovision Wealth Management Limited (Neovision), she says 
that one of its appointed representatives (ARs), Providence Wealth Limited (Providence 
Wealth) is responsible for advice she received to make a high-risk, unregulated investment 
that was unsuitable for her circumstances and needs.
What happened
Mrs K had previously invested £40,000 in a separate product, Providence Bonds II Plc, in 
2015, through Independent Portfolio Managers Ltd (IPM). That investment didnt perform 
well, so Mrs K made a complaint about IPM thats since been referred to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The issues raised in that complaint form no part 
of this case.
Regarding the investment involved in this complaint; Mrs K says she was invited by IPM to 
the launch of a mini-bond it was promoting in January 2016. She says it was here that she 
met Ms L, who she believed worked for Providence Financial. Providence Financial was a 
trading name of Providence Wealth. For ease of reference, rather than changing between 
Providence Financial and Providence Wealth, Ill simply be referring to Providence Wealth 
throughout the rest of this decision. 
Mrs K says Ms L then contacted her by telephone a number of times in the following weeks 
to talk about various investment products offered by the Providence Group. The parties have 
both referred to the Providence Group in their submissions and, as I understand it, this is a 
reference to a number of companies of which Providence Global Limited was the parent 
company. For ease of reference, Ive adopted the terminology used by the parties in this 
decision and, when referring to the broader organisation, Ill simply refer to the Providence 
Group hereafter.
In April 2016, Ms L and one of her colleagues, Mr B, visited Mrs K at her home. Mrs K says 
she believed that Mr B worked for Providence Wealth and she was told at the meeting that a 
Providence Investment Funds PCC Limited (PIF) investment was better than the previous 
Providence Bonds II Plc investment shed made. Thats because it was secure and protected 
by the Guernsey financial regulator. 
Mrs K says she told Mr B and Ms L that she and her husband were pensioners, that the 
money being invested represented a large portion of their life savings and that they needed 
the quarterly interest payments to supplement their pensions. Mrs K says it wasnt explained 
that the PIF investment wasnt for retail clients and that it was high-risk.
Mrs K says that she gave Mr B and Ms L a £50,000 cheque for the investment, and that she 
completed forms at the meeting but wasnt given copies of these.
Providence Investment Management International Limited (PIMIL) wrote to Mrs K on 
25 April 2016 to acknowledge her investment and to provide a contract note. Mrs Ks 
£50,000 purchased 500 Providence December 2016 36 Month Quarterly GBP A Preference 
shares in PIF. 
Mrs K was told the investment would produce a return of 12.25% a year with dividends 
payable quarterly. Mrs K says she didnt receive any of the expected income payments, and 
it appears shes lost her money.
Additional background information
Ive mentioned some of the additional documentation weve been provided below, before 
then going on to summarise whats happened in Mrs Ks complaint to date. 
An AR Agreement between The TJM Partnership PLC (TJM) and Providence 
Wealth dated 17 December 2014. As I explain in more detail below, a novation 
agreement was entered into on 6 April 2016. To summarise, the effect of this 
agreement was that, subject to any exceptions provided for in the agreement, all of 
TJMs rights and obligations under the 17 December 2014 AR Agreement with 
Providence Wealth were transferred to Neovision Wealth Management Limited 
(Neovision). 
Promotional literature and a Key Terms document for the investment.
A series of internal emails that cover several issues, including the sale and promotion 
of Providence products.
Mr Bs meeting notes from 6 April 2016 on PIMIL headed paper. The notes were 
signed and dated by Mr B on 13 April 2016. There are two sub-sections to the main 
body of the meeting note, both are typed.
Its noted in the Background section that:
Mr B had met with Mrs K to discuss investing in the Providence Fund.
Mrs K had (previously) invested in a Providence mini-bond.
Mrs K had already been told about the proposed investment in detail, including 
that investors had the comfort of a parent guarantee from Providence Global.
Mrs K had a five-year investment with Santander that had matured, and she was 
looking for an income generating product.
Mrs K had been sent relevant documents to read through before meeting Mr B.
And, amongst other things, it was noted in the Points Clarified section that:
I identified myself and explained that I am an employee of The Providence 
Group which includes Providence Investment Management International 
Limited, the Guernsey-licensed promoter and investment manager of the 
Fund.
I informed the investor/s at the beginning of the meeting that we do not 
provide any financial or legal advice nor recommendations nor can we 
confirm the suitability of 'the fund' for their personal circumstances. I 
explained that I was meeting them as a promotional representative of 
Providence Investment Management International Limited. 
The investors were made aware that any decision to invest was theirs entirely 
and should they feel the need to seek any financial, legal or tax advice prior to 
making any decision then they should contact their IFA, lawyer or other 
advisers.
The investor/s confirmed their full understanding of the scheme particulars, 
supplemental particulars and application form in respect of the fund by signing the application form. 
I have fully explained that 'the fund' and its returns are not guaranteed or 
capital protected and that their money is at risk of capital loss. The risks of the 
fund were explained in full and investor/s confirmed their understanding of 
these risks.

I have obtained a fully completed & signed application form together with valid 
due diligence documentation. In addition to this we have confirmed via the 
application form the source of funds and the investor's source of wealth. The 
investors were given the opportunity to complete the application form 
however they asked that I complete it and they confirmed the accuracy of the 
information contained in the application form prior to signing it.
Mrs Ks PIF investment application form. This was signed by Mrs K on 6 April 2016 
and it records the financial adviser/introducer as Mr B of Providence Wealth. Mr B 
signed the form on 7 April 2016. The form records the source of the investment 
monies as retirement savings (5 year Santander investment matured) and the 
source of Mrs Ks wealth as family savings and investment over 40 years.
Mrs Ks verification documents. A council tax bill and a passport, both of which were 
verified by Mr B on 6 April 2016. Mr B signed a stamp on the documents to record 
that they were a true copy of the original documentation and included his title Private 
Client Team and Providence Wealth email address. 
An Individual Application Checklist dated 7 April 2016 on Providence Wealth paper. 
This records the client as Mrs K and the consultant as Mr B.
An email dated 14 April 2016 from Ms M of Providence Wealth to Lumiere Fund 
Services (Lumiere) regarding Mrs Ks investment. Lumiere appear to have carried 
out the administration involved in setting up the investment. Mr B was copied into this 
email and it says that:
Please find attached documents for a new investment of £50,000. 
Please let me know when ok to send originals to you.
The email footer explains that Providence Financial is a trading name of Providence 
Wealth (FCA number 713886) and is an AR of TJM who are authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA number 498199).
An email from Mr B (using a Providence Wealth email address and with a similar 
footer to that mentioned immediately above) to Lumiere dated 14 April 2016. This 
was in response to a request for further information about the source of Mrs Ks 
investment monies and Mr B explained that:
The funds have been generated from her husband's long careerover the 
years [Mrs K] has made investments with the family savings.
A letter from Mr B to Mrs K dated 17 May 2016 on Providence  Wealth paper. The 
footer of the letter explains that Providence Financial is a trading name of Providence 
Wealth and is an AR of TJM. The letter says that new Providence literature was 
being enclosed and asks Mrs K to call to discuss insurance and other fund options. 
The documents stated to be enclosed included information about Providence, Key 
Terms, Brazil Outlook, factoring with Providence and an application form. Mr B confirmed that hed be in contact in a few days to discuss any questions.
As Mrs K believes Mr B and Ms L were representatives of Providence Wealth, she 
complained about what had happened to TJM.
TJM didnt accept Mrs Ks complaint and said, amongst other things, that:
Direct sales had been conducted for some time before the AR Agreement and were 
outside of the Agreement.
Mrs K was at all times a client of the Guernsey-based Providence Europe, which had 
several subsidiaries, including PIMIL and PIF.
Email correspondence shows that it was understood that all sales would be 
conducted with permissions from the Guernsey Financial Services Commission 
(GFSC), according to its rules and under passporting rights enjoyed at the time that 
allowed the PIF investment to be marketed in the UK.
It wasnt responsible for the Providence Groups advertising or marketing; its role was 
to review the proposed UK marketing to be undertaken by Providence Wealth.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ks complaint. The investigator said we could look 
into the complaint and that it should be upheld as the investment was unsuitable for Mrs K. 
The investigator also said that Mr B gave Mrs K advice on the investment while representing 
Providence Wealth and, as Providence Wealth was authorised to advise on investments 
under the AR Agreement, TJM was responsible for this advice. 
TJM didnt agree with the investigator, it said that:
As an existing investor in the mini-bonds, Mrs K was familiar with the Providence 
Group and IPM. If it wasnt for IPM, the investment wouldnt have been made. 
With Mrs Ks investment, Providence Wealth was engaged in activities for which TJM 
hadnt accepted responsibility in writing. And TJM shouldnt be held liable for 
anything resulting from those activities under section 39 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act (FSMA).
The business carried on by Providence Wealth wasnt assigned to it as part of TJM's 
business, nor was it carried on for TJM's benefit.
It hadnt received any commission for the sale of Mrs Ks investment.
An ombudsman reviewed the TJM complaint and issued a provisional decision in March 
2020. This said we could look into the complaint and that it should be upheld. Further, that:
Mr B was at all times acting for Providence Wealth as an AR of TJM.
Providence Wealth was involved in arranging Mrs Ks investment and Mr B advised 
Mrs K on the investment. And by advising on the PIF investment and/or helping to 
arrange that investment, Providence Wealth was carrying out a regulated activity.
The acts complained about included business for which TJM had accepted 
responsibility. TJM had authorised Providence Wealth to carry out the activities of 
arranging and advising on investments. 
From December 2014 the AR Agreement terms applied in full.
The advice Mrs K received to make the investment wasnt suitable for her. 
If advice hadnt been given, the case would still have been upheld as the investment 
shouldnt have been promoted to Mrs K in the first place.
TJM should redress Mrs K so as to put her back into the position shed have been in 
if the investment hadnt been made.Following the ombudsmans provisional decision, we were provided with a Transfer of 
Agreement document (hereafter the novation agreement) dated 6 April 2016 this stated, 
amongst other things, that:
In consideration of Providence Wealth Limited ("the Company") agreeing to enter 
into the appointed representative agreement ("the Agreement") with The TJM 
Partnership PLC ("the Outgoing Principal") on 17th December 2014, a copy of which 
is attached to this letter, we the Outgoing Principal now wish to transfer all our rights, 
obligations and liabilities under the Agreement to TJM Wealth Management Ltd ("the 
Incoming Principal") on the terms set out below:

With effect from the date of this agreement ("the Effective Date"):
We transfer all our rights and obligations under the Agreement to the Incoming 
Principal except as provided below.
The Incoming Principal will perform the Agreement and be bound by its terms in 
every way as if it were the original party to it in place of us.
The Company will perform the Agreement and be bound by its terms in every way as 
if the Incoming Principal were the original party to it in place of us.

The Agreement will in all other respects continue on its existing terms.
This document was signed by representatives from all of Providence Wealth, TJM and TJM 
Wealth Management Ltd (TJM Wealth). TJM Wealth is a separate legal entity to TJM. TJM 
Wealth later became known as Attanta Limited (Attanta) and its now known as Neovision. 
For ease of reference, rather than changing between TJM Wealth, Attanta and Neovision, Ill 
simply be referring to Neovision throughout the rest of this decision.
We were also sent an email dated 8 June 2016 from Neovision to Providence Wealth. This 
explains that, with immediate effect, Neovision was suspending all of Providence Wealths 
permissions to work within the scope of Neovisions UK regulatory license for a period of 28 
days. This was due to Neovision becoming aware of a material change in Providence 
Wealth's group company circumstances.
Alongside the novation agreement, solicitors for TJM made further submissions. Neovisions 
asked for TJMs solicitors submissions to be taken into account in this complaint. And, 
amongst other things, TJMs solicitors said that:
With effect from 6 April 2016, TJM novated the AR Agreement to Neovision.
The correspondence shows that the terms of the promotions were still under 
discussion in June 2016. So, promotion wasnt an activity for which TJM had 
accepted responsibility by April 2016. 
The AR agreement was suspended on 8 June 2016 and was later terminated. 
The ombudsman sought to characterise the actions of Mr B that were beyond the 
scope of the AR Agreement as going not to "what' was authorised but to "how" such 
matters were carried out within that authorisation. The distinction was referred to in 
the Court of Appeal decision in Anderson v Sense Network Limited, but it doesnt 
apply in the manner the ombudsman suggested in his provisional decision.
None of the activities complained of were authorised by TJM at the material time. 
Alternatively, the only activity which mightve been authorised was promotion. It would be a misapplication of the "what/how distinction to say that as the 
regulated activity of promotion is authorised, that separate regulated activities 
undertaken are part of the "how" of the promotion. 
The "what/how distinction cant apply to bring advice and arrangement within the 
scope of what was authorised by TJM. Advising and arranging go beyond the 
methodology of promotion. Theyre separate, substantive activities to be assessed in 
light of "what was authorised.
Mr Bs 6 April 2016 meeting note says that no advice was given. The absence of a 
Fact Find and other advice related documentation is consistent with this.
Nothing Providence Wealth did constituted arranging. And the act of arranging also 
wasnt causative of the alleged loss as it had no impact on Mrs K's decision to invest.
Mr B's alleged activities of advising or arranging cant be linked to any promotion by 
Providence Wealth.
The AR Agreement limits the arrangement to being a statutory AR relationship and 
makes it clear that vicarious liability doesnt apply. 
In the absence of evidence that Mrs K wasnt a high net worth investor, its not open 
to us to conclude that the promotion of the investment was inappropriate. But even if 
it was inappropriate, this doesnt mean that the promotion was causative of the loss.  
After the novation agreement was reviewed, Neovision was identified as the correct 
respondent. So, the complaint against TJM was closed and a new complaint was set up 
against Neovision. In response to Mrs Ks complaint, Neovisions said that:
It has no records of Mrs Ks investment and wasnt required to hold such records. 
Mrs K wasnt a client of it, TJM or Providence Wealth.
Mrs K was a client of PIMIL, and she recollects the representatives as being from the 
Guernsey firm. 
Mrs L worked for Providence Group in a Corporate Social Responsibility role and 
Mr B worked for PIMIL as a sales executive. 
It agreed to become Providence Wealths principal on 6 April 2016. 
The FCA register records Providence Wealth as an AR of TJM until 17 May 2016.
The purpose of the AR Agreement was to facilitate marketing and not client sales.
It hadnt authorised any sales activity; sales activity was outside of the AR Agreement 
and was conducted in Guernsey under passporting rights with the GFSC. This was 
fully disclosed and understood between the parties.
By April 2016, Neovision hadnt signed off any financial promotions, email signatures 
or business stationery for Providence Wealth. 
Mrs Ks said special underwriting was required. Neovision wasnt a part of this and all 
sales were conducted directly with Guernsey under GFSC permissions.
By 6 April 2016, Mr B wasnt yet appointed to a control function with Neovision. 
Mr B wasnt an authorised representative of Neovision until 5 May 2016 and theres 
no evidence that he was purporting to represent Neovision at the relevant time.
Even if the sale was conducted by Mr B under a FCA AR Agreement, it couldnt have 
been done through Neovisions Agreement as he wasnt registered with it.
Neovision isnt responsible for someone who didnt represent it and who wasnt 
authorised by it.
Mrs K was at the January 2016 event at the invitation of IPM. IPM facilitated 
Providences range of mini-bonds and was retained to promote Providence 
Investment Managements funds and find new investors. 
Mrs K couldve made a claim to the FSCS about IPM. 
Neovision was sent a copy of the ombudsmans March 2020 provisional decision against 
TJM. An investigator then issued a view on Mrs Ks complaint against Neovision. He concluded that Neovision was the correct respondent to the complaint, that the complaint 
was one we could consider and that the complaint should be upheld as Neovision was 
responsible for the unsuitable advice Mrs K had received. 
Neovision didnt agree with the investigator and, amongst other things, said that:  
TJMs (and subsequently Neovisions) role was that of advising on Providence 
Wealths marketing activities and compliance training for London staff. 
Theres no requirement that the authorisation of an AR be held exclusively within a 
formal AR Agreement. 
Correspondence shows that the scope of Providence Wealth's authority was far more 
limited than the areas set out in the AR Agreement for which TJM expected to 
provide authority.
The AR Agreement sets out the regulated activities that TJM "currently expects", as 
at the date of the agreement, to make available to Providence Wealth. But this wasnt 
an acceptance by TJM of responsibility for Providence Wealth undertaking those 
regulated activities, it was a statement of expectation. And the actual authorisation 
was a matter for subsequent discussion.  
Providence Wealth wasnt authorised under the AR Agreement to advise or to deal in 
investments. This can be seen from an email TJM sent to Lumiere on 15 June 2016 
which says:
"As has been confirmed previously by Providence Guernsey, they are 
responsible for all sales under their licence with the GFSC. TJM's role is 
limited to Financial promotions and marketing within the UK, which as you are 
aware from our previous correspondence on the matter is currently 
suspended."
Any alleged advice or arrangement didnt take place through Providence Wealth 
under the AR Agreement, but was through the auspices of Providence in Guernsey.
That this was the parties intention can be seen from email correspondence between 
TJM and Lumiere. Correspondence between those parties also shows that, as at 
January 2016, promotion by Providence Wealth wasnt yet authorised. 
Promotion was authorised under the AR Agreement but, by 6 April 2016, promotion 
wasnt an activity for which TJM or Neovision had accepted responsibility within the 
meaning of section 39(1) of the FSMA 2000.
Mr Bs 6 April 2016 meeting note was on PIMIL paper and was from PIMILs records. 
The meeting note says that Mr B had explained he was meeting Mrs K as a 
promotional representative of PIMIL. And that Mrs K had been informed that Mr B 
wouldnt be giving advice on the suitability of the investment. So, even if Providence 
Wealth was authorised to promote in April 2016, any advising or arranging in this 
complaint cant be linked to a promotion by Providence Wealth.   
PIMIL was authorised to operate in the UK. The authorisation was as a third country 
Alternative Investment Fund Manager (AIFM) pursuant to article 58 of the 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013. Registration as a third 
country AIFM isnt something shown in the FCA register. The third country AIFM 
registration was to market in the UK. PIMIL operated under the Guernsey licence 
save for certain marketing that took place in London. 
It was PIMILs responsibility to ensure its regulated activities in the UK were properly 
authorised.
Promotion wasnt an activity TJM had accepted responsibility for by 6 April 2016 and 
the FCA register says Mr B wasnt authorised until 5 May 2016. So, the only basis on 
which Mr B couldve met with Mrs K was as a representative of PIMIL.Mrs K had invested in a Providence Bond previously, so its fair to assume that no 
advice was needed as she knew more about the investment than a first-time investor.
Under DISP 2.3.3 of the FCA Handbook, and section 39(1) of the FSMA, TJM may 
only be held liable for the activities of Providence Wealth for which it had accepted 
responsibility. This point has been upheld in Court cases including Anderson v Sense 
Network Limited. TJM hadnt accepted responsibility for promotion, advice, arranging 
or other actions of Providence Wealth at the time of the 6 April 2016 meeting.
The documents from Deloitte that wed provided to Neovision included no reference 
to Providence Wealth. The company administering the investment was PIMIL.
What Ive decided  and why
jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint. 
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the FCAs Handbook.
The key issue I must address is whether Neovision can be held responsible for the alleged 
actions of Providence Wealth. 
The investment complained about was made in April 2016. This followed on from Mrs Ks 
meeting with Mr B on 6 April 2016. On that date Mrs K signed an application form, had 
identity documents verified by Mr B and provided a £50,000 cheque for the investment.
According to the FCA register, Providence Wealth was an AR of TJM from 14 August 2015 
to 17 May 2016 and an AR of Neovision from 5 April 2016 to 4 July 2016. As mentioned 
previously, a novation agreement was entered into on 6 April 2016. The effect of this 
agreement was that, subject to any exceptions provided for in the agreement, all of TJMs 
rights and obligations under the 17 December 2014 AR Agreement with Providence Wealth 
were transferred to Neovision.
The FSMA 2000 Section 22 (Regulated Activities) provides that: 
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b) in the case of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility)."Exemption of ARs
The FSMA says under Article 19, The general prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is  
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Section 39 of the FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it 
says:
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person)    
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which 
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
Further that:
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in the FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals in investments. 
I think that the issue of whether the principal, Neovision, is responsible for the alleged 
actions of its AR, Providence Wealth, can be resolved by considering the following three-
stages:
Step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of.
Step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated activities or ancillary thereto. 
Step 3 - consider whether the principal firm was responsible for those activities by 
reason of section 39 of the FSMA 2000, agency or vicarious liability.
step 1  identify the specific acts being complained about?
Mrs Ks complaint is that she purchased 500 preference shares in PIF for £50,000 and that 
the investment hasnt performed as expected. Mrs Ks complaint encompasses Providence Wealth promoting, arranging and advising her on the investment. Mrs K says this resulted in 
an investment being made that was unsuitable for her.
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated activities or ancillary thereto;
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the RAO). The units in a collective investment scheme (CIS) are specified as 
investments (article 81). Advising on the merits of buying or selling these investments is a 
specified activity (article 53). So is arranging deals in investments (article 25).
Advising on the merits of investing in UCISs is a regulated activity our service has 
jurisdiction to look at. Arranging such investments is also a regulated activity. 
The investment being complained about appears to have many of the qualities of an UCIS 
and thats how it was described in the promotional material. So, Im satisfied that by either 
advising Mrs K on this investment and/or helping her arrange it, Providence Wealth wouldve 
been carrying out a regulated activity.
I think its clear from the evidence referred to above that Providence Wealth was involved in 
arranging Mrs Ks investment. I say that because its representative, Mr B, appears to have 
been integrally involved in arranging the investment; Mr B met with Mrs K to discuss the 
investment, assisted with the completion of the application form, verified documents and was 
given a £50,000 cheque by Mrs K for the investment. 
Ive also considered whether Mr B advised Mrs K on her investment. Im conscious that as 
Mrs K attended a launch event for a different unregulated investment, it may well be that she 
was attracted to investments offering a potentially high return. The investment Mrs K made 
was an esoteric, high-risk and unregulated investment. Ive seen nothing to suggest she was 
a particularly knowledgeable or sophisticated investor and, on balance, I think its unlikely 
she wouldve committed to make the investment without advice from Mr B during their 
meeting.
Ive not seen evidence of Mr B having followed a formal advice process. So, for example, 
Ive not seen a copy of a Fact Find or suitability letter, but the absence of these documents 
doesnt mean advice wasnt given. The Background section of Mr Bs 6 April 2016 meeting 
notes indicate that he discussed investing in the fund with Mrs K and it appears that this 
included a discussion about her financial circumstances and investment objectives. 
From what Mrs K says, it appears she was actively pursued about making the investment 
after attending an event in January 2016 and this culminated with the meeting with Mr B in 
April 2016. During which, on Mrs Ks own evidence, she received advice about the 
investment that resulted in her proceeding to make the investment.
The regulated activity of advising on investments is defined in article 53 of the RAO. Im 
satisfied Mrs K was an investor or potential investor. And, after having carefully considered 
all of the evidence including Mr Bs meeting notes and Mrs Ks testimony about the sale of 
the investment, I think its most likely that discussions went beyond what wouldve been 
needed to complete a truly non-advised sale and that Mr B advised Mrs K on the investment.
So, taking everything into account, on balance, Im satisfied Mr B carried out the regulated 
activities of arranging and advising on investments on behalf of Providence Wealth. These 
activities fall within our jurisdiction as set out at DISP 2.3.1.Im also satisfied from the evidence Ive referenced above that Providence Wealth was 
involved in promoting the investment to Mrs K. While promoting investments isnt specifically 
listed in the RAO as a regulated activity, Im satisfied it was essentially part of and/or 
ancillary to the activities of advising and/or arranging the investments that Providence 
Wealth engaged in.
At the relevant time the FCA Handbook definition of a financial promotion noted that:
(1) an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity that is communicated 
in the course of business... 
Further, in the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) section 8.23.2G, the regulator says that:
Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make financial promotions 
in the course of or for the purposes of carrying on that activity
And, as an ancillary activity to that of advising and/or arranging Mrs Ks investment, Im 
satisfied a complaint about promoting the investment by Providence Wealth would also be 
within our jurisdiction to consider as set out in DISP 2.3.1R. As such, Im satisfied that its 
also appropriate for me to consider later in this decision whether the promotion was 
conducted in line with the rules and regulations at the relevant time.
step 3 - consider whether the principal firm was responsible for those activities by reason of 
section 39 of FSMA, agency or vicarious liability.
As set out above, DISP 2.3.3G says that:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility)."
And section 39 (3) of FSMA says that:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, I need to consider whether the activities conducted by Providence Wealth for Mrs K were 
activities for which Neovision is responsible. And, in assessing responsibility by way of 
section 39 of the FSMA 2000, I also have to consider were the activities done in the carrying 
on of business for which Neovision has accepted responsibility in writing.  
Neovision says that it isnt responsible for the sale of the investment, or for any advice given 
in respect of this. Amongst other things, its been submitted that:
From 6 April 2016 Neovision didnt authorise any sales activity at all. And any sales 
activity conducted was outside of the AR Agreement and was conducted by 
Providence in Guernsey under its regulatory passporting rights with the GFSC. 
Mr B wasnt an authorised representative of Neovision until 5 May 2016 and theres 
no evidence that he was representing Neovision in April 2016.
The AR agreement was to assist Providence Wealth in marketing, not in direct client 
sales. By 6 April 2016 promotion wasnt an activity for which TJM or Neovision had 
accepted responsibility. But, in any eventuality, Mr B's alleged activities of advising or 
arranging cant be linked to any promotion by Providence Wealth.
Neovision says that PIMIL was authorised to operate in the UK as an AIFM pursuant to 
article 58 of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013. And that the third 
country AIFM registration was to market in the UK. Neovisions explained that PIMIL 
operated under the Guernsey licence save for certain marketing that took place in London. 
But to be clear, even if PIMIL did have authorisation as a third country AIFM, that doesnt 
mean that Neovision wasnt responsible for the specific activities this complaint concerns as 
Providence Wealths principal. And the question Im considering in this section isnt whether 
PIMIL was responsible, or even whether PIML was also responsible, for the activities in 
question but rather, whether Neovision is.
Further, even if business through until January 2016 had been effected solely by Providence 
in Guernsey, and under its regulatory passporting rights with the GFSC, thats not 
determinative of this also having happened in Mrs Ks case some months later. So, Ive got 
to carefully consider all of the evidence thats been provided in relation to Mrs Ks case 
before deciding which firm, and in what capacity, I think effected the activities complained 
about. And what Im considering here is whether Neovision is responsible for those activities 
by reason of section 39 of the FSMA 2000, agency or vicarious liability.
By 6 April 2016 Providence Wealth was an AR of Neovision. This is confirmed by the FCA 
register record and its also shown from the contents of the 6 April 2016 novation agreement.
Mr B wasnt approved for CF30 status with Providence Wealth until after Mrs Ks investment 
was made. Neovision has also highlighted that Mr B wasnt one of its authorised 
representatives until 5 May 2016 and that theres no evidence that he was purporting to 
represent it at the relevant date. The contents of the FCA register are one indicator of who 
was acting for which company, but this has to be viewed in the context of the wider evidence 
available. So, the FCA register entry for Mr B doesnt necessarily mean that he wasnt, in 
practice, operating for Providence Wealth at an earlier date than the register records suggest 
and, as Ive explained below, I think the evidence clearly shows he was.
Mrs Ks said that Mr B was part of Providence Wealths Private Client team, and that she 
understood she was dealing with employees of Providence Wealth. Neovision doesnt agree 
with Mrs Ks recollections about this. Its highlighted that Mr Bs meeting note for the 6 April 
2016 meeting records that hed explained he was meeting Mrs K as a promotional 
representative of PIMIL. 
There are two sub-sections to the main body of the meeting note. The first section, titled 
Background, is the shorter of the two and its personalised to Mrs K. The second section, 
titled Points Clarified, isnt personalised; so, Mrs K isnt named in that section and reference 
is simply made in general terms to what investors or investor/s had been told or had said. 
Asterisks have been added to two bullet-points in the second section, this appears to be 
because information relating to these bullet-points is mentioned in the Background section. 
The meeting note wasnt signed by Mr B until 13 April 2016. 
On balance, I think its most likely from the format and content of the Points Clarified section 
that this part of the note contains standard templated wording. This doesnt mean that 
some, or all, of the bullet-points in that section werent discussed with Mrs K. But I do think it 
makes the contents of this section less credible when viewed alongside some of the other 
evidence from the point of sale. And this includes some of the documents I refer to below 
that were completed either during, or in very close proximity to, the 6 April 2016 meeting.I think that the contents of Mrs Ks application form and the documents Mr B verified support 
Mrs Ks testimony that she understood she was dealing with a Providence Wealth employee. 
The application form Mrs K signed on 6 April 2016 records the financial adviser/introducer as 
Mr B of Providence Wealth. And on documents that Mr B signed and dated for verification 
purposes on that same date, hes recorded his title Private Client Team and his Providence 
Wealth email address. 
Mrs Ks said that, as she wasnt a high net worth individual, Mr B had to get special 
authorisation before her application could proceed and Neovisions highlighted it wasnt part 
of this process. Its not clear to me whether Mr B did, in fact, end up seeking special 
authorisation from anyone else but, if he did, I think its most likely this wouldve been from 
someone at the firm he was representing  Providence Wealth. And I dont think its 
surprising that Neovision wasnt involved in this process.
So, while the Points Clarified section of Mr Bs 6 April 2016 meeting note states that I 
informed the investor/sthat I was meeting them as a promotional representative of 
Providence Investment Management International limited, for the reasons Ive explained 
above I dont think its most likely that Mrs K was told this. Im satisfied that its most likely 
she was told, and understood, that she was meeting with Mr B in his capacity as an 
employee of Providence Wealth.
This also appears to be consistent with a letter Mr B sent to Mrs K on 17 May 2016, shortly 
after the investment complained about was made. In the letter Mr Bs recorded as being in 
the Private Client Team and his Providence Wealth email address is given. The footer of the 
letter also explains that Providence Financial is a trading name of Providence Wealth and is 
an AR of TJM. 
Other documentation weve received also, in my opinion, further supports the finding that Mr 
B was acting for Providence Wealth and not PIMIL in his dealings with Mrs K. This includes 
an Individual Application Checklist dated 7 April 2016 on Providence Wealth paper, 
showing Mrs K as the client and Mr B as the consultant. And the email correspondence 
Providence Wealth sent to Lumiere on 14 April 2016 alongside the documents for Mrs Ks 
investment, including an email from Mr B, with it being explained in the footer of the emails 
that Providence Financial was a trading name of Providence Wealth and an AR of TJM. 
From the evidence Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied that Providence Wealth was involved 
in making arrangements for Mrs Ks investment to take place. Im also satisfied that Mr B 
was acting for Providence Wealth, and with its full knowledge, in his dealings with Mrs K. 
And that Mrs K understood she was dealing with a representative of Providence Wealth in 
her dealings with Mr B. 
Further, and as Ive mentioned previously, having carefully considered all of the evidence I 
think its most likely that discussions went beyond what wouldve been needed to complete a 
truly non-advised sale and that Mr B advised Mrs K on the investment.
As the FCA register and the novation agreement show, Providence Wealth was an AR of 
Neovision when Mr B met with Mrs K on 6 April 2016. I appreciate that with the novation 
agreement only taking effect from 6 April 2016 not all records, such as Providence Wealths 
stationery and email footers, wouldve been updated on that same date to reflect that its 
principal had changed from TJM to Neovision. But this doesnt alter the fact that Providence 
Wealth was, from 6 April 2016, Neovisions AR. 
Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that Providence Wealth was 
acting in any capacity other than as AR of Neovision in its dealings with Mrs K. And, having reviewed all of the evidence, Im satisfied that the weight of evidence supports the 
conclusion that Providence Wealth, and in its capacity as an AR of Neovision, carried out the 
regulated activities of arranging and advising on the PIF investment Mrs Ks complained 
about and that it also promoted that investment to her. 
Under section 39 of the FSMA, the principal is required to accept responsibly for that 
business, which is a reference back to business of a prescribed description. However, the 
case of Anderson makes it clear the words part of in section 39 allow a principal firm to 
accept responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In 
other words, TJM (and later Neovision) was able to appoint Providence Wealth as an AR 
and limit the scope of the regulated activities it could carry out and that it would be 
responsible for.
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson 
case, which set out that only restrictions on what generic business could be conducted 
would limit the principals responsibility. In contrast, restrictions on how that business is to 
be conducted dont limit a principals responsibility. In other words, a principal cant avoid 
responsibility for activities it authorised an appointed representative to carry out just because 
those activities werent carried out in the way it wanted them to be.
This means that I can consider this complaint against Neovision if the acts complained about 
include business for which it accepted responsibility in writing. As part of my consideration of 
this, Ive carefully reviewed the scope of the authority provided to Providence Wealth by 
means of the AR Agreement.
Weve been provided with a contract, the AR Agreement, between TJM and Providence 
Wealth dated 17 December 2014. The agreement incorporated the contract deed and 
schedules. As referenced previously, a novation agreement was signed by representatives 
of all of TJM, Neovision and Providence Wealth on 6 April 2016. And the effect of this was 
that, subject to any exceptions provided for in the agreement, all of TJMs rights and 
obligations under the AR Agreement with Providence Wealth were transferred to Neovision 
from 6 April 2016 onwards.
Clause 2.1 of the Agreement says that:
The Company shall provide FCA authorisation to the Appointed Representative so 
that it may conduct certain regulated business 
Clause 2.2. adds that:
The Engagement is envisaged to commence on the Commencement Date which 
shall be date approval and authorization is granted by the FCA to the Appointed 
Representative so that it may conduct certain regulated business and shall continue, 
(subject to the provisions of clauses 7 & 8 and the remaining terms of this 
Agreement) until such time it is terminated by either party giving the other not less 
than 2 months' prior written notice.
Clause 2.3 says:
Pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the company offers the Appointed Representative 
permission to work within the scope of the Companys UK regulatory licence. The regulated 
activities that the Company currently expects to make available to the Appointed 
Representative are:
Advising on investments (except on Pension Transfers and Pension Opt Outs);Arranging (bringing about) deals in investments;
Dealing in investments as agent; and
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
The Company agrees that the Appointed Representative can perform those regulated 
activities that are relevant to the Appointed Representatives engagement, subject to the 
terms of this Agreement.
And clause 12.1 says that:
This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement and understanding of the parties in 
relation to this engagement and appointment of the Appointed Representative as an 
Appointed Representative of the company
Neovision says, amongst other things, that it cant be responsible for the advising or 
arranging activities complained about because the wording of the AR Agreement was 
framed to give the future expectation of what would be authorised (currently expects) as 
opposed to the current position of what was authorised. 
The AR Agreement appears to be the only agreement in place at the time. TJMs solicitors 
submitted, in response to the ombudsmans provisional decision on the TJM case, that The 
actual activities that were authorised were the subject of separate discussions and were 
more limited. The substantive terms of the AR Agreement then applied to those activities 
that were actually authorised. But having carefully considered all of the evidence, including 
the email evidence thats been referred to, I dont think that the evidence supports TJMs 
solicitors and/or Neovisions submissions on this point. 
The agreement has been formally drafted into a contract, with an offer of permission to work 
within the scope of the principals UK regulatory licence, and this offer then appears to have 
been accepted with the agreement being signed by both TJM and Providence Wealth.
Ive noted what Neovisions said about the use of the phrase currently expects. But, in my 
view, that language could just as easily mean that whats stated in the agreement may 
change in the future, or that certain permissions might subsequently be curtailed. So, I dont 
agree with Neovision that this wording alone shows that these werent permissions already 
in place.
Further, there are indications in the wording of clause 2.3 of the Agreement that, in my 
opinion, supports the conclusion that the Agreement was a current agreement:
The Company agrees that the Appointed Representative can perform those 
regulated activities that are relevant to the Appointed Representative's engagement, 
subject to the terms of this Agreement.

As an Appointed Representative of the Company, the Appointed Representative has 
regulatory coverage to provide the above-regulated activities only from the UK. (My 
emphasis) 
The language used doesnt indicate to me that theres a future intention for these 
permissions. Were that the case then, for example, Id expect the parts of clause 2.3 Ive 
quoted above to say something like will be able to perform rather than can perform and 
will have instead of has.
Theres nothing further within clause 2.3, or shortly thereafter, that qualifies what currently 
expects means or when, if it was a future authorisation, it would come into effect. And I also think its notable that in the email correspondence in which Providence Wealth had its 
authorisation suspended, theres no reference or suggestion that it didnt have the 
authorisation that the agreement detailed, or else that there was any pending authorisation 
to come. 
Further, if Providence Wealth hadnt been authorised, thered have been no need to suspend 
its authorisation. Ive noted that TJMs solicitors, in response to the provisional decision on 
the TJM complaint, contended that the suspension was done for completeness. But Ive 
seen no correspondence that supports that position and Im not currently persuaded by that 
submission. 
Having considered everything carefully, it doesnt seem most likely to me that the AR 
Agreement was signed by all parties based on what TJM expected to authorise at some 
unnamed date in the future. So, on balance, Im satisfied that the 17 December 2014 AR 
Agreement was the Agreement in effect when Providence Wealths representative advised 
and arranged the investment Mrs Ks complained about. And I dont think its most likely that 
currently expects refers to any future authorisation. 
So, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that currently expects did refer to 
a future authorisation. However, even if Im wrong about this and even if there was a future 
authorisation to come, this doesnt mean that the current AR Agreement (by which I mean 
the 17 December 2014 AR Agreement) wasnt still valid and indicative of what was (then) 
currently authorised in the meantime.
To be clear, in my view the AR Agreement shows that there was a contract which permitted 
Providence Wealth to carry on business of a prescribed description. And Im satisfied that in 
the AR Agreement TJM (and from 6 April 2016 Neovision) authorised Providence Wealth to 
carry out (and accepted responsibility for) activities which included arranging and advising 
on investments. And Im also satisfied that Providence Wealth was someone for whom, by 6 
April 2016, Neovision had accepted responsibility in writing.
Neovision says that not all of the permissions provided for in the AR Agreement applied 
immediately, but I dont think anything in the Agreement or other evidence Ive seen supports 
that view. The Agreement appears to me to be a valid contract and, based on the 
information currently available to me, I think the terms of the Agreement applied in full before 
6 April 2016.
Ive noted the contents of the email discussions between TJM and Lumiere from January 
2016 that Neovisions referred to. TJM doesnt state in these discussions that there are 
activities that it hadnt authorised Providence Wealth to perform and/or accepted 
responsibility for. Rather, the purpose of the email correspondence appears to be to 
document the key points from an earlier telephone discussion between TJM and Lumiere. 
In my view, the January 2016 email correspondence shows TJM seeking to ensure that it 
understands what, if any, activities being undertaken at that specific point in time were 
being effected under its existing AR Agreement with Providence Wealth and which 
activities were being undertaken in Guernsey. Further, its also clear that TJM understood 
that there would, at a later date be a natural crossover of some of the regulatory 
formalities/responsibilities to Providence Wealth and theres no suggestion in these 
discussions that this wouldve necessitated any further authorisation or acceptance of 
responsibility by TJM that wasnt already provided for in the AR Agreement. 
Neovision also says that correspondence relating to disclaimers shows that agreement 
hadnt been reached on what Providence Wealth was authorised to do by 6 April 2016. And 
Ive carefully considered the contents of all the correspondence weve received relating to the disclaimers, but nothing contained therein alters my opinion that the terms of the AR 
Agreement applied in full before 6 April 2016.
It may be that Mr B and other members of Providence Wealths staff went further than TJM 
and/or Neovision envisaged they would in their activities involving Mrs Ks investment. But 
Im satisfied that this isnt sufficient for Neovision to avoid responsibility for the actions of its 
AR in this case.
Conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied Mr B was involved in the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
Mrs Ks investment and that he was acting for Providence Wealth when he did so. And Im 
satisfied these were activities Providence Wealth was authorised by Neovision to carry out. 
On balance, and taking everything into account, I think Mrs Ks complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction and is one I can consider.
merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to address every 
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Ive mentioned previously, having carefully considered all of the evidence, I think that Mr 
B carried out the regulated activities of arranging and advising on the PIF investment on 
behalf of Providence Wealth. So, Ive gone on to consider whether that investment was 
suitable for Mrs K.
Mrs Ks said shes a saver, and a small, retail investor and that she was attracted to the 
PIF investment as if offered a fixed rate of interest and was guaranteed to be stable. Mrs Ks 
also explained that, prior to investing £40,000 in Providence Bonds II Plc in 2015, her and 
her husband savings, totalling around £190,000, were held:
. . . with name brand retail financial services companies. Before Providence Bonds. 
I had only ever invested in fixed-term and fixed-rate deposits (often called Fixed 
Rate Bonds)I was attracted to these products because they offered a guaranteed, 
fixed rate of interest, as opposed to the risk associated with unit trusts or stock 
market-related products.
From the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing that would give me cause to doubt what 
Mrs Ks said about this. And both the PIF investment application form and the Background 
section of Mr Bs 6 April 2016 meeting notes record the source of funds for the PIF investment as being a matured Santander investment, which seems consistent with what 
Mrs Ks said.
In my view the PIF investment was an unusual holding, operating in a very specific way. And 
it might reasonably be described as a sophisticated and/or complex investment; and could 
suffer significant losses, the nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the 
outset. I consider the holding exposed investors to significant risks such as illiquidity and 
risks inherent in unregulated investments. The investment wasnt subject to regulation in the 
same way as regulated funds. And investors potentially didnt have recourse to the FSCS or 
this service. 
I think the investment would generally be considered esoteric and higher risk. Im satisfied 
that such an investment was unsuitable for Mrs K because it involved a much higher level of 
risk than Mrs K was willing or able to accept. And I think this ought to have been readily 
apparent to Providence Wealth.
Thats because, in my view, Mrs K wasnt a particularly experienced or sophisticated investor 
and she wasnt someone who was willing to expose the monies this complaint concerns to 
any significant degree of risk. And I think that its unlikely shed have wanted to change the 
relatively cautious approach shed previously followed and with money she says was needed 
to generate an income to supplement her and her husbands pension income. 
In reaching this conclusion Im mindful that Mrs K had previously invested money in 
Providence Bonds II Plc in 2015. But Mrs Ks complained elsewhere that these were also 
mis-sold and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to use the Providence Bonds II Plc 
investment to draw the conclusion that Mrs K was somehow a high-risk or speculative 
investor. 
Further, following the 2015 investment around 20% of Mrs Ks savings were held in 
unregulated investments. And Im satisfied that investing a further £50,000 of Mrs Ks 
savings into unregulated investments in 2016 wouldnt have been suitable for Mrs K. 
So, to summarise, based on the evidence available to me, I think its most likely Mrs K 
received advice to invest in the PIF investment from Mr B on 6 April 2016 and Im satisfied 
that investment wasnt suitable for her. 
But even if I thought no advice was given and that Providence Wealth only promoted and 
arranged the investment, my conclusion would still be that this complaint should be upheld. 
Thats because Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive set out below, that the investment shouldnt 
have been promoted to Mrs K by Providence Wealth in any eventuality. And, but for 
Providence Wealth inappropriately promoting the investment to and arranging the 
investment for Mrs K, I think its most likely that Mrs K wouldnt then have effected the 
investment. So, either way, if Neovisions AR had acted as it shouldve done, I dont think 
Mrs K wouldve made the PIF investment. 
The PIF investment appears to have been an UCIS. And, as such, was subject to the 
scheme promotion restriction (s.238 FSMA). Adviser firms had a choice of different sets of 
exemptions from the s.238 restrictions. Relevant exemptions included:
Certified high net worth individuals.
Certified sophisticated investors.
Self-certified sophisticated investors
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs K was ever certified as a high net worth individual or a 
sophisticated investor. Weve also been provided with no evidence that would suggest Providence Wealth ever had any reason to believe that Mrs K was a high net worth 
individual or a sophisticated investor. 
Further, having considered all of the other exemptions that were available at the relevant 
time, alongside all of the evidence weve been provided to date, I dont think that Providence 
Wealth wouldve been able to rely on any of the other exemptions so as to promote the 
investment to Mrs K. In other words, I dont think the investment shouldve been promoted to 
Mrs K in the first place.
There had, previously, been a category 2 exemption whereby a UCIS could be promoted 
under COBS 4.12 if a firm had taken reasonable steps to ensure that the UCIS investment 
was suitable for the person to whom it was being promoted. But that exemption was no 
longer available when the PIF investment was promoted to Mrs K. 
For completeness, even if Neovision had taken reasonable steps to conclude that Mrs K was 
a person to whom it could promote the investment (and Ive seen no evidence that it did 
this), by way of an exemption listed under COBS 4.12 that incorporated some element of 
suitability assessment, I still dont think that the proposed investment shouldve proceeded. 
As I think it ought to have been readily apparent to Providence Wealth that the investment 
wasnt suitable for Mrs K.
In addition to the financial loss that Mrs K has suffered as a result of the PIF investment 
being made, I think that the loss of these monies has also caused Mrs K some distress, and 
I think that its fair for Neovision to compensate her for this as well.
The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Mrs Ks complaint about Neovision. I appreciate its been 
contended that there were other parties involved, for example IPM. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award,
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP
3.7.2R).
And, for the reasons Ive set out at length above, in my opinion Neovision is responsible for 
the investment Mrs K made in the PIF holding and Im satisfied that investment shouldnt 
have occurred.
As such, the starting point is that it would be fair to require Neovision to pay Mrs K 
compensation for the loss shes suffered as a result of its failings. 
Ive carefully considered if theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Neovision to 
compensate Mrs K for her loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable 
in full or in part. And I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Neovision to 
compensate Mrs K to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to its failings.
I accept that it may be the case that other parties mightve some responsibility for initiating 
the course of action that led to Mrs Ks loss. However, Im satisfied that it was the actions of 
Providence Wealth in its capacity as an AR of Neovision, that were ultimately responsible for 
the investment being effected and for the situation in which Mrs K now finds herself. And I 
think that, without the involvement of Providence Wealth in its capacity as an AR of 
Neovision, the investment wouldnt have been made and the loss Mrs Ks suffered couldve 
been avoided. As such, its my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Neovision to 
compensate Mrs K to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered. And, taking into 
account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that Neovisions 
liable to pay to Mrs K.
However, in order to be fair to Neovision, it should have the option of payment of the full 
calculated redress being made contingent upon Mrs K agreeing to assign any claim she may 
have against any other third party involved in the transaction this complaint concerns to 
Neovision. Neovision would need to meet any costs in drawing up such an assignment.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs K as close to the position she would probably now be in if the PIF investment hadnt 
been made.
I think Mrs K wouldve invested her monies differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she wouldve done, but I am satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs K's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Neovision do?
To compensate Mrs K fairly, Neovision must:
Compare the performance of Mrs K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Neovision should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mrs K £500 for the trouble and upset shes suffered. In addition to the financial 
loss that Mrs K has suffered as a result of the problems with her investment, I think 
that the loss of a significant portion of her savings has caused Mrs K distress. And I 
think that its fair for Neovision to compensate her for this as well.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
PIF 
investmentIt appears 
to no longer 
existAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date and this might be zero.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs K agrees to Neovision taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Neovision to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs K that she repays to Neovision any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future.
If Neovision does request such an undertaking from Mrs K then any expenses incurred for 
the drafting of the undertaking should be met by Neovision.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Neovision 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If theres a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Neovision totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs K wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs K's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mrs K wouldve invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer couldve obtained with 
little risk to their capital.
As mentioned above, Neovision has the option of payment of the full calculated redress 
being made contingent upon Mrs K agreeing to assign any claim she may have against any 
other third party involved in the transaction this complaint concerns to Neovision. Neovision 
would need to meet any costs in drawing up such an assignment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above it is my decision that we can consider Mrs Ks complaint 
against Neovision Wealth Management Limited.
It is also my decision that the complaint is upheld and that Neovision Wealth Management 
Limited must pay fair compensation to Mrs K as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman