DRN-3022031
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs N complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc ought not to hold it liable 
for a debt owing under a fixed sum loan given to Mrs N before she passed away.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs N entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi to fund eye surgery 
for her husband, Mr N.
Mr N had surgery but required further treatment which had been offered as part of his 
treatment agreement. Sadly, both Mr and Mrs N passed away in April 2018 before any follow 
up treatment.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs Ns daughter, Miss N, contacted Hitachi to inform it her parents 
had passed away. She also asked whether the loan would need to be repaid because she 
thought that Mr N had not received all of the treatment under his treatment plan.
Hitachi said that the treatment which had been funded by its lending had been provided. It 
said that the follow up treatment was included free of charge, but it was necessary as the 
result of a known surgical outcome which Mr N had accepted in consenting to the treatment. 
As a result, Hitachi said the outstanding loan needed to be repaid from the estate.
As the administrator of the late Mrs Ns estate, Miss N referred the estates complaint to this 
service. In summary she said that she believed that Mr N hadnt received the full treatment 
hed expected and didnt agree with Hitachis decision to expect the balance of the loan to be 
repaid. She also raised issue with Hitachis handling of the matter.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Hitachi to adopt the position it did. She didnt think the 
relevant law  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applied here because certain 
conditions hadnt been met. She also mentioned that she didnt think there was a valid claim 
under section 75 even if other criteria had been satisfied, because the treatment funded by 
the loan had been completed, and the contract had therefore been fulfilled.
Miss N didnt think that was fair. She asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case has 
therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
In representing the late Mrs Ns estate, Miss N has essentially asserted that the contract Mrs 
N entered into to fund Mr Ns treatment was not fulfilled. She says that its therefore unfair to 
expect the lending to be repaid.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is relevant here. It protects consumers 
who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider 
is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA. In the circumstances of this case, Mrs N was the debtor and 
Hitachi was the creditor. However, the supplier, which provided the surgery, entered into an 
agreement with Mr N, not Mrs N. Im satisfied of this because Ive seen treatment consent 
documents as well as terms and conditions which Mr N signed.
Given this, Im satisfied there isnt a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c)  which means section 75 doesnt apply. As a result, I dont find that that the 
estate has a valid claim under section 75. So, I cannot find on whether there was a breach of 
contract between Mr N and the supplier.
I recognise the points Miss N has made about the level of service she received in raising 
queries with Hitachi. 
Hitachi interpreted Miss Ns query about whether the treatment had been completed as a 
complaint as soon as she raised this issue. From what Ive seen, it seems to have made 
prompt enquiries regarding what I consider to be a relatively complex and sensitive situation. 
Nonetheless, I recognise that the circumstances which led to this complaint were borne of 
what must have been a very challenging and upsetting time for Miss N in representing the 
estate, and I extend my sympathies to her. 
Its worth mentioning that Hitachis records show Miss N initially said that the late Mrs Ns 
estate had sufficient funds to settle the lending. Shes recently said thats not actually the 
case. It seems there might have been a miscommunication regarding this, but I think 
Hitachis been clear that it doesnt expect Miss N to pay sums towards the lending personally 
 rather its claim was made to the estate. Id expect Hitachi to engage with Miss N in 
establishing whether or not the estate is capable of settling the lending. 
         
All of that being said, because of what Ive said above about the lack of a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement, Im satisfied that Hitachi isnt responsible or legally answerable 
for the suppliers alleged breach of contract. So, I dont think it was unfair for Hitachi to ask 
the estate to repay the lending it gave Mrs N.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given about, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman