DRN-1549141
Complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in 
this decision, rather than any other business. 
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps store card application gave a brief overview of what PPI was for and what it cost. 
There was a place where Mrs P could sign if she wanted to buy the policy, which could be 
left blank if she didnt want it. Mrs P signed specifically to take out PPI, separately to signing 
the application as a whole. So I think that AXA made Mrs P aware she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs P enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs P chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of Mrs Ps work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover, such as 
for when her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. And it meant Mrs P 
wouldnt have to ask anyone else to pay for her store card if she was off sick or lost her job. 
So the policy could have been useful for Mrs P in case something went wrong. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman