DRN-4147151
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not return £100 that he sent in error, and they 
did not pay him the switch incentive for switching his bank account to them.
What happened
Mr A says he made a payment to a wrong account in error, and he asked HSBC to recall the 
funds for him, but he says they refused. Mr A says they have provided him poor service and 
he has contacted them several times regarding the payment recall, but they still wont refund 
him the payment. He also says HSBC have not paid him the switch incentive for switching 
his bank account to them. Mr A made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said they reviewed the payment and 
regrettably the recipient of the funds is not in the position to return these funds from their 
account. They said that as Mr A paid the recipient from a different bank account in his name 
in their wider group before the payment in question, this suggests Mr A knows the 
beneficiary, and they recommended he should contact them directly. HSBC said certain 
criteria had to be met to receive the switch incentive and as Mr A had opened a bank 
account in their wider group on 20 July 2022 and switched to HSBC on 23 December 2022, 
then he didnt meet the criteria as his account opened in the wider group was opened after 
the criteria date of 1 January 2019. Mr A brought his complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He said looking at the terms of the account, 
its clear that HSBC do not assume responsibility for the payment that customers make in 
error. He said HSBC looked into Mr As request to refund the mistaken £100 transferred.  
however they have stated they are unable to do so as the recipient is not in a position to 
refund the amount. He said Mr A did not meet the criteria for the switch incentive. Mr A 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He asked for me to consider the poor 
service, lack of help, the inconvenience and the number of times he had to contact them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the poor service, the lack of help, the 
inconvenience and the number of times he had to contact HSBC regarding the funds 
transferred in error. As Mr A made a payment in error, this would naturally cause him 
inconvenience to try and get these funds back. I can see that Mr A asked for a payment 
recall in his chat with HSBC on 27 January 2023. This was the same day he made the £100 
transfer in error. But Mr A did not say which payment he wanted to recall on the chat, and 
the chat ended without him telling HSBC this information.
The terms of Mr As account sets out HSBCs position on mistaken payments. Page 26 says 
We wont give a refund but well try to help you recover your money if you ask us to. So 
HSBC are under no obligation to refund this money to Mr A, but they would try and recover 
the money. As the funds were transferred to another HSBC account, then HSBC did not 
need to involve any other banks here. It appears they attempted to recall the £100 for Mr A, 
but the recipient of the funds was not in the position to return these funds from their account. 
HSBC have said they let the recipient of the funds know about this. And although Mr A says 
the recipient of the funds has agreed for HSBC to return the funds from their account, it 
appears that they arent in a position to return the funds from their account. So while I 
understand the impact this has on Mr A, I cant say that HSBC have done anything wrong 
here.
I can see that Mr A has asked HSBC to return the funds on several occasions. But as they 
are not obliged to refund the money to him, then I cant say the multiple contacts Mr A has 
made to them warrants compensation to be paid after HSBC has clearly set out their position 
on this. As Mr A says the beneficiary of the funds have agreed for HSBC to recall the funds, 
then he might want to see if the beneficiary can pay him directly if they have available funds 
to do so. But I cant say that HSBC have acted unreasonably in regards to not refunding Mr 
A the £100 back.
Mr A has said that he didnt receive the switch incentive which was available when he 
switched his bank account from a company in HSBCs wider group to HSBC on 23 
December 2022. Ive looked at this criteria and part of the criteria shows that customers will 
not qualify for the offer if they had opened an account with a specific company in their wider 
group since 1 January 2019. But HSBC have provided information that Mr A opened an 
account with the specific named company in their wider group on 20 July 2022. So Mr A 
would not be eligible for the switch incentive. So it follows I dont require HSBC to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman