DRN-3649132
The complaint
Mr D complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds car was involved in an accident which wasnt his fault. Skyfire decided that it was 
uneconomical to repair. They offered him £3,550 for his cars market value. But Mr D said he 
couldnt buy an equivalent car with that, and he wanted the investigator to research car 
prices to confirm that. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Skyfire had done what we would expect of them. Mr D didnt agree and so his case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr D our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might include 
advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars, which a consumer may bring to us. 
But we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that 
an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices. 
Mr Ds car insurance policy says that Skyfire will pay his cars market value which is:
The cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the accident or loss. This may not be the 
same price you originally paid for your car or the value you declared on the Statement of 
Fact.at the time of the loss.
Mr D thought that his car was worth about £4,500 and said that his own quick research 
showed that he couldnt buy an equivalent to his car for what Skyfire had offered him. He 
was disappointed that the investigator did not do any investigation of his own into that. But 
as Ive said above, thats not our Services role and its for the parties to supply any evidence 
that they think supports their views. I havent seen adverts from Mr D supporting what he 
thought his car was worth. And in any event, we find the trade guides to be more persuasive 
than adverts, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely 
sales figures but, as I mentioned above, cars usually sell for less than the advertised price. 
Ive looked at how Skyfire valued his car. I see that they did follow our established guidance 
for assessing a cars market value at the time of the accident, taking into account his cars 
features and mileage to get the most fair and accurate valuation. The range of valuations 
they obtained from the three trade guides used were £3,550, £3,290, and £3,127. Skyfire 
offered Mr D the highest of those three amounts, so I think that it is reasonable. As a check, 
they also obtained an engineers report . The engineer followed our guidelines too, albeit 
using slightly different trade guides. He recommended a market value of less than the 
£3,550 that Skyfire offered. So I think that their offer was fair. 
  
Skyfire did explain to Mr D the process they used, and what they did and didnt take account 
of and why. I think that was reasonable of them. I see that Mr D was disappointed as he felt 
that this Service has condoned a process he doesnt agree with, but that is the process we 
expect insurers to use and the guidelines are published on our website. 
 
I can understand Mr D being unhappy at this situation because he wasnt to blame for the 
accident. I do think that it is unfortunate that his car was written off through no fault of his 
own. But I think that Skyfire did follow established process in valuing his cars market value, 
so I dont think they did anything wrong and I dont ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
