DRN-3751608
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a battery system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In November 2017, Mr F purchased a battery system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. This was to be attached to an existing solar panel system. Mr F financed the 
purchase through an interest-free fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was repayable 
over ten years. 
In April 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
F to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself through savings on energy bills within the period of 
the loan.
The monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr F or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. We requested 
information from the CMC so that I could make a decision in this case. The CMC did not 
provide this information within a reasonable time, so I issued a provisional decision. This 
pointed out what information we had asked for and why. And that without that information I 
could not reasonably uphold the complaint. The provisional decision provided a further 
month for the CMC to provide the necessary information.
When responding to the provisional decision the CMC provided some energy bills. The CMC 
said it was still trying to obtain FIT statements  and asked for more time to do so. But much 
of the other information has not been provided. So, I still feel unable to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr F and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. For the purpose 
of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue statement of fact 
or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces that second party 
to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Ikano. These include 
the credit agreement and sales contract.
The credit agreement sets out the cash price of the system (£5,000.00), the amount being 
borrowed (£4,900.00), the total charge for credit (£1566.73), the total amount payable 
(£5466.73), the term of the loan (120 months) and the contractual monthly repayments 
(£53.90).
The sales contract is a two-page document which sets out limited information about the 
system and its cost. It did not show any information about the system beyond describing it as 
battery storage system.
Battery system compared to a solar power system
My understanding is that the battery system Mr F bought was attached to his solar panel 
system. That means that Mr F already had a solar panel system at his property. I think it is 
reasonable to assume that he had a good understanding of his solar panel system. 
In simple terms, a battery allows the user to store electricity generated by their solar panels 
for use later (such as after the sun goes down) rather than exporting it to the grid. When 
agreeing to buy the battery system, I think it is reasonable to assume that Mr F understood 
this basic concept, and that the benefit of such a system was that he would use more of the 
electricity generated by the solar panels, and buy less from his electricity supplier. In doing 
so, he would be paying less to his electricity supplier and make a saving compared to what 
he otherwise would have been paying.
Mr F alleges that he was told the savings he made from using the battery system would be 
equal to or more than his monthly loan repayments. I must decide if his testimony is 
plausible and persuasive. To do so, I need certain information about Mr Fs solar panel 
system, his battery system, and his electricity usage. I requested this information, which I 
discuss below.
Insufficient information provided by the CMCI asked the CMC for the following information:
The MCS certificate of the solar system which the battery was connected to (to show 
the installation date of the solar system and its estimated annual electricity 
generation).
A FIT statement or meter reading from shortly before the battery was installed (to 
confirm the actual electricity generation from the solar system).
If only a meter reading was provided, confirmation of whether the export payment 
was based on a deemed export of 50% of electricity generated or based on an export 
meter reading.
The storage capacity of the battery.
An explanation of how the battery works (does it simply store excess electricity for 
use later or is it a smart system that stores power from the battery system and 
exchanges power with the grid to maximise efficiency and generate additional 
income).
If there had been any significant change in electricity usage since installation of the 
solar system or the battery, such as the house being occupied during the day instead 
of just evenings and weekends, additional people living at the property, or new 
appliances or entertainment systems being installed. 
Electricity bills for at least one year after installation of the battery (only electricity bills 
to 16 March 2018 had been provided at that time).
I asked for this information so I could understand:
The solar panel system that was in place prior to the installation of the battery 
system. Essential information required is the installation date and the estimated or 
actual annual electricity generation. This would affect the maximum amount of 
electricity savings Mr F could achieve by installing the battery system. 
Whether installation of the battery system would potentially reduce the FIT income 
Mr F was receiving. That would only be the case if his FIT was paid based on an 
export meter reading. But this is important, because if the battery system reduced his 
FIT income, the savings would have to be higher to offset this and still cover the loan 
repayments.
The battery system itself and how this worked. This would affect the type of benefits 
it could provide (just savings, or savings and income). 
Mr Fs usage of electricity at the property, including the amount of electricity that Mr F 
uses each year, which would affect how much he could potentially save through 
having the battery system installed.
Whether there had been any changes that might affect the potential savings Mr F 
could get from having the system installed. 
The CMC, despite being given between 27 July 2022 and 21 September 2022 to respond 
before I issued my provisional decision, only provided the following comments:
There has been no change to Mr Fs household or electricity usage since the PV 
System and Battery was installed. Only Mr and Mrs F live at the property and have 
done so before and since the installation. No extra appliances have been purchased. 
They go to bed early as they are retired .
Electricity bills have gone up substantially since the solar panels and battery were
installed. 
Mr F has advised he does not have his MCS Certificate.
Electricity bills have been requested a number of times from the energy company, 
but these have not been received.As mentioned above, the CMC has now provided some more electricity bills from August 
2021 to July 2022. However, it has not provided other information that is essential for me to 
make a decision. It has had months to provide this information. The information that would 
be provided by FIT statements is only a small part of this and would not be sufficient for me 
to uphold this complaint. Given the time that has already been allowed, I see no reason to 
expect that a further extension would result in the required information being provided to me.
Because of this:
I do not know anything about the solar panel system at Mr Fs property. So, I cannot 
work out what benefit was possible from the battery installation.
I do not know what sort of FIT payments Mr F was receiving or how installation of a 
battery might affect those payments.
I know nothing about the battery system that was installed  neither its storage 
capacity nor what type of battery it is. So, there is no way for me to know what sort of 
benefit it might reasonably provide.
Summary
In this case, Mr F is asking me to accept his testimony about what he was told. But he has 
not provided enough information for me to decide whether it is fair and reasonable to accept 
what he has said. Because of this, I am unable to conclude that the supplier, S, told Mr F 
that the electricity savings hed make from installing the system would exceed the loan 
repayments.
Nor have I been provided with sufficient information for me to conclude that Mr F has not 
made the savings he was allegedly promised. So, even if Mr F had persuaded me it was fair 
and reasonable to accept his testimony, I still would have insufficient information for me to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman