DRN-3012106
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired through a personal contract plan (PCP) with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) is not of satisfactory quality.
  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr H acquired a new car through a PCP with MBFS. Mr H experienced an 
intermittent fault with the car but had normal use up to July 2020. When the car failed to start 
he contacted MBFS and took it to a garage. He was offered a courtesy car. Mr H brought a 
complaint to MBFS.
In October MBFS upheld Mr Hs complaint and agreed to end the PCP and allow him to 
reject the car. It said there was no deposit to refund and offered to repay 20% of five of Mr 
Hs monthly payments, totalling £1,448.65 for loss of enjoyment of the car. It also agreed to 
pay an additional £200 in compensation. Mr H remained liable for any excess mileage or 
damage outside of its vehicle return standards (VRS). Mr H brought his complaint to this 
service. He wasnt satisfied that MBFS would only pay 20% of the five monthly payments 
that hed not had use of the car.
Our investigator initially thought that Mr Hs deposit should be returned and that MBFS 
should refund payments made from September 2020 to date of settlement. MBSF didnt 
agree. It said Mr H had not made a deposit and that a courtesy car had been provided so 
only a percentage of the monthly payments should be repaid. Our investigator amended his 
view. He said that MBFS should refund 50% of payment from 9 September 2020 to 15 
December 2020, to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car and it should pay 100% 
from 15 December 2020 to date of settlement.
The investigator made the calculation based on what Mr H would likely have paid had he 
had the courtesy car as a PCP agreement. He also noted Mr H had been provided with a 
courtesy car only until December. The investigator confirmed Mr H hadnt paid a deposit but 
had paid for Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy to provide cover, if ever 
there was a shortfall in what he would owe to MBFS in the event of a theft, or if the car was 
written off. Mr H had also bought tyre and wheel insurance. MBFS said it wasnt the provider 
of these products and did not agree to refunding the costs. Mr H accepted this.
MBFS said it believed 50% was too high based on the precedent set by this service. It said 
the difference in value between the courtesy vehicle and the customers own vehicle was 
around 40%. It said while it believed this to be high based on previous decisions, it would 
reflect a fairer outcome. For the period after December MBFS said Mr Hs car had been 
repaired and made available for his use. It also said Mr H had had the opportunity to accept 
its offer and return the vehicle and had chosen not to. It didnt believe it was appropriate to 
cover this period when the customer remained in control of the vehicle. It said MBFS should 
not be penalised for that choice.
Mr H agreed with our investigators view and did not accept MBFSs offer of 40%. He asked
for a final decision from an ombudsman
I wrote a provisional decision on 21 July 2021. I said: 
Its generally accepted the car has a serious fault and MBFS has agreed that Mr H 
can return the car and end the PCP agreement. But the parties disagree about what 
payments MBFS should refund. So, I will concentrate my decision on this.
The time period between September and December 2020
Between September and December Mr Hs car was not on the road so he was 
supplied with a courtesy car. I consider it fair and reasonable for MBFS to deduct fair 
usage. It offered a 20% refund initially. Our investigator recommended 50%, which, 
he said, was closer to the amount Mr H would likely pay if he signed a PCP for the 
courtesy agreement. MBFS agreed to 40% which it said reflected the difference in 
price between Mr Hs own car and the courtesy car.
Mr Hs car was of a particularly high specification (spec). MBFS has categorised the 
courtesy car as having a slightly lower spec. Having looked at the difference between 
the cars I dont agree that they are slight. But nor do I agree with Mr Hs own 
description of the differences, where he compared the difference in these cars with 
two completely unrelated ones much further apart in specification. MBFS has also 
said 50% and even 40% are above the precedent set by this service but it still agrees 
to pay 40%. My role is to make a decision based on the individual circumstances of 
this complaint. While we do have some general award guidance, I must decide based 
on what I believe is fair and reasonable for these circumstances. That said, I consider 
40% to be fair. MBFS has said it reflects the difference in value between the courtesy 
car and Mr Hs car which I think is a reasonable benchmark to use. While I 
understand Mr H had a car with a very high spec, I think it unlikely MBFS would have 
been able to provide a car to that same high spec at such short notice. And Im 
persuaded the courtesy car loaned was a reasonable car and provided in good faith. 
The time period from December to date
Mr H returned the courtesy car in December. He said he wasnt happy with the offer 
MBFS had provided in response to his complaint. Nor was he happy with the quality 
of courtesy car he had been provided with. He says he wasnt offered another car 
and has been making full payments ever since.
In response to our investigators first view MBFS said Mr H was not kept mobile from 
December because he handed the courtesy vehicle back. It said he had rejected his 
own vehicle and MBFS had accepted that. MBFS went on to say to avoid paying his 
rentals from this period Mr H could have accepted the offer, it then would have 
collected the vehicle and started the process. It said Mr H could have continued to 
contact the ombudsman service without the continual payments needed. It said it 
wasnt its place to refund the customer full rentals from December as it could have 
been avoided because it accepted the rejection. MBFS also said paying 100% would 
be going against treating its customers fairly, as there have been customers before 
that have not accepted its rejection outcome and it has not been advised that 100% 
rental refund is required.
It does appear to me that at this point MBFS understood the car to be repaired and 
available for Mr H to use. In its response to our investigators second view MBFS 
said Mr H had continued to keep his car in his possession, rather than returning it to 
MBFS. On this basis, it didnt believe it appropriate for MBFS to be expected to cover 
this period. It said Mr H returned the courtesy vehicle, as he would have been 
expected to, and has chosen not to use his vehicle, despite it being confirmed as repaired. By doing so, and by not returning the vehicle to MBFS, he has prevented 
MBFS from ending the Agreement. It said he has therefore remained in control of the 
vehicle and should pay for having the potential to use it. MBFS concluded by saying 
the decision to use it is solely of the customers choosing and it should not be 
penalised for that choice.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service because he was unhappy with the total 
remedy offered by MBFS. While I do accept that Mr H could have formally rejected 
and returned the car and brought his complaint to us at the same time, which is the 
point made by MBFS, this is not a requirement. And Mr H should not suffer a loss  
by continuing to make payments as a result of bringing the complaint to this service.
MBFS said it kept Mr H mobile. I said above that I consider the courtesy car to have 
been reasonable and supplied in good faith, but I dont agree, in Mr Hs circumstance 
that it was enough to just keep Mr H mobile. His car was very high spec. He wasnt 
happy with the quality of car he was provided with. I think over the period between 
September and December it was reasonable for Mr H to have this courtesy car, but 
Im persuaded that it wouldnt be fair for Mr H to have to accept it for an indefinite 
period while the complaint is going through our service. In the absence of his own 
high spec car Mr H chose not to take one and Im satisfied he should not suffer a loss 
because he chose not to take a courtesy car while bringing his complaint to this 
service.
There was some uncertainty about whether Mr Hs car had been repaired. MBFS 
said it had been. Mr H said it hadnt. I asked MBFS to confirm to me if Mr Hs car had 
been repaired and, if it had, whether it had been offered to Mr H to use. MBFS had 
confirmation from the dealership that the car had been with it since 9 September 
2020 along with both keys. The dealer said the vehicle is still not repaired because it 
was subject to a software update which wasnt yet available.
So, I dont agree Mr H has continued to keep the vehicle in his possession rather 
than returning it to MBFS. Nor do I agree that he chose not to use his vehicle or 
prevented MBFS from ending the Agreement. Mr H does not have possession of the 
vehicle and hasnt had it since September, and Im persuaded he should not have to 
pay for it since December.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must:
1. end the agreement and take possession of the car, both at no cost to Mr H;
2. pay a 40% refund of rentals from 9 September 2020 to 15 December 2020, to cover 
any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car;
3. pay a 100% refund of rentals from 16 December 2020 to date of settlement; 
4. pay 8% simple yearly interest on numbers 2 and 3 above from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement; 5. pay the previously offered amount of £200 for any trouble and upset thats been 
caused, if it hasnt already been paid;
6. remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the 
agreement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman