DRN-2213261
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim under
her motor insurance policy following the theft of her car.
What happened
Mrs K's car was stolen from outside her house at around 5am on 15 April 2019. The police
recovered Mrs Ks car shortly after the theft and arrested the thief. The thief was found to
have several car keys in his possession when he was arrested.
Admiral investigated the claim. The investigation included interviewing Mrs K and her
husband as well as inspecting the car and the keys, alongside information provided by the
police.
Mrs K told Admiral a spare key to the car was kept in the glove box, but that it had never
worked. Admiral investigated the key Mrs K told them was not working and found the
key fob belonged to a different car, but the key blade did belong to the car that was stolen.
When Admiral asked how the key fob and blade had been changed Mrs K was unable to
provide an explanation.
On further investigation Admiral found the garage that sold the car that was stolen to Mrs K 
had not had any dealings with the car the fob belonged to. Although it was later found that 
the fob belonged to a car that Mrs K had previously owned. Although Mrs K didnt tell 
Admiral about the other car immediately, she did when it asked her if she had ever owned 
another car of the same make. She explained that she still had the old car for around six 
months after she bought the new car, and that the keys may have been swapped over.
The car itself was also investigated and it was confirmed there was no theft related damage.
Admiral told Mrs K her claim had been repudiated but later decided further time was needed
to review the case. Admiral apologised for this and paid Mrs K £50 compensation in
recognition of it.
Admiral later declined Mrs Ks claim on the basis that it didnt think the theft had taken place
in the manner she had described and requested reimbursement of its investigation costs
from her.
In my provision decision dated 27 August 2020 I said:
Mrs Ks motor insurance policy like all other policies included limitations and exclusions to
the cover it provided.
Admiral quoted several sections from the policy when declining the claim which included the
following:
General Condition 3: Care of Your Vehicle
You or any person covered by the policy must:
 protect your vehicle from loss or damage
 make sure your vehicle is roadworthy
 allow us to inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask
 remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is left
unoccupied
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect your
vehicle from loss or damage through:
 the inappropriate conduct of the driver; or
 the condition of the vehicle, caused or contributed to the accident; or
 your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be restricted to
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
General Condition 9: Fraud
 If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information at any
time during the policy that would impact either the terms and conditions or our ability to offer
cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which you are connected through EUI
Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs we have incurred and
will not return any premium.
 We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or
anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been
given a false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. Your policy and all
other policies to which you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided.
We will seek to recover any costs that have been incurred and will not return any premium.
Admiral went on to say:
As there is no theft damage to the car, and no extra keys coded to the ECU, the thieves had
to have access to one of your genuine keys to access your vehicle. We have to believe that
you have informed us that the spare key was kept in the glove box in order to cover up how
the thieves obtained one of your keys.
From the information above we have to believe that you have deliberately switched the
genuine key blade into a different key fob, to further support your allegations that the spare
key didnt work in your car.
Based on the information above, we cannot accept that the incident happened in the manner
you reported to us.
I have thought about what admiral and Mrs K have said about the theft, alongside the police
report and information found when admiral investigated the claim.
The police recovered Mrs Ks car and apprehended the thief at the time. The car showed no
sign of any theft related damage and the thief was found with a key to the car in his
possession which was later investigated to be two key parts from two different cars.
Having listened to all the calls provided by Admiral I can also confirm that the police
described the thief as unsophisticated and that no other device was found on the thief that
would give him access to the car or start it.Mrs K has explained that she doesnt know how the key fob from her old car and the key
from her stolen car became combined with each other and that she wouldnt know how to do
this. But I think its fair to say that as the fob belonged to one of Mrs Ks previous cars, that
this happened since she took ownership of the car.
The keys were also back in Mrs Ks possession after the car was recovered so its not
possible to be certain as to when the swap of the key parts took place, either before or after
the car was stolen.
Mrs Ks husband also said in his statement to the police that he kept the keys to the car in
the house and still had both sets of keys. This statement conflicts with the information given
later that a key, that didnt work was always kept in the car. Mrs K has explained that there is
a language barrier and that her husbands English isnt very good.
Whilst I understand English may not be Mrs Ks husbands first language. I have listened to
several calls when he was able to communicate and understand the English language well.
And if he couldnt understand the written police report, considering its importance, I would
not have expected him to sign the document.
Considering the above I currently think Admiral made a fair conclusion that it cannot accept
that the incident happened in the manner you reported to us. And decided not to pay Mrs
Ks claim. I also think it was fair for Admiral to ask for its investigation costs to be
reimbursed.
I gave Admiral and Mrs K some time to respond to my findings before forming my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K responded to my provisional decision. Mrs K explained the circumstances of the theft 
again and re-emphasised that there is new technology available that allows the theft of a car 
to take place without a key. The car also remained on when no key was present.
Mrs K has further explained that she has a large family with several cars so the key must 
have been swapped at some stage.
I have thought about what Mrs K has said but these points havent changed my decision on 
her complaint. As previously stated, the thief was found with the car and was not found to 
have any devices on him that would start it other than the key. And although the car 
remained on when the key was removed, I dont think this shows a key wasnt used to start 
it. Mrs K hasnt provided any engineering evidence to support this.
I also understand that Mrs K has a large family and that it doesnt sound unrealistic that two 
similar keys could become mixed up. But in this case both keys would have had to be taken 
apart, and parts from each swapped with each other. I dont think there would be any reason 
for this to happen mistakenly.
So, with the above in mind I still think the decision Admiral made not to pay the claim was 
reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman