DRN-3694705
The complaint
Mr K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him 
credit he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr K acquired a car. He financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. Mr K was required to make 45 monthly repayments of £219.63, 
The total repayable under the agreement was £9,883.35.
Mr K says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included reviewing Mr Ks credit file, validating his 
declared income, and using statistical data to estimate his non-discretionary expenditure.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought there was 
insufficient evidence that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving the 
finance agreement.
Mr K didnt agree, and the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The information Moneybarn had showed Mr K had an historic default and County Court 
judgment on his credit file. This was quite a large amount to lend in proportion to Mr Ks 
income of about £1,200 per month and that allied to the fact there had been historic financial 
difficulty should, I think, have led Moneybarn to make further enquiries to ensure that the 
lending was affordable for Mr K. I think Moneybarn should have clarified Mr Ks expenditure.
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr K to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out by providing bank statements. 
However, he hasnt given us that information and its not therefore been possible to fairly 
determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown Moneybarn. 
As Mr K hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman