DRN-2529893
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled a claim under her home 
insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In 2008 Mrs A made a claim to Zurich for storm damage to her roof. Zurich accepted the 
claim and re-covered the front and rear dormer flat roofs. In the course of those works it 
damaged some pitched roof tiles, resulting in the whole roof being retiled. The rear patio had 
to be re-laid because of damage from scaffolding. In 2014 Zurich accepted that there were 
problems with some aspects of its work and carried out further repairs.
In 2018 Mrs A contacted Zurich again. She said there was damp in a bedroom and provided 
evidence that this was due to poor workmanship on Zurichs part. As Zurich didnt agree, she 
brought a complaint to this service. A survey was carried out which recommended various 
repair works. Another ombudsman upheld Mrs As complaint.  Amongst other things he 
required Zurich to complete the works to the rear dormer identified in the surveyors report, 
make good the related damage to the interior and pay Mrs A £500 compensation for trouble 
and upset.
Mrs A complained about delays on the part of Zurich. In mid-April 2019 Zurich upheld her 
complaint and paid her £150 compensation for this.
Zurich carried out a temporary repair to the roof. There were ongoing discussions about the 
nature of the permanent repair to the roof and further damage which Mrs A had reported to 
Zurich. Zurich instructed an independent surveyor to report on whether it was liable to carry 
out the works requested by Mrs A, in particular to the main and dormer roofs, patio 
brickwork, remedying damp in the lounge floor, electrics and some garden works.
Following receipt of the report in January 2020 Zurich agreed to carry out the works 
recommended by the surveyor together with other works previously agreed. It also offered 
Mrs A £1,000 compensation.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. Mrs A agreed to the works starting but didnt 
want to close the complaint until the works had finished. She also doesnt think the offer 
includes all the works necessary to make good previous defective work and/or damage 
caused by previous repairs. Since the offer hasnt been accepted, the matter has been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurichs offer to Mrs A was mainly based on the recommendations in its expert report. Ill 
look at whether it was reasonable for Zurich to rely on that based on the detailed 
observations that Mrs A has made in relation to it.
Mrs A has highlighted several errors in the surveyors report. For example the surveyor 
thought Mrs As patio doors were about 30 years old whereas they were only installed in 
2008. He also misunderstood how the patio was relaid. Mrs As comments and supporting 
photos were forwarded to the surveyor. From his response I can see that careful 
consideration was given to them. But ultimately he didnt think he needed to revise the 
findings of his report in the light of them. I can understand Mrs As concern that the 
information given to the surveyor and some of his observations werent completely accurate. 
But I think the surveyor has satisfactorily explained why such inaccuracies dont affect his 
conclusions. So Im not persuaded that Zurich has treated Mrs A unfairly in relying on this 
report.
Mrs A wants Zurich to replace a dimmer light switch in her living room. The surveyor said he 
hadnt been given any evidence that the switch needed to be replaced as a direct result of 
Zurichs electrical testing and not some other pre-existing fault. In the absence of such 
evidence Im not able to make any finding on this point.
Mrs A is also unhappy that Zurich hasnt agreed to replace fire hoods in recessed light 
fittings as part of the works. Unfortunately for Mrs A, Im unable to look at this aspect as it 
has previously been considered by this service as part of an earlier complaint.
Mrs A also wants Zurich to replace floor coverings which have been damaged by Zurichs 
contractors over the last twelve years. Zurich said it didnt believe this was required. I havent 
seen any evidence regarding this. But I note that in an earlier final decision another 
ombudsman required Zurich to put right any damage to the inside of Mrs A's property which 
has been caused by the problems identified with the rear dormer roof. Mrs A accepted this 
decision, so it is binding on both parties. So if Mrs A can show Zurich evidence that damage 
to her floor coverings was caused by the problems with the rear dormer roof, it will be liable 
to make that damage good.
Mrs A also raised the fact that wardrobes in her rear bedroom have been damaged by water 
getting in through the roof. Zurich said it would ask its loss adjuster to form a view as to 
whether the wardrobes could be repaired or needed to be replaced. I think this was a 
reasonable response.
With regard to Mrs As request that Zurich inspect the loft and contents (including loft 
insulation), Zurich said it would inspect and repair the area of the loft that was the subject of 
the insurance claim as opposed to the entire loft. Again I think this is fair.
Lastly Mrs A thinks Zurich should investigate and repair all dormer roofs and the main roof 
to her property. Zurich said it wouldnt undertake an inspection and repairs of the main roof. 
In view of the fact that apart from reinstating a missing finial on the front gable fascia and a 
displaced guard to a gutter the surveyor found no insurance related works required to the 
main roof, I dont think Zurich needs to do any more with regard to the main roof. Zurich has 
accepted the surveyors findings regarding what needs to be done to the front and rear 
dormer roofs.
Issues with the repairs have been going on for many years now and Mrs A has made a 
number of previous complaints. As a result Im only looking at how Zurich has handled this 
claim from 18 April 2019, being the date of its response to a previous complaint. Having 
looked at the photos of Mrs As home, in particular the large hole in her bedroom ceiling due 
to water damage, I can understand how much distress shes been caused as a result of 
previous poor workmanship on Zurichs part. However Ive also looked at what this service 
has awarded in similar circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A but I think the offer Zurich made in July 2020 of £1,000 is fair and reasonable to compensate her for the trouble 
and upset shes suffered.
Mrs A has borne the strain of dealing with Zurich for many years in an effort to have her 
home properly repaired. I appreciate why shed prefer us not to close this complaint until all 
the works have been carried out to her satisfaction. But its not the role of this service to 
manage the claims and repair process. So Ive set out what Zurich needs to do to resolve 
this complaint. I hope it wont be necessary but if Mrs A has further cause for complaint 
which shes unable to resolve with Zurich, then she may be able to bring a further complaint 
to us.
My final decision
Zurich Insurance PLC has made an offer to carry out the following works:
the works recommended in section 4.1.6 of the surveyors report dated 
January 2020; 
reinstate missing finial to front gable fascia;
reinstate displaced balloon guard to northern gutter;
re-fix the telephone supply cable;
repair the fence;
replace the chimney pot & cowl, remake the chimney flaunching and install a 
secret gutter;
reinstate electrical supply to the garage;
repair the roof area where temporary repair is currently in place.
It also offered to pay Mrs A £1,000 compensation. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should carry out the works referred to above 
and pay Mrs A £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman