DRN-3472531
The complaint
Mr M complains about the sale of his private medical insurance policy by Saga Services 
Limited.
What happened
Mr M held private medical insurance cover with an insurer (that Ill call Policy A). 
In 2021, Mr M obtained a quote for a new policy through Saga. After some discussion about 
the cover, Mr M agreed to take out the policy (that Ill call Policy B). This was taken out on a 
moratorium basis. In other words, Mr M didnt have any cover for pre-existing conditions 
from the past three years.
A few months later, Mr M needed surgery for his heart condition. He made a claim for this 
under Policy B. The insurer said the claim fell under the moratorium as Mr M had needed 
annual check-ups for his heart condition in the three years before taking out the policy. The 
claim was therefore turned down. 
Mr M complained to Saga about the sale of Policy B. He said hed told Saga about his heart 
condition, and his annual check-ups.
Saga said it accepted it had mis-sold Policy B and offered Mr M a refund of the premiums 
hed paid. Although Mr M wanted Saga to pay for his surgery, Saga didnt think Mr M 
wouldve been covered for the surgery had he remained insured under Policy A, so it didnt 
think hed been prejudiced by the mis-sale of Policy B. Mr M didnt accept Sagas offer and 
so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Saga had mis-
sold the policy, as he thought Mr M hadnt given Saga correct information about the annual 
check-ups relating to his heart condition. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy Bs moratorium means that the policy wont cover pre-existing conditions from the last 
three years. Pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three yearsbefore the start of your 
cover.
The policy includes a two-year trouble-free term. This means that a pre-existing condition 
would be covered, so long as the policy had been held for two years and the member hadnt 
had a medical opinion or any treatment relating to the condition. 
The policy says the following about regular check-ups and the moratorium:
If you have a specific condition before your policy starts and your doctor or specialist 
recommends that you continue to have check-ups for that condition, then we will not cover 
the cost of private treatment for that conditionfor a period of two years from the time your 
policy started. Cover will then only apply once you have been discharged from care and 
have no further treatment, medication, special diets or advice for a continuous period of two 
years.
In the same situation described above, if you chose to continue having check-ups for your 
own peace of mind even though you have been discharged from care, we will cover you for 
that condition if you do not need any medication, treatment, special diets or advice for a 
continuous period of two years.
Ive read the transcripts of the sales calls for Policy B that took place between Mr M and 
Sagas adviser. During the initial call, Mr M told the adviser that he had mild aortic stenosis, 
but didnt take any medication and didnt have any symptoms. He explained that he had an 
echocardiogram every year. He said that he was going to be signed off a few years ago, but 
he asked to continue having the echocardiogram once a year to have his condition checked. 
The adviser asked if Mr M had the investigation as a peace of mind check-up, and Mr M 
confirmed that was correct. The adviser pointed out that it would definitely have to be a 
peace of mind check-up, and Mr M confirmed that it was and that it was down to him.
The adviser explained that if Mr M had a medical condition within the last three years then 
this would be excluded. Mr M understood that to mean that if he had a claim related to his 
heart, then this wouldnt be covered. The adviser corrected him and said that he would be 
covered, because Mr M wasnt taking any medication and hadnt had any advice from a 
doctor, and was only going for peace of mind check-ups (in the last three years).
Based on what Mr M told Sagas adviser about his check-ups during this call, Im satisfied 
that he was given correct information. If Mr M were having the annual echocardiograms for 
his own peace of mind (rather than him being advised by a doctor or specialist to have 
them), then because he hadnt taken medication or received treatment and hadnt had any 
symptoms in the previous three years, then his mild aortic stenosis wouldnt be considered a 
pre-existing condition.
However, Ive looked at Mr Ms medical information. I see that he was diagnosed with mild 
aortic stenosis some years ago. His cardiologist followed up with him in 2015, and arranged 
for him to have an annual echocardiogram as a follow-up, even though Mr M was 
asymptomatic. The consultant said he would see Mr M again if he developed any symptoms 
or the echocardiogram result showed any progress of his aortic stenosis.
That being the case, I dont think it was right to say these check-ups were just for Mr Ms 
peace of mind. He was advised to have them by his cardiologist in order to monitor his 
known heart condition, and hadnt been discharged from care. I understand the insurer 
reached the same conclusion and therefore found that Mr Ms claim fell under the 
moratorium because his heart condition was pre-existing. If Mr M had made it clear to Saga that his cardiologist required him to have the annual 
checks up, then I wouldve expected Saga to advise Mr M that any claim relating to his heart 
problem would fall under the moratorium. But Mr M didnt make this clear to Saga. 
I note that Saga offered to return Mr Ms premiums. It thought its adviser ought to have told 
Mr M that his heart condition would be subject to the two-year trouble-free period after the 
policy was purchased before it would be eligible for benefit. 
I dont agree with Saga on this. I say that because, based on the wrong information Mr M 
gave the adviser, the adviser thought Mr M didnt have a pre-existing condition. The two-year 
trouble-free period wouldve only been relevant if the adviser had known that Mr Ms 
condition would be considered pre-existing. 
I therefore dont find that Policy B was mis-sold. However, Saga did offer to return Mr Ms 
premiums, and so if Mr M wants to see if this offer remains open to him, he should contact 
Saga directly. 
Saga thinks that Mr M wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim even if he had 
remained insured under Policy A. Thats because Mr M was diagnosed with his condition 
before Policy A was taken out in 2015 on a moratorium basis. Mr M disagrees and thinks he 
wouldve met the two-year trouble-free period requirement before his surgery was needed. 
However, thats based on his view that the annual echocardiograms were for his own peace 
of mind, rather than required by his cardiologist. Though since Ive found that Policy B wasnt 
mis-sold, I dont need to make a finding on that here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman