DRN-3299385
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) relates to Clydesdales 
decision not to consider Mr Ps benefits income in his and his wifes joint application for 
further borrowing.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took a mortgage with Clydesdale in 2019. When they did, Clydesdale 
accepted Mr Ps benefits income alongside Mrs Ps income. The mortgage was for five 
years, at a fixed rate, and included an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was 
redeemed inside the fixed rate period.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs P wished to borrow further monies for some home improvements, but 
Clydesdale said it wouldnt consider Mr Ps benefits income and as such could only lend 
about a quarter of the amount they were looking to borrow. As this was insufficient for Mr 
and Mrs Ps purposes they decided to approach a different lender and in doing so triggered 
the ERC on their existing mortgage. Mr and Mrs P thought that Clydesdale were acting 
unfairly and raised a complaint, which Clydesdale upheld in part, making a compensatory 
payment to them of £150.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with Clydesdales final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there 
had been poor service by Clydesdale and the amount of compensation offered was 
insufficient. The investigator thought £300 would be a fair and reasonable resolution but Mr 
and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
There is no dispute between the parties that there was an ERC on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage 
with Clydesdale. Neither does there appear to be any dispute that the amount of the charge 
was calculated correctly, and save for the circumstances pertaining to their complaint, 
correctly applied. If I am wrong about that, then I can say that I am satisfied from the 
evidence provided that the ERC was correctly applied and calculated when Mr and Mrs P 
redeemed their mortgage with Clydesdale. There is also no dispute that Clydesdale said 
initially that they wouldnt consider Mr Ps benefits income.
The issue in this complaint is whether Clydesdale have acted fairly when Mr and Mrs P 
made their application for further borrowings. That means I must look at is what Clydesdale 
actually did both in relation to the application for the mortgage, and the circumstances 
surrounding the subsequent application for further borrowing. It is clear that Clydesdale 
thought Mr Ps benefits income was acceptable when the mortgage was taken out in 2019, 
and so I can readily understand why they should both feel somewhat aggrieved that it could 
not be taken into account when they applied for further borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs P feel that Clydesdale misled them when they applied for the mortgage initially. 
They also feel Clydesdale have acted in a discriminatory fashion towards them. This is not 
however an accurate statement. When Mr and Mrs P made their initial application Mr Ps 
benefit was considered. This shows that Clydesdale were not discriminating since Mr Ps 
benefit income was accepted and used as an income in determining that application. Whilst 
Clydesdale then went on to state in the further application that they wouldnt consider the 
benefits income, it ultimately reversed that decision and said it would. 
And I cant say Clydesdale misled Mr and Mrs P. Had they made it known to Clydesdale, 
when they made their initial application for a mortgage, that further borrowing would be 
sought in the near future, and had been some evidence of assurances that Mr Ps benefits 
income would be considered in any future application, I think that would paint a different 
picture. But there is no evidence of any such assurances or agreement. So, I cant say Mr 
and Mrs P were misled.
What in fact happened was Mr and Mrs P made a fresh application to borrow more money 
and I am satisfied that it was correct for Clydesdale to require a full application to be made 
so they could properly assess it. It is in Clydesdale refusing to accept such an application 
initially which creates the unfairness. 
Looking at the impact of Clydesdales refusal to look at Mr and Mrs Ps application for further 
funding I can see that on 11 March 2021 Mr and Mrs P were told by the mortgage advisor 
that Clydesdale wouldnt consider Mr Ps benefits income. I have also seen the letter from a 
mortgage advisor dated 22 March advising Mr and Mrs P that they could mortgage their 
property with a new lender. 
At that time Mr and Mrs P had not committed to any new mortgage and the mortgage offer 
had not yet been issued. Mr P has confirmed that on 23 March he thinks his mortgage 
application to the third-party lender was made and on the same day he contacted 
Clydesdale effectively asking them to reconsider their decision. On 24 March Clydesdale 
upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint stating that they would look at any application which Mr 
and Mrs P submitted but could give no guarantee it would be successful. The reason no 
guarantee could be given was because Clydesdale have an eligibility criteria which would 
need to be satisfied before any further lending could be granted. I find that to be fair and 
reasonable and what I would expect to see from a responsible lender.
But, the unfairness caused by Clydesdales initial refusal to look at their application came to 
an end on 24 March when Clydesdale changed their mind. 
As Mr and Mrs P did not make an application to Clydesdale, but instead proceeded with their 
application to the third-party lender, at that point they knew that the ERC would apply. It 
might well have been the case that Clydesdale would have accepted their application, which 
would have meant Mr and Mrs P could have remained with Clydesdale and not incurred the 
ERC. I cant therefore say that the ERC has been unfairly applied since Mr and Mrs P knew 
that it would. I know Mr and Mrs P have described how it had taken a long time for Clydesdale to get to 
the position of agreeing to accept an application including Mr Ps benefits income, and I also 
note that Mr P has described how desperate and distraught he had become being naturally 
concerned about how and where he could raise the funds he needed. But it remains the 
case that on 24 March Mr and Mrs P were given the opportunity to apply for further funding 
with Clydesdale which they declined and in my view, at that stage, it would have been 
reasonable to pursue that avenue first, before deciding to switch lenders since Mr and Mrs P 
werent at that point committed.
Clydesdale has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr 
and Mrs P with £150. As Mr and Mrs P didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive 
given this some further thought, and I think what Clydesdale paid is insufficient. I agree with 
our investigator that £300 is reasonable and fair. When we consider what an appropriate 
level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, 
distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and 
examples of these can be found on our website. The trouble and upset caused here stems 
from Clydesdales initial refusal to consider an application with Mr Ps benefit income. But as 
Clydesdale then changed their mind the impact is significantly lessened to the point that Mr 
and Mrs P did have the opportunity to make their application which could have resulted in 
them staying with Clydesdale and avoiding incurring the ERC. So, I cannot say the ERC has 
been caused or triggered by anything Clydesdale have done.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already paid Mr and Mrs P £150 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that it should pay them a further £150 to make a total compensation payment of £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc shall pay Mr and Mrs P a further £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman