DRN-3425006
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax charged him a cash transaction 
fee.
What happened
Mr R says he made a transfer from his Halifax credit card account to a different account but 
was charged a cash transaction fee of £650. He says the charge was unfair and had made 
similar transactions in the past without charge. Mr R says Halifax didnt tell him in advance 
about the amount of the fee and would like it refunded. He says a similar issue affected his 
sister.
Halifax says it wrote to Mr R in July 2021 and sent him a Notice of Variation of the account 
terms and conditions. It says it told Mr R that certain transaction such as the one Mr R made 
would now be subject to a cash transaction fee. Halifax says it also wrote to Mr R again in 
September 2021 to remind him of the changes and says it hasnt made a mistake.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax had sent Mr R a Notice of Variation about the charges being introduced and 
so didnt made a mistake when Mr R made the transaction in October 2021. The investigator 
also thought Mr R accepted that he received the notice and letter from Halifax.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and says Halifaxs actions were unethical. He says he made a 
genuine oversight and maintains he should received a refund and so should his sister.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that I cant consider 
Mr Rs sisters complaint and she will need to make a complaint if she wishes, to her bank.
I have looked carefully at the Notice of Variation that Halifax sent Mr R in July 2021 about 
this type of transaction. Im satisfied that Halifax made clear that certain transactions would 
now be classed as cash transactions or cash advance fees and subject to a fee which 
includes the type of transaction Mr R made in October 2021. Im also satisfied that Mr R 
received the Notice and that Halifax fairly repeated the information in that Notice in a letter 
sent to Mr R in September 2021. I appreciate Mr R may not have read the letters in detail 
and may not have realised that the type of transactions he had previously made were now 
subject to a fee. But I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for that and would have expected 
Mr R to have read the Notice and letter as well as asked Halifax to explain the changes, if he 
didnt understand the contents.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax correctly applied the fee in line with the account terms and 
conditions and so didnt make a mistake by charging it. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Halifax to refund the fee in part of in whole. We are not Halifaxs regulator and its not our 
role to comment on the size of the fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman