DRN-2886395
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited gave him incorrect information 
when he took out a fixed sum loan for some home improvements. 
Throughout his complaint with us, Mr S has been helped by a family member. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill just refer to Mr S.
What happened
In May 2016, Mr S signed a loan agreement with a building contractor, for some home 
improvements. Mr S says that he spoke to the contractor about making lump sum payments 
from time to time, alongside his usual monthly repayments. He says the contractor told him 
that any lump sum repayments would reduce the monthly repayment, as the term of the 
loan, would remain the same. 
Mr S says this appealed to him, as he planned raise other funds at some point during the 
term of the loan. The loan agreement was mostly hand written, but contained some printed 
terms and conditions. The contractor sent Mr Ss details to Clydesdale for processing and 
the next day, Mr S received a welcome letter. 
In the welcome letter, Clydesdale told Mr S that the terms and conditions of the fixed sum 
loan were the same as the signed documents given to him by the contractor. They didnt 
provide Mr S with another loan agreement, but said they had a copy which Mr S was able to 
see if he wanted to. 
Nearly two years later, Mr S wrote to Clydesdale and asked about reducing his repayments, 
should he make a lump sum repayment. Clydesdale didnt respond straight away. Instead, 
they spoke to Mr S in January 2019, to say the monthly repayments wouldnt reduce. 
In March 2019, Mr S repaid £6,000 to his loan with Clydesdale and told them what the 
contractor had said, when he signed the agreement, three years previously. Clydesdale sent 
Mr S a copy of the loan agreement they had, which explains that lump sum repayments 
wont reduce the monthly repayments. 
Mr S complained to Clydesdale and says the copy of the agreement they hold, is different to 
the agreement he had been given and to what the contractor had explained to him. In their 
response to Mr Ss complaint, Clydesdale said the terms of the fixed sum loan agreement, 
about making part payments are clear. 
Mr S didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
the case and concluded that the agreement Mr S had, was different to the one held with 
Clydesdale. However, the investigator found that Mr S was aware his monthly repayments 
wouldnt reduce, before he made the lump sum repayment in January 2019. 
The investigator also found that Mr S couldnt rely on his copy of the agreement, as it doesnt 
mention what would happen in the event of a part payment. The investigator reminded 
Clydesdale that they needed to treat Mr S fairly, with any repayment plan they look to 
arrange with him. 
Mr S didnt agree and said Clydesdale should have sent him a copy of the contract theyre 
relying on now, when he first agreed to the loan. The investigator didnt change their 
conclusions and Mr Ss case has been referred to me to make a decision.
I sent Mr S and Clydesdale my provisional decision on this case, on 4 June 2021. I 
explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings 
are included below:
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Mr S paid for the home improvements through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 56 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) has the effect of making the building contractor the 
agent of Clydesdale during the antecedent negotiations. 
These negotiations were in the lead up to Mr S entering into the loan agreement, starting 
from when he was first approached by the contractor. But essentially, this means Clydesdale 
are responsible for the acts or omissions of the contractor in relation to the sale of the loan to 
Mr S. In other words, Clydesdale have to stand behind the things the contractor said, did, 
didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process. 
The two different loan agreements 
When Mr S brought his complaint to us, he provided a copy of the loan agreement he was 
given by the contractor. This agreement is a mixture of typed terms and conditions, with 
hand written figures included, where Mr S agreed to details like the repayments, interest rate 
and loan term. 
Mr Ss copy outlines the monthly repayments, when they are due and what he needs to do if 
he wants to repay all, or part of the loan. The version of the loan agreement provided to us 
by Clydesdale is different. Their copy includes an additional paragraph within the Early 
repayment section which says: 
If you repay part of the loan early, we will reduce the balance of your loan but you must still 
continue to make your monthly repayments. The amount you have to pay us each month will 
stay the same, but you might repay the loan sooner. 
Taking each version of the loan agreement into consideration, I can see that there are 
significant differences with the terms, which tell Mr S about part payments. Mr Ss copy 
doesnt mention what the effect of a part payment will be, but Clydesdales version does. So, 
Ive considered if it was fair for Mr S to have relied on the copy he was given by the 
contractor. 
Ive looked at the letter Clydesdale wrote to Mr S on 20 May 2016, the day after he signed 
the paperwork for the loan. Within this letter, Clydesdale told Mr S: 
We confirm that your finance agreement was accepted and dated and is in the same form 
left with you. 
This letter does not include a copy of your accepted agreement but if you would like a copy 
please contact (the building contractor is named). 
Having considered this information, I think Clydesdale told Mr S that the copy of the loan 
agreement he was given by the contractor, reflects the copy they hold. I also think Clydesdale gave Mr S the impression that he wasnt required to have a copy of their version 
of the agreement. Rather, he could ask for one, if wanted to. 
Ive also thought about the letter Clydesdale sent to the building contractor, on 20 May 2016. 
This letter asked the contractor to provide Mr S with Clydesdales version of the loan 
agreement. Mr S says he didnt receive anything else from the contractor. And in any case, 
he says Clydesdale told him he already had the required documents. 
The contractors own letter to Mr S on 25 May 2016, also says that Mr S had already been 
given the necessary documents. So, I think the contractor didnt see it as a requirement to 
send Clydesdales version of the agreement on to Mr S. 
On balance, I dont think the building contractor passed the copy of Clydesdales version of 
the agreement to Mr S. I think Mr S was left with the version of the agreement he signed and 
was then told by Clydesdale, in the follow up letter, that he had all he needed. 
I acknowledge that Mr Ss version doesnt say what the effect of a part payment will be. But, 
I dont think its fair for Clydesdale to have expected him to have known any different, given 
the reassurances they gave Mr S, the day after he signed the loan agreement. 
In all the circumstances, I think it was fair for Mr S to have relied on the hand signed version 
of the loan agreement he was given by the building contractor. 
Misrepresentation 
Mr S says he spoke to the building contractor about making lump sum repayments, before 
he signed the loan agreement form in May 2016. He says he told the contractor that he 
planned to pay a lump sum payment to his loan, to make his financial circumstances easier, 
once he had secured the funds to do so. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss actions here and I can see that he paid £6,000 towards his loan 
account, in March 2019. I can also see, from what Mr S has told us about his personal 
circumstances, that it was important to him, to have that flexibility. On balance, Im 
persuaded the contractor was made aware of Mr Ss wish to make part payments, to reduce 
his monthly repayment. 
The version of the agreement left with Mr S, doesnt say what will happen to the repayments, 
in the event of a lump sum repayment. So, I dont think there was a reason why the 
contractor or Mr S would have questioned this at the time. Therefore, Im persuaded that its 
likely the contractor didnt warn Mr S, that his repayments would remain the same, should he 
make a lump sum repayment. 
Ive said that under section 56 of the CCA, Clydesdale are responsible for any antecedent 
negotiations made by the building contractor with Mr S. So, in light of my conclusion that the 
contractor didnt give Mr S the correct information, I think Mr S was told something that 
wasnt true, about the contract he was entering. 
Ive also concluded that being able to make lump sum repayments was important to Mr S. 
So, I think the incorrect information induced Mr S into entering the loan agreement. In other 
words, I think he may not have entered the contract, had he been given the correct 
information. Having considered everything, I think there has been a misrepresentation of the 
loan agreement and that Clydesdale should do more to put matters right. 
I acknowledge that in January 2019, Clydesdale explained to Mr S that a lump sum 
repayment would not reduce his monthly repayments. But, I think Mr S had already made arrangements to secure the funds before that phone call was made. And by that time, it was 
too late, as Mr S was already under the impression he could make lump sum repayments in 
May 2016. 
Conclusion and next steps 
Ive concluded that, on balance, I think Mr S wouldnt have entered the loan agreement, had 
he known that he wouldnt have been able to make lump sum repayments. So, Ive 
considered how Clydesdale should put things right for him. 
The fixed sum loan agreement was taken out to allow Mr S to pay for some home 
improvements. From what Mr S has told us throughout his complaint, he seems to be 
satisfied with the home improvements, the price he paid for the work and the cost of the 
finance provided by Clydesdale. The crux of Mr Ss concern is what he says he was told by 
the contractor, about lump sum repayments. 
So, I think a fair way to settle Mr Ss complaint is for Clydesdale to work with Mr Ss financial 
circumstances. And for Clydesdale to make sure he doesnt suffer from any adverse effects, 
caused by the misinformation when the loan was agreed. 
Having considered everything, I think its fair that Clydesdale should complete an income 
and expenditure exercise with Mr S and agree an affordable monthly repayment amount with 
him. This will allow Mr S to reduce his monthly repayments as he was expecting to do, and 
bring those repayments in line with what he can afford. When Clydesdale speaks to Mr S 
about the repayments, I remind them that they should treat his circumstances with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
Clydesdale have explained to us that they are unable to modify Mr Ss fixed sum loan 
account, to allow reduced repayments. Whilst I acknowledge that Clydesdale may have 
difficulty doing that with the financial product itself, I think they are able to accept lower 
repayments, particularly if a customer cannot maintain the scheduled repayments. 
The fixed sum loan is scheduled to end after 120 months. If Mr S is able to repay the 
outstanding balance of the loan, by the time the loan term ends, then I think its fair that 
Clydesdale should prevent any adverse information from being recorded with credit 
reference agencies. Should Mr S be unable to repay the outstanding balance by the end of 
the loan term, then I think its fair for Clydesdale to pass that information on to the credit 
reference agencies they use. 
Distress and inconvenience 
I can see from Clydesdales notes that Mr S became aware the loan repayments wouldnt 
change in January 2019. Mr S started to try and make his financial circumstances easier 
before that and in March 2019, he reduced the balance of his fixed sum loan. 
At that time, Clydesdale asked Mr S to maintain his loan repayments, despite knowing he 
had a different version of the loan agreement. I think Clydesdale should have helped Mr S 
more at this point. Either to accept lower repayments, or to have acknowledged the reasons 
why the contractors version of the agreement had caused significant confusion. 
Clydesdale placed a responsibility on Mr S to maintain the repayments, at a time where he 
was experiencing significant personal and financial difficulties. Having considered 
everything, I think this added to what was already a challenging period for Mr S and caused 
him further distress and inconvenience. Mr S has explained that he feels a fair way to resolve the complaint, would be for Clydesdale 
to write off the remaining balance of the fixed sum loan. I agree that Clydesdale have caused 
Mr S distress and inconvenience. But, I dont think it would be fair for Clydesdale to have to 
write off the loan, where Mr S was satisfied with the home improvements, the amount 
borrowed and how long hed have to pay it back. 
I think Mr S has experienced distress and inconvenience when Clydesdale asked him to 
maintain the repayments after hed made a lump sum payment. In all the circumstances, I 
think its fair that Clydesdale pays Mr S £150, by way of compensation in recognition of that.
Mr S responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
Clydesdales refusal to allow lower repayments has worsened his financial 
circumstances and he has borrowed money, every month, for a significant period of 
time to meet his expenditure;
there are wider reports in the media which cover the treatment of customers; and
the amount of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused is derisory and should 
be more proportionate to the media reports mentioned.
Clydesdale responded to the provisional decision and, in summary, said:
there isnt any evidence to support Mr Ss claim that he was told by the contractor 
that hes be able to make lump sum payments to reduce the monthly repayment 
amount;
Mr S made lump sum payments, after he was told they wouldnt make a difference to 
the monthly repayment amount;
Mr S hasnt demonstrated that hes in financial difficulty and they would need to carry 
out a review of his income and expenditure; and
if Mr S starts to make lower monthly repayments, they are duty bound to pass this 
information on to the credit reference agencies they use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale have explained that Mr S hasnt provided anything to support what he says. They 
say there isnt any evidence showing Mr S was told that by making lump sum repayments, 
he could reduce the monthly repayments. 
However, I think Mr S was given a version of the terms and conditions, which wasnt clear 
about what would happen if lump sum repayments were made. And this wasnt corrected by 
Clydesdale or the contractor, until nearly three years after Mr S entered the agreement. Also, 
Mr S did eventually secure funds to be able to make a lump sum repayment. On balance, Im 
persuaded it was always his intention to do so. 
I acknowledge Clydesdales comments about the evidence available. But, thinking more 
broadly about the information we do have, I think its likely Mr S was given incorrect 
information about the loan, before he entered into the agreement.Clydesdale also say that Mr S made lump sum payments, after they had made it clear, the 
monthly repayments wouldnt decrease. I agree that this is a reflection of what happened. 
But, I still think Mr Ss actions, support the conclusion that it was always his intention to try 
and reduce his monthly repayments at some point throughout the lifetime of the loan. 
On balance, I think Mr Ss plans to make lump sum repayments, were encouraged by what I 
think he was likely told by the contractor, before he signed the loan agreement. I dont think 
Mr S making lump sum repayments after Clydesdale had told him about their copy of the 
terms and conditions, changes my findings here.
Turning now to the media reports Mr S has summarised. Our services role is to look at 
Mr Ss individual complaint and the circumstances around it. Were then able to decide if 
Clydesdale have treated him fairly and if they havent, what they should do to put things 
right. It follows that any settlement we decide on, is not to act as a punishment to 
Clydesdale. Instead, our conclusions try to reflect a fair outcome depending on whats 
happened.
On balance, I accept its likely Mr S has needed to regularly borrow money to meet his 
monthly expenditure. So, Ive thought about what Mr S has told us about the impact this has 
had on him. While I acknowledge all that Mr S says, I think he has been able to service his 
priority debts and expenditure. And the amount borrowed seems relatively modest, 
compared to the loan repayment itself and the other expenses Mr S may have.
Other than having to repay the person hes borrowed money from at some point in the 
future, I think the impact on Mr S has been less than if he was unable to maintain his priority 
expenditure. So, I dont think it means Clydesdale should pay him more compensation than I 
have already considered.
That said, it remains that Clydesdale have yet to review Mr Ss income and expenditure, 
despite him telling them, that he is experiencing financial difficulties. Clydesdale have said 
that this could be done through this service. But, I think Clydesdale are best placed to speak 
to Mr S directly to review his financial circumstances. 
And I think theyve had sufficient opportunities since Mr S first raised this issue, to engage 
with him. In doing so, Clydesdale should treat Mr Ss circumstances with forbearance and 
due consideration.
Clydesdale say that they are duty bound to pass information to credit reference agencies, 
should Mr S lower his monthly repayments. Having considered everything, I think Mr S was 
given incorrect information, about how lump sum repayments would impact the monthly 
repayment to the loan. However, Mr S is satisfied with the other aspects of the loan and the 
goods he received. 
So, I think its fair that Clydesdale allow him to repay the loan over the original term of 120 
months. Depending on the outcome of the review of Mr Ss financial circumstances, he may 
repay the loan sooner than that. But, I dont think its fair for Clydesdale to report any 
adverse information to Credit Reference Agencies, if Mr S is able to keep to the agreed loan 
term.
Against this background, I remain of the view that its fair for Clydesdale to allow Mr S to 
make lower repayments to the fixed sum loan. So long as Mr S is able to keep to the original 
loan term of 120 months, Clydesdale shouldnt report any adverse information to the credit 
reference agencies they use. I also think its fair for Clydesdale to pay Mr S £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to:
- allow Mr S to make lower repayments to the loan, in line with his current financial 
circumstances; 
- prevent adverse information from being recorded with credit reference agencies, 
where Mr S is able to keep to the expected agreed term of 120 months; and 
- pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman