DRN-4321829
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead), handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy for damage to a wall at her property caused by ingress of water. 
Any reference to Fairmead in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
Mrs M had a three-year, fixed price home insurance policy with Fairmead. In January 2023 
Mrs M noticed a damp patch on the lower part of the lounge wall at her property. She had a 
builder look at the damp patch and they thought it could be the proximity of a neighbours 
fence, which was only a few inches from the wall, potentially allowing for moisture to form in 
the gap and then penetrating the wall.
Mrs M contacted Fairmead to tell them about the damp patch. LV sent an assessor (LDS) to 
carry out detection of the ingress. In their report following the visit, LDS concluded the cause 
was an outside wate ingress. There was a very small void area between the external lounge 
wall and the neighbours fence, potentially trapping rainwater in the soil in the area with no 
room for it to dissipate, so permeating the wall. LDS also found perished pointing along the 
external wall and insufficient damp proofing, making the area liable to rainwater ingress. 
There were also broken areas and cracks in the rainwater downpipe. 
Subsequently a loss adjuster (GHG) was also appointed, who visited the property. In their 
report, GHG concluded there wasnt any evidence of an escape of water within the property 
and the damp patch appeared associated with the proximity of the neighbours fence to the 
external lounge wall. They didnt think an insured peril was the cause of the damage, water 
having penetrated the wall over a period of time, bridging any damp proof protection. 
GHG advised Mrs M they couldnt see the damage fell under an insured peril. If there was an 
issue with the neighbour (Mrs M thought the neighbour may have moved the fence onto her 
land so it was too close to the wall) it might be best for the claim to be handled by any legal 
expenses insurer.
Fairmead then declined her claim on the grounds that the damage was caused by the 
neighbour, a third party, which wasnt an insured peril under the policy. Fairmead said the 
damage hadnt occurred sue to a single specific event such as escape of water from a burst 
pipe, overflowing drain or storm. The damage to the lounge wall was caused by an external 
source, not an event covered under the policy. Fairmead also noted the factors in LDSs 
report, and said it was likely water had been entering the wall over a period of time  
damage occurring gradually was excluded from the policy.
Mrs M complained to Fairmead about the decline of her claim, but they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response they referred to the factors likely to have caused the 
damage set out in LDSs report and the subsequent decline of the claim. They also 
responded to concerns Mrs M had raised about the attitude of GHG  Mrs M said they were 
rude to her and had asked her whether she had legal expenses cover in place, as she might 
be able to make a claim for the damage against the neighbour. Fairmead said GHG was 
trying to provide Mrs M with options but apologised if Mrs M felt GHG acted inappropriately.
 
Fairmead concluded GHG hadnt delayed assessment of the claim but did accept there had 
been a lack of communication and Mrs M had to call on several occasions to ask for updates 
on progress with her claim. In recognition of this, Fairmead offered Mrs M £50 in 
compensation.
Mrs M then complained to this service. She said Fairmead should have accepted her claim 
under her policy. Shed made many calls to Fairmead in relation to the claim, which had 
significantly increased her telephone bill. She wanted Fairmead to accept the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Fairmead acted fairly and 
reasonably when they concluded the cause of the damage to the wall wasnt covered under 
the terms of the policy. He also thought Fairmeads offer of compensation was fair. He noted 
LDS and GHG both concluded the damage was caused by the neighbours fence being too 
close to the wall, leading to rainwater collecting in the narrow area between the fence and 
the wall. He also noted the findings about the pointing being perished and insufficient damp 
proofing. The water had been entering the wall over a period, not a one-off escape of water. 
And unfortunately Mrs M didnt have legal expenses cover under the policy.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said the damage was caused by the neighbours fence being up against her 
wall and this had caused the water ingression. She didnt think the need for re-pointing was 
related to the damp in the wall. She also thought Fairmead could have made a counter 
claim against the neighbour, as it was the proximity of their fence that had led to the water 
ingress. Mrs M didnt think she needed legal cover, given the level of cover shed taken out 
under the policy. Shed also had to make 50 -60 calls about her claim. Mrs M was also 
concerned at the speed with which our investigator provided his view after being assigned to 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead have acted fairly towards Mrs M. In doing so, Id 
want to assure Mrs M Ive considered all the evidence and information she (and Fairmead) 
have provided. This includes the reports from LDS and GHG as well as the representations 
made by Mrs M when bringing her complaint to this Service, including her detailed response 
to our investigators view.
Looking at the circumstances of the case, the key issue is Fairmead declining to cover the 
damage to the lounge wall of Mrs Ms property, because they dont consider the damage is 
covered by an insured peril under the policy. They believe the damage is due to issues with 
the neighbours fence (being too close to the wall). Mrs M says the damage should be 
covered under the policy. A second issue is the time taken to assess the claim and a lack of 
communication from Fairmead during the claim process.
On the first issue, Ive considered the evidence and information available, including the 
reports from LDS and GHG. Looking at LDSs report, the key conclusions are as follows:
A visual inspection was carried out and our engineer discovered the boundary line to 
be tightly enclosed between the neighbouring fence creating an area of concern for 
rainwater ingress...Our engineer has carried out a leak detection survey and our equipment has 
detected the source of water damage to the lower lounge wall to be caused from an 
outside water ingress.
There is a very small void between the external wall and fence which could 
potentially trap rainwater into the soiled surface between the areas with no room for 
escape causing outside water to migrate into the unprotected extension wall. Our 
equipment indicated perished pointing along the external wall and insufficient damp 
proofing deeming the area to be liable for rainwater ingress.
The rainwater downpipe also requires repair as broken areas and cracks were 
identified.
Turning the GHGs report, the key extracts are:
The operative peril under which this claim is being set up is Escape of Water.
On this occasion we can confirm that there does not appear to be any evidence of 
Escape of Water within the property.
The issues appear associated with the neighbouring proximity of fencing to the 
external brickwork.
Fairmead declined the claim on the grounds an insured peril wasnt the cause of the 
damage. They considered the damage under the Escape of Water peril, which the policy 
defines as:
Loss or damage by water as a result of a burst frozen, leaking or overflowing fixed 
domestic drain, water or heating installation, kitchen appliance or fixed domestic 
water piping/pipes.
The definition wouldnt include water ingress from an external source, as is the case of the 
damage to Mrs Ms wall. So, Ive concluded the damage wouldnt fall under the escape of 
water section of the policy.
Mrs Ms policy includes accidental damage cover. The policy defines accidental damage as:
Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden means.
Looking at the definition alongside the description of the damage included in the extracts 
from LDS and GHGs reports, I cant see that the damage can be considered accidental. The 
circumstances indicate moisture has entered the wall over a period of time and caused the 
damp patch  it wasnt through sudden means.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded the damage to Mrs Ms wall isnt something 
that would fall under an insured peril. When making a claim, the onus in the first instance is 
on the policyholder to show the loss or damage being claimed for falls within an insured peril 
under the policy. As Ive concluded the damage isnt something that falls under an insured 
peril then Ive concluded Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the point made by Mrs M that she 
didnt think the need for re-pointing was related to the damp in the wall. Looking at LDSs 
report, this factor is only one which they believe contributed to the wate ingress and 
consequent damp. And the photographs in LDSs report show there were areas of the wall where the pointing had perished. And this point doesnt change my conclusion that the 
damage wasnt caused by something that would fall under an insured peril.
Ive also considered the point about the option of using legal expenses cover. Regarding the 
point about GHG discussing the option of using legal expenses cover to pursue a claim 
against the neighbour, the report states:
During the visit, our loss adjuster again was able to discuss the circumstances in 
more detail with the Insured and undertake an assessment of the damage 
occasioned to the property.
We discussed general claims procedures and advised that we could not see at this 
stage whether an Insured Peril had been engaged.
If the Insureds version of events is correct in that there is an issue with their 
neighbour, then it may be best for this claim to be handled by any Legal Expenses 
insurer.
We advised the Insured that we would review and refer to insurers.
GHG advised Mrs M to consider approaching any legal expenses insurer. Looking at the 
policy, the legal expenses cover section includes cover for Protection of property, including 
legal costs for pursuing a legal claim and/or arrangement of mediation for a dispute relating 
to the policyholders property, including an event which causes or could cause physical 
damage to the policyholders property. This would appear relevant to Mrs Ms position 
regarding the neighbours fence and what she considers their encroachment on her land. 
However, looking at the Policy Schedule, legal expenses cover is optional, and Mrs M didnt 
include the cover under her policy. So, she wouldnt be able to consider bringing a claim 
under the legal expenses section. Mrs M says she didnt think she needed legal cover, given 
the level of cover shed taken out under the policy. However, its for Mrs M to decide what 
level of cover to take out, including whether to take out any of the optional covers (including 
legal expenses cover). From what Mrs M has said, it appears she considered whether to 
take out the cover but decided not to. Ive not seen anything to suggest she didnt make an 
informed decision not to take out the cover, so I cant reasonably conclude Fairmead have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs M also thinks Fairmead could have made a counter claim against the neighbour, as it 
was the proximity of their fence that had led to the water ingress. However, this doesnt 
change my conclusion that the damage wasnt covered under an insured peril, so Fairmead 
acted reasonably in declining the claim. I wouldnt expect them to accept a claim they 
thought wasnt covered under the policy and then seek to claim the costs of settling the claim 
from the neighbour or (more likely) their insurer. 
The second issue of the complaint is the time taken to assess the claim and the lack of 
communication from Fairmead. Fairmead say GHG hadnt delayed assessment of the claim 
but did accept there had been a lack of communication and Mrs M had to call on several 
occasions to ask for updates on progress with her claim. In recognition of this, Fairmead 
have offered Mrs M £50 in compensation. 
Looking at the sequence of events, I dont think Fairmead took an unreasonable time to 
assess the claim and decline it. And while the involvement of both LDS and GHG would 
necessarily have added some time to the assessment process, I dont think it unreasonable 
for Fairmead to have appointed a leak detection firm in the first instance, to inspect the 
property and determine the cause of the leak (the damp). And their report is (as Mrs M acknowledges) comprehensive and thorough. Nor was it unreasonable for Fairmead to 
appoint a loss adjuster to consider LDSs report alongside the question of whether there was 
an insured peril. 
On the communication issue, Fairmead have acknowledged there was a lack of 
communication and Mrs M had to call on several occasions (Mrs M says she called between 
50 and 60 times). I agree this would have been distressing and inconvenient to Mrs M and 
Fairmead could have been more proactive in their communication. Considering the 
circumstances of the case, I think their offer of £50 compensation is fair. My understanding is 
they havent paid the compensation to Mrs M, so they should pay her the £50 compensation.
Mrs M also raises a concern at the speed with which our investigator issued their view after 
being assigned to the case. However, my role here is to consider the case afresh and come 
to an independent view of the complaint. It isnt to review the approach and way our 
investigator reached their view.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mrs M £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman