DRN-3805369
The complaint
Miss B complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
irresponsibly provided her with a high cost loan that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Miss B with a loan for £2,100 on 19 July 2017. This was repayable over 
24 months at a rate of £175.57 a month. The loan was partly to repay her mother the money 
shed lent her to buy a car and partly to pay for a holiday. She got into difficulties over paying 
the instalments for the loan from about February 2018 and agreed a deferral of payments. In 
May 2018 she advised Everyday that she was off work due to long term sickness. She 
agreed a further deferral in September 2018 because of her new job. As far as I can see 
there is still a substantial balance due to pay. Miss B complained to Everyday about 
irresponsible lending. She said that at the time of applying for the loan, she had a bad credit 
record with missed payments, defaults and a CCJ (County Court Judgement). She also said 
that Everyday lent her more money than shed asked for.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks. These included obtaining and 
reviewing Miss Bs credit record, reviewing one months payslip and the most recent two 
months statements for Miss Bs bank account. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) 
data to assess her outgoings. It noted that Miss B lived at home with her parents and that 
she had no active debts on her record. It assessed that the loan was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that whilst the loan repayment 
represented a significant proportion of Miss Bs income her monthly disposable income was 
enough for her to afford the repayments.
Miss B disagreed and said her credit record would have shown she had a number of active 
accounts.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Everydays checks had to be proportionate  it isnt required in every case to carry out a 
detailed analysis of the customers financial circumstances. In this case it obtained a credit 
report, and verified Miss Bs income by reviewing her payslip  the income figure is also set 
out in the bank statements Everyday obtained from Miss B. As for the living expenses we do 
regard it as appropriate for the business to use ONS data to assess this unless it has reason 
to think that figure might not be accurate.
The credit report obtained for Miss B showed that at the time of her application she had no 
open credit accounts, whether loans credit cards or any other sort of credit. Miss B says this 
isnt accurate as she was in lot of debt at the time. All I can say is that credit reports might 
not be entirely accurate if for example an account had been take out very recently. It might 
not show closed accounts but I dont think it was unreasonable for Everyday to consider just 
active records. Ive seen no documentary evidence that Miss B had other open credit 
accounts CCJs or loans at the time of applying for the loan.
Ive also considered Miss Bs bank statements  these dont show any payments to outside 
lenders and she was not overdrawn for the two month period shown in her statements. I 
have noted that Miss B was paying a standing order of £250 a month which was noted on 
Everydays file as a payment to her mother who had lent her the money to buy a car. Since this loan was to repay her mother I think it was reasonable for Everyday to accept that that 
standing order would no longer be payable after the loan was issued. 
As the records didnt show any other debts, Everyday could only take into account the actual 
monthly payment for this loan. I should say that Miss Bs monthly income though assessed 
at £1,750 was, according to her payslip and bank statement £1,483.65. Even so, she would 
only have been paying about 12% of her income on credit commitments. Although Everyday 
should consider this my view is that the amount she would be paying for the new loan 
represented a reasonable proportion of her income.
As for the disposable income using the lower figure for her income she would still have had 
over £700 of disposable income. So in my view it was reasonable to assess that the loan 
was affordable.
I think that the checks Everyday carried out were proportionate and that nothing showed up 
in those checks which might have alerted Everyday to carry out any more detailed 
assessment of Miss Bs financial circumstances. In respect of giving her a loan for more than 
she had asked for, it appears that the loan was agreed in Everydays branch office, and I 
dont know what discussions may have taken place. It appears that the sum to be lent was 
what was needed for the repayment of the car loan and the holiday. So long as Miss B could 
afford the amount of the loan, I dont think this was unreasonable. I think Everyday made a 
fair lending decision.
I do understand that Miss B has had difficulties since taking out the loan resulting in her 
having to ask for deferrals and reductions in the amount to be paid. Whilst I cant find that 
Everyday should have not lent her the money it nevertheless still has to treat her 
sympathetically, and I would urge her to approach Everyday regarding future payments 
and/or to approach any of the organisations that offer help to people in her circumstances. If 
shes unsure who to approach she can ask Everyday or our adjudicator who can provide 
details.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman