DRN-2193278
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC not providing him with the service it should 
have when wanted to make a final payment on his loan. He says the issues meant he 
overpaid the loan. He wants compensation for the time he has spent dealing with this issue.
What happened
Mr H wanted to make the final payment due on his loan account with Barclays. But, he says 
that when he contacted Barclays no-one was able to help him. He says that after three 
lengthy calls he decided to post a cheque for £150 to Barclays to settle the account. He 
didnt get a response to this and so he visited a branch and made the final payment and 
settled the account. However, his cheque was then cashed so Mr H overpaid by £150.
Barclays says that it received a cheque from Mr H on 28 February 2020 which was two days 
after Mr H had settled the loan in branch. It believes the payments crossed which was why 
the payment in branch was taken. It says the £150 payment was reversed and was paid to 
Mr Hs bank account on 18 March 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Barclays could have been clearer 
in communicating with Mr H about the refund, but that Mr H had confirmed this had been 
received. She noted the stress Mr H experienced in this process but didnt find that Barclays 
had made an error. She didnt find that Mr H had been affected financially by the time taken 
to refund the cheque.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the service provided by Barclays 
wasnt acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr H has said he called Barclays about his account and wasnt able to get the 
information he wanted regarding his account. I do not have the details of the calls 
and so I cannot comment on the detail of the service he received on these. However, 
I can understand this would have bene frustrating. I note that in its final response 
letter dated 28 April 2020, Barclays apologised for the delays Mr H experienced and 
explained the reason for these. 
Mr H decided to send a cheque to Barclays for £150 to settle his account. As he 
didnt receive a response he then decided to visit a branch to settle the account. I can 
understand why Mr H did this however, it was his choice to make the additional 
payment. 
Barclays has explained that the payment in branch took place on 26 February and 
the additional £150 was received two days later. Based on this timeline I cannot say 
that Barclays did anything wrong by taking the payment in branch as the cheque from 
Mr H hadnt been received at that point.
As Mr H paid an extra £150 it is right that this would be refunded. I can see from the 
account statement that the payment was reversed. Barclays has said that the £150 
was refunded to Mr Hs bank account on 18 March. Mr H has said these funds were 
received. I do not find this was an unreasonable delay.
I note the comments Mr H has made about not being aware of the refund and I agree 
with our investigators comment that more could have been done to inform Mr H 
about this. However, Mr Hs statements show the payment details and so he should 
have been reasonably aware of the status of his payments. 
Barclays confirmed in its final response letter that Mr Hs loan account was closed in 
April 2020. This is also reflected in the account statement so again I find that Mr H 
was provided with the information he needed about his account.
Overall, while I understand that Mr H was upset by the service he received, as Barclays 
refunded the additional payment he made in a timely manner and this was shown on his 
statement I do not find I can say it did anything wrong. I note the comment about the 
telephone calls but without further evidence to show the service wasnt as it should have 
been I do not require Barclays to take any further action beyond the apology it has already 
made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman