DRN-1627558
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs G are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined the claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs G held a travel insurance policy with ERGO. The policy was to cover a trip to 
China in August 2019, flying in and out of Hong Kong airport.
Mr M said that when they arrived at the border on the day of their return flight, Hong Kong 
border officials told them there were protests at the airport and that flights were being 
cancelled. Mr M said he contacted the airline and he was told the flight would depart as 
normal.
He said that he then heard that the Hong Kong government announced that all flights would 
be cancelled. He contacted his airline again, and was booked onto the next available flight, 
with no additional charge.
Despite a large protest at the airport, they caught their rescheduled flight and arrived back in 
the UK, 24 hours later than originally planned.
He made a claim for the delay under his travel insurance policy. ERGO declined the claim, 
saying that his travel insurance policy didnt provide cover for the cause of the delay.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She felt that ERGO had handled the 
claim fairly and in line with the terms of the insurance policy. She did think it could have 
handled the claim better and agreed that ERGO should pay £50 to Mr M and Mrs G for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr M and Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr M and Mrs Gs travel insurance policy covered delays. And the 
airline has confirmed the flight was delayed for 24 hours. So the issue I have to consider is 
whether or not it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the claim.
It said it declined the claim because the delay part of the policy didnt cover flights that were 
cancelled or delayed due to protests. It also said the exclusions in the policy confirmed the 
policy didnt cover for loss, damage, cost or expense directly or indirectly caused by Civil 
Unrest. It said it defined the protests at the airport as civil unrest and this meant it wouldnt 
cover the claim for the delay.
The airline said the flight was delayed due to the closure of the airport check in facilities  it 
didnt specify the reason for the closure. But we know from what Mr M has told us that the 
airport was affected by protests.
Section 10 of the policy covers claims for delay and abandonment. This explains that the 
policy covers delay or abandonment due to adverse weather, industrial action, public 
transport issues, or if the airline cancels your flight.
On this occasion, Mr M made his claim because the airline cancelled his flight.
But its the general exclusions part of the policy that ERGO has relied on. The policy says it 
will not cover for any loss directly or indirectly caused byCivil Unrest. And it defines civil 
unrest as Any sort of war (whether declared or not), hostility, invasion, revolution, act
of foreign enemy, civil war or unrest, rebellion, insurrection, mutiny, uprising or military 
usurped power, martial law, state of siege or United Nations or NATO enforcement action.
The UK government website tells us there had been large scale political protests in Hong 
Kong since June 2019. It says that many involved significant violence in clashes between 
police and protesters. And many of the protests had been unauthorised.
So, Im satisfied that Hong Kong was in a period of civil unrest, as specifically excluded 
under the policy.
There are exceptions to this exclusion. The policy describes situations where the 
policyholders would have been covered. This included the sudden, unexpected occurrence 
of War and Civil Unrest in an area previously in a state of peace at the time you entered the 
area.
Mr M says that the protests that occurred at Hong Kong airport on the day that he was due 
to travel were sudden and unexpected. This he says, was because there was no indication 
that the protests were going to be held at the airport. I disagree. The Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office provided regular updates on the UK government website. Since at 
least 27 July 2019, before Mr M and Mrs G left the UK on their outbound flight, it had warned 
travellers of the likelihood of violent protests in the area. And on 9 August 2019, four days 
before they were due to travel home, it warned of future protests at the airport.
So Im satisfied the area, including the airport, were not peaceful at the time he entered the 
area.
I appreciate that Mr M and Mrs G would have had a traumatic journey to the airport. He told 
us the airport was blocked on the rearranged day of travel, and they had to be helped by the 
police to get into the airport. He argues that Hong Kong is a peaceful city. He believes it 
unreasonable to say that he should have expected the civil unrest in the area, or the airport 
in particular  but Im satisfied there was sufficient warnings of the ongoing unrest.
He says ERGO has rejected his claim on unreasonable grounds. He says it was fully aware 
of his destination and it agreed to insure that risk.
I disagree. It insured him under the terms of the policy he purchased. That policy, like all 
policies, set out what it would, and would not cover. In this case, the policy excluded claims 
arising from civil unrest.  Ive explained above why Im satisfied that Mr M and Mrs Gs flight 
was delayed due to the ongoing civil unrest. And therefore, it was reasonable for ERGO to 
decline their claim.Mr M and Mrs G also complained about the delays in handling their claim. They had to send 
multiple emails and make multiple calls to ERGO to chase their claim. I understand that 
following a conversation with our Investigator ERGO agreed to award £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience. I think that this is a fair amount to pay to reflect the inconvenience 
caused at the time.
Putting things right
ERGO should pay £50 to Mr M and Mrs G to reflect the inconvenience caused in the 
handling of their claim
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr M and Mrs Gs complaint. ERGO 
Reiseversicherung AG should pay the award Ive set out above but doesnt need to do any 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman