DRN-1316757
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited gave him confusing 
information about whether he still owed money or not.
 What happened
After Mr B got into financial difficulty with maintaining his contractual financial commitments, 
he arranged regular monthly payments through a Debt Management Company (DMC) to 
Cabot who managed his accounts. But on the offer of a gift from his father he contacted 
Cabot to look into settling his outstanding accounts.
In March 2019, Mr B called saying he'd settle one of his accounts by using the money from 
his father. He said he had two other accounts and was planning to settle these by 
consolidating them into a loan. Cabot told him the settlement figure needed for the smallest 
of his accounts, and that the same percentage deduction could be made to one of his other 
accounts. When Mr B queried his commitment to repay the joint account he had with his ex 
partner he was told this was closed, and he wouldn't be pursued for repayment. 
Mr B called back the same day and agreed a settlement amount for the two active accounts 
that had been discussed. He made the payment, from the gift made by his father, and asked 
Cabot to send in writing confirmation the accounts were closed. Cabot wrote to him and 
confirmed the three accounts had been closed.
Cabot, after being told by Mr B's DMC that they were no longer acting for him, wrote to Mr B 
about a fourth account, with another lender I'll call L. Mr B questioned this account with 
Cabot as he said they'd told him this account had been closed and that they wouldn't pursue 
him for the debt.
Cabot said Mr B opened the loan account with lender "L" in July 2008, in 2017 Cabot 
was instructed to manage the account. And Mr B had been making regular monthly 
payments through his DMC.
Cabot said the loan from "L" hadn't been discussed in the call. And that Mr B had confused 
the account with the joint account he'd had with another lender. Cabot apologised for any 
confusion that had been caused and offered to pay Mr B £100. 
Mr B wasn't happy with Cabot's response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said she thought Cabot should pay Mr B a further £100 to recognise the 
trouble and upset hed experienced because of the lack of clarity provided by the advisors 
during the calls. Cabot didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done, so I'm upholding Mr B's 
complaint. I'll explain why.
Ive listened to the calls Mr B made to Cabot and its clear that Mr B was looking to settle his 
various accounts. The reference he gives each time only relates to one of the accounts, but 
he says he has two other accounts. The call was about clearing his debt either with a gift 
from his father or by consolidating all the debt into one loan.
Given the nature of the conversation I'd have expected the advisors to have made clear to 
Mr B what accounts he had with them. Mr B said he needed to know how much he owed, so 
he would know how much he needed for the consolidation loan.
But the advisors only confirmed the amounts owed on two of his sole accounts. And after 
some discussion about his responsibility for a joint account with his ex partner, confirmed to 
him that this account was closed. There was no mention of any other loan. And I'm satisfied, 
when Mr B settled the two accounts with a gift from his father his understanding was that this 
had settled all of his accounts. 
Mr B is told by the advisor to tell his DMC that the accounts are closed. And given that the 
DMC told Cabot they were no longer dealing with Mr B  I think this shows Mr B thought all 
his accounts had been closed. 
I can understand Mr B's frustration when believing he was debt free and no longer working 
with the DMC to find a couple of months later that he still owed a substantial loan. This must 
have been very upsetting.
From listening to the calls I know the loan wasn't mentioned by either Mr B or Cabot. Mr B 
only asks about three accounts, at no point is he told he actually has four accounts. And I 
think Mr B's clear objective was to clear his debt. So, I think Cabot should have detailed all 
the accounts he had with them. I think in not doing this Mr B didn't have the opportunity of 
consolidating his debt as he had intended to do. But instead he negotiated a settlement 
amount for the two loans as he was able to pay this with the gift from his father.
So, I can understand why Mr B was confused by the conversations he had with Cabot. But I 
can't say that Mr B shouldn't pay this debt as it is something that he did still owe. Cabot has 
agreed that the calls had confused Mr B and offered him £100 to reflect this. But I don't think 
this is enough to compensate Mr B for trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right
As outlined above Mr B was clear as to what he wanted to do and I don't think Cabot did 
enough to help him. And Mr B had the upset of knowing he wasn't debt free and the trouble 
of needing to arrange repayment after he'd stopped using the DMC. So, I agree with our 
investigator that Cabot should pay him a further £100 to apologise for the trouble and upset 
this has caused.
 
 
 My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And ask Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to pay a further 
£100 (in total £200) for trouble and upset. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman