DRN-4033812
The complaint
Mr F complains that Resolute Financial Advisers LLP gave unsuitable advice to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
Mr F believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr F to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Fs.
What happened
In 2017 Mr F contacted Resolute about the possibility of accessing his pension benefits after 
he turned age 55, which was his next birthday. After meeting with Mr F Resolute told him it 
didnt give advice on DB pension transfers and referred him to another company, which Ill 
call Firm I. Firm I later advised Mr F to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension. Mr F 
took that advice. Resolute continued to act as Mr Fs financial advisers for ongoing advice.
Later in December 2017 Mr F wrote to Resolute. He said he wanted to withdraw £70,000 
from his pension to buy a property and acknowledged that this was against Resolute's 
advice. 
In October 2018 Mr F told Resolute that he wanted to withdraw a further £12,500 from his 
pension. The following month, November 2018, Mr F told Resolute that he wanted to take 
another £12,500 from his pension. He then contacted the pension provider directly and 
withdrew £16,500.
In October 2022 Mr F complained to Resolute about the suitability of the advice to transfer 
his DB pension fund. He also complained that it had failed to advise him appropriately about 
the lump sum withdrawals he made from his pension.
Resolute didn't uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said it didnt hold the regulatory permissions to 
advise on DB transfers. It added that Mr F would have gone ahead with the lump sum 
withdrawals regardless of its advice. 
In December 2022 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)1 wrote to Mr F. It 
said he had a valid claim against Firm I and had calculated that hed lost £101,664 as a 
result of the advice Firm I provided. It said it was paying Mr F the maximum compensation 
allowed under its rules which was £85,000.
Mr F brought his complaint about Resolute to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. She 
didnt uphold it. Mr F didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint so it's 
been passed to me to decide. 
1 The FSCS may help consumers when a financial business is unable  or likely to be unable  to pay 
compensation due from a claim against the business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr F has made a number of points. I've considered all the relevant 
evidence carefully. But I dont intend to address each point individually. Instead I will focus 
on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Fs complaint and the reasons for 
my decision.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Did Resolute advise Mr F to transfer?
I understand that Mr F contacted Resolute after looking for an adviser online. Resolute said 
it didnt have the regulators permissions to give advice concerning a DB transfer and 
introduced Mr F to Firm I. Its told us Resolutes adviser was present when Mr F first met with 
Firm I. So I can understand why he might have felt Resolute played an instrumental role in 
the advice process. But that doesn't mean Resolute gave advice or made a recommendation 
to transfer Mr Fs benefits from the DB scheme.
I understand that Resolute did some of the initial evidence gathering and looked into options 
relating to an enhanced annuity. But I don't think that goes as far as giving advice or making 
a recommendation concerning a DB transfer. And the evidence Ive seen shows it was Firm I 
and not Resolute which recommended Mr F should transfer his DB funds to a personal 
pension. In fact the FSCS upheld Mr Fs complaint about Firm I and awarded him 
compensation as a result. And I dont think that would have happened if Resolute was 
responsible for the transfer advice. 
Mr F said that, in February 2017 Resolute directed Firm I to recommend Mr F transfer his 
DB funds to a personal pension. Hes pointed to an email in which Resolute said it believed 
the recommendation would be for Mr F to transfer to a personal pension until he turned age 
55 and then to swich income. But I dont think that amounts to a direction or instruction for 
Firm I to take specific action. Giving pension advice is a fairly heavily regulated activity. And, 
in order to give DB transfer advice, advisers have to have specific qualifications and 
regulatory permissions. Resolute didnt have those permissions  but Firm I did. And, 
regardless of what Resolute might have thought would be the likely outcome of Firm Is 
advice, it was not in a position to instruct Firm I as to what its advice should be. Firm I 
remained responsible for the advice it gave, regardless of what Resolute did or did not say. 
Mr F said he didnt know that another party other than Resolute would be involved and that 
he had to pay two lots of fees. I accept that, when Mr F initially contacted Resolute he didnt 
know another firm would be involved. But its clear that Firm I provided him with its own 
terms of business, which Mr F accepted, and those are clearly branded in the name of 
Firm I. So, while Mr F might not have anticipated another firm becoming involved, he was 
clearly aware that it was a separate firm that was actually giving the transfer advice. Also, it's worth noting that Resolute didnt charge Mr F for the pension transfer advice. It only 
charged him for its ongoing financial advice after the transfer had completed. So Mr F didnt 
pay a fee directly to Resolute for the advice to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension. 
It follows that Im satisfied Resolutes role in connection with the DB pension transfer was 
limited to making an introduction. And as such, I find that it isn't in any way responsible for 
the advice Firm I gave.
Mr F also said that if Resolute hadn't introduced him to Firm I then he would have remained 
in the DB scheme. But I don't accept that argument. Mr F clearly contacted Resolute initially 
because he wanted to transfer his pension. And, if Resolute had simply said that it couldnt 
give him advice  rather than introducing him to Firm I  I think hed have simply looked 
elsewhere for another firm that could give him advice. . 
I'm aware that once Firm I had given its transfer advice it referred Mr F back to Resolute for 
it to provide ongoing financial advice. But the fact that Resolute continued to provide advice 
after the transfer doesn't mean it was responsible for the earlier advice given by an entirely 
different firm.
Mr Fs lump sum withdrawals
Mr Fs said that Resolute didnt give him advice about his lump sum pension withdrawals. 
Resolute told us Mr F made an oral request to withdraw funds in December 2017 . Resolute 
hasn't given us evidence, made at the time, of that conversation. But its apparent that it 
advised Mr F not to take that action. Thats because he wrote to Resolute saying he wished 
to make the withdrawal and acknowledged that this was against its advice. So Im satisfied 
on that occasion Resolute did give Mr F advice not to make the withdrawal.
Similarly, Resolute said that in October 2018 Mr F again told it orally that he wanted to take 
the withdrawal before putting that request in writing. Again Resolute doesn't have any 
evidence, made at the time, of what it discussed with Mr F. But it said he would have gone 
ahead with the withdrawal regardless of what its advice was. It's pointed out that in 
November 2018, Mr F initially told Resolute he wanted to withdraw £12,500 but he then 
contacted the pension provider directly, withdrawing £16,500. So, its evident that, on that 
occasion, Mr F decided not to involve Resolute in the process and take the withdrawal 
himself without its advice. 
Further, I've seen that, in 2018 and 2019, Mr F took withdrawals from his pension fund on 
about eight separate occasions without involving Resolute. Those sums ranged from £9,115 
to £16,500. So he was clearly aware that he didnt need Resolutes permission to make 
withdrawals from his pension. As Ive said, on a number of occasions he decided not to 
involve Resolute and on another hed clearly gone against its advice. 
In those circumstances, I'm persuaded that, even if Resolute had clearly documented that it 
had advised Mr F not to make those withdrawals he would have gone ahead and taken them 
anyway. It follows that I dont think Resolute is responsible for any losses Mr F might have 
suffered as a result of him taking withdrawals from his pension fund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman