DRN-1420935
 
The complaint
 Miss M complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading then as Midland Bank.
What happened
Miss M took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1999. At the same time, she was sold a monthly 
premium PPI policy to cover her mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Later that year, Miss M took out a further secured loan 
with HSBC and the policys monthly premiums were increased to provide cover for this 
loans repayments, in addition to those for the original mortgage lending.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
HSBC had to make it clear to Miss M that she had a choice about taking the PPI policy and 
obtain her consent to doing so. 
The policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC has provided a copy of the application form for 
the PPI policy which Miss M signed at the time she was applying for her mortgage. And I can 
see that at the top of this form there are Yes and No boxes next to the question Do you 
want to arrange cover?. The Yes box has been ticked on the form and other details, 
including the amount of cover required, have also been entered. And I can see that Miss M 
completed a direct debit mandate for collection of the monthly PPI premiums before the first 
one became due. HSBC has also provided a copy of the PPI application form which Miss M 
signed later in the same year when she was taking out the additional secured lending and 
increasing her PPI cover to reflect this.
So, from the evidence Ive seen, I think that HSBC did make it clear to Miss M that the PPI 
policy was optional. And I think that she accepted the recommendation of the mortgage 
advisor she spoke to and actively decided to take it out. But I can understand why she might 
not remember this now, as the sale took place a long time ago.
As HSBC advised Miss M to take out the policy, it needed to make sure that it was suitable 
for her. I can see that a Personal Financial Planning Review was carried out when she 
applied for the mortgage and before HSBC recommended the PPI to her. And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why the PPI policy wouldnt 
have been suitable. I say this because:
She seems to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations
 
Miss M says that she had other means of making her loan repayments if she couldnt 
work and so didnt need the PPI. But this policy would have paid out for up to twelve 
months in the event of an accident, sickness or unemployment  in addition to any 
other means she might have had at the time. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment  one where ones home is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments 
cant be made. So I still think that Miss M would have been prepared to pay for the 
extra security the policy gave her if things went wrong. 
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss M. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met her needs.
 
HSBC also needed to give Miss M enough information about the PPI policy for her to decide 
if she wanted it. I think its possible that the information HSBC gave her could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her mind about taking it. I 
think shed still have thought the policy gave her useful benefits at an affordable price.
So I dont think Miss M has lost out by anything that HSBC may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman