DRN-1764916
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs P says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.  
What happened
Mrs P applied for two credit cards with Lloyds in 1995. At some time between then and 2000, 
PPI was added to her accounts that was designed to help protect her repayments if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs P didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the 
information available from the time. Mrs P says she was sold the PPI by post. Lloyds 
cant confirm how it was sold. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1995 
and 2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without 
her knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs P, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. She says she became self-employed in the late 1990s 
but, from the policy terms that likely applied, I can see she still would have been able 
to claim on the PPI without undue difficulty.   
The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy pay she 
was entitled to, for up to 12 months per claim. She says he had some savings but the 
PPI would have allowed her to retain them or put them towards covering her other 
daily expenses if she was off work. Overall, I think shed have found the additional 
security the PPI provided useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it appears it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I also cant see that shed have found it unaffordable. 
 Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Ps lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
her the PPI.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman