DRN-2869588
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated her unfairly when it declined her applications 
for a personal loan.
 
In bringing this complaint, Mrs O is represented by her mother. For ease, Ill refer to all 
comments and actions solely as those of Mrs O.
What happened
Initially, Mrs O asked Lloyds to increase the overdraft on her business account  but it didnt 
agree to do so. As a result, Mrs O borrowed money using credit cards instead.
 
Mrs O then applied twice for a personal loan, in May and July 2019, to consolidate the debt 
shed incurred through using the credit cards. But Lloyds declined both of Mrs Os 
applications so, unhappy with the banks decision, she complained. Mrs O thought Lloyds 
hadnt assessed her applications fairly.
 
Lloyds sent Mrs O its final response on 17 October 2019. In it, the bank said its lending 
decisions are based on individual circumstances. Lloyds explained it takes several factors 
into consideration, which can include general account management and external credit 
reference agency data.
  
Further, Lloyds said it had seen that Mrs Os personal accounts had remained overdrawn for 
some time  and this wouldve been a factor in its decision to decline the loan applications. 
The bank said both applications had been declined automatically and, after checking with its 
personal lending team, the decision remained the same.
Mrs O brought her case to our service and an investigator here looked at what had 
happened. He said there was no requirement on the bank to accept Mrs Os applications. 
The decision about whether to lend is one of legitimate commercial judgement  and this 
service cant order a bank to provide credit. Moreover, the investigator looked at why Lloyds 
had declined the applications and he didnt think the bank had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
 
The investigator did note that Lloyds had already paid Mrs O £200 compensation. It had 
done so because Mrs O said Lloyds branch staff had given the impression her personal loan 
applications would succeed and, when they didnt, this had caused some upset. Overall, the 
investigator thought the bank had acted fairly  so he didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mrs O disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She still felt 
Lloyds had treated her unfairly, and she considered Lloyds lending decisions to be the 
reason she now had to pay high interest on her credit card debt.
  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of her complaint Mrs O has made several detailed points. And Im sorry to hear 
how much this matter has affected her.
 
Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail, and I may not have commented on 
everything Mrs O has raised. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
I understand the core aspect of Mrs Os complaint is that Lloyds didnt accept her loan 
applications. She believes the bank shouldve offered her more assistance. Indeed, Mrs O 
can see no valid reason why her loan applications would not have been accepted.
 
Put simply, Mrs O believes she could afford the loan repayments. But thats her own 
assessment of her circumstances. And while I can understand how it must be frustrating that 
the loan application was declined  when she personally can see no reason why it would 
have been  it must be noted that Lloyds is entitled to make the decision to decline the loan 
application, if it so chooses. 
Ultimately, as our investigator explained, its for a bank to decide who it will lend to and  if 
so  on what terms. It isnt within the remit of this service to tell a bank that it should approve 
a loan application  and a bank doesnt have an obligation to provide a full and exhaustive 
explanation as to why a loan application wasnt approved. However, it would be expected 
that the process a bank follows in assessing the circumstances of customers who make loan 
applications is a fair one  and doesnt lead to customers applications being declined in any 
manner that could be considered unfair.
Lenders must carry out affordability assessments of any form of lending. Those 
assessments should be proportionate and borrower focussed, and the level of them will  of 
course  depend on the type of lending and the amount. In assessing Mrs Os applications, 
Lloyds has said it carried out a credit check and looked at her existing commitments. Based 
on these checks, the bank decided that Mrs O didnt meet its criteria. And, as such, it wasnt 
prepared to lend. I think thats reasonable.
 
I appreciate Mrs O disagrees with that decision, but Lloyds is responsible for ensuring she 
could repay the credit in a sustainable way. Mrs Os applications were subject to the banks 
usual assessment, and Ive not seen anything to suggest Lloyds treated Mrs O differently to 
any other applicant. So, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in how it assessed her personal 
loan applications.
 
I can appreciate it wouldve been upsetting for Mrs O to be given the impression that her 
personal loan applications would be accepted. Lloyds has acknowledged this was 
disappointing, and I think its right that Mrs O is compensated for the upset it caused. Ive 
seen that Lloyds has already paid Mrs O £200 and, in the overall circumstances, I think 
thats a fair and reasonable amount. So, I dont require the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman