DRN-3375195
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had an annual travel insurance policy which theyd taken out in March 2019 
through a broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes and cover was due to expire 
on 27 March 2020.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs L were abroad. They were due to fly back to the UK on 23 March 
2020. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, they paid for a fit-to-fly check at a medical 
facility before trying to board their return flight. However, this check hadnt included a Covid-
19 swab test and so Mr and Mrs Ls airline refused to let them board their return flight. This 
meant Mr and Mrs L had to remain abroad for a few days longer before they were able to 
return to the UK on a repatriation flight. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy 
for the cost of their new return flight.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said the circumstances of the claim 
werent covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said their travelling companions claims had been paid by their insurers.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He felt the only 
section of the policy which included cover for a policyholders missed return departure was 
the Missed Departure section. And he didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls situation fell within the 
scope of any of the insured events covered by the Missed Departure section, or within any 
other section of the policy. So he concluded itd been fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They queried what the fit-to-fly rules had been at the relevant time 
and they felt theyd followed their airlines guidance. Theyd thought that our service would 
be able to sort things out for them. They were shocked by the outcome. They couldve taken 
out much cheaper insurance, but theyd preferred to take out cover through a more reputable 
company. Theyd been shocked that the broker hadnt highlighted Covid-19 restrictions to 
them when they took out the policy. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider Great Lakes decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim. I note Mr and Mrs L 
have referred to some concerns about the sale of the policy, which appears to have taken 
place in March 2019. But Great Lakes wasnt responsible for selling Mr and Mrs Ls policy to 
them  it was taken out through a broker. So if Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way the 
policy was sold to them, theyd need to make a separate complaint to their broker about that 
specific issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of their 
claim, to decide whether Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs L didnt take out all-risks cover. 
Instead, their policy sets out the specific, listed insured events which Great Lakes covers 
and also specific exclusions which may apply to claims. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ls trip wasnt cancelled  theyd reached the end of their holiday 
and were due to return to the UK at the point they were denied boarding. Their original return 
flight seems to have departed as scheduled. And Mr and Mrs Ls trip wasnt cut short  in 
fact, it had to be extended. So I cant fairly find that their claim is covered by the Cancellation 
or Curtailment Section of the policy.
As the investigator explained, the only section of the policy which provides cover for a 
policyholder missing their booked return departure is the Missed Departure section of the 
policy. This says
What is covered:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level as 
shown on Your Policy Certificate) for travelling and accommodation expenses necessarily 
incurred to reach the booked destination or the UK by the most direct alternative route, if 
during a Trip You arrive at the airport, port, train, coach or ferry terminal too late to 
commence Your booked journey as a result of:
Your transportation being delayed or cancelled due to unforeseen Strike and
Industrial Action; or
Your transportation being delayed or cancelled due to adverse weather conditions;
or
Mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel
You were due to travel on; or
The vehicle You are travelling in being involved in an accident, breaking down or
being delayed by a major accident causing a traffic jam or road closure.
In my view, Great Lakes has clearly set out the insured events it covers under the Missed 
Departure section of the policy. And in this case, theres no evidence to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs L arrived at the airport too late to board their return flight. Instead, the evidence seems 
to indicate that they did arrive at the airport in time to catch their flight but were denied 
boarding to the flight itself. Its also clear that the reason they were denied boarding was 
because of the airlines Covid-19 rules, rather than because of other of the listed events Ive 
set out above. So I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr and Mrs 
Ls situation wasnt covered by the terms of their contract.
Ive also noted that the General Exclusions which set out a specific list of things Great Lakes doesnt cover includes the following term:
Any claim which arises directly or indirectly from you not being allowed to board a flight, 
train, sea vessel, coach or bus for any reason.
This means that not only is the reason for Mr and Mrs Ls claim not covered by the policy 
terms, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of 
the claim anyway.
And having reviewed the remainder of the contract terms, I cant see that any of the policy 
provides cover for the costs Mr and Mrs L have claimed. This means I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ls situation, as I understand theyre out of pocket due 
to the airlines rules. But Great Lakes isnt responsible for any Covid-19 rules the airline 
decided to introduce. And while Mr and Mrs Ls travelling companions claims may have 
been paid, Great Lakes isnt bound to follow the actions or terms of third party insurance 
companies. Based on all Ive seen; I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly direct Great Lakes to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman