DRN-4486994
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her chargeback dispute about 
her purchase of a car.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss D bought a used car for £9,600; she paid £5,000 of that with her 
Barclays debit card. The car was six and a half years old. There is a dispute about the 
mileage, but a month earlier the mileage had been recorded as 21,068 miles.
Miss D says that she discovered the following problems:
The windscreen wipers dont work properly;
The car had been marketed as being ULEZ compliant, but it wasnt;
The MOT history shows a discrepancy with the mileage, in that the mileage appears 
to have decreased by about 4,000 miles between January and November 2020. Miss 
D says this proves that somebody must have interfered with the odometer. She says 
that the manufacturer told her that the real mileage in November 2022 was actually 
72,000 miles (about 51,000 more than the MOT says);
The dealership that sold her the car had written in the logbook and recorded a false 
entry in the service history.
Miss D raised these matters with the dealership, but received no reply. In October 2022, she 
asked Barclays to raise a chargeback dispute, which it did. But then in November 2022, 
Barclays sent Miss D a letter telling her that the dealership had defended the chargeback, 
and enclosing the dealerships invoice for the car. This letter went on to say that Barclays 
hoped this explained the payment for her, but if she was not satisfied then she should reply 
within the next ten days.
Miss D says she did not receive that letter until after the ten days had expired. On the 
eleventh day she phoned Barclays to complain. She also says that the letter indicates that 
Barclays had failed to understand what her chargeback claim was about. The bank had 
treated it as if she had not recognised what the payment was for, and as if the invoice 
explained everything and was enough to resolve the matter, when in fact she had been 
complaining that the car was defective or not as described.
In January 2023 Barclays wrote to Miss D again to tell her that her chargeback dispute had 
been closed, and that the £5,000 would be re-debited to her account
In January 2023 Barclays wrote to Miss D again to tell her that her chargeback dispute had 
been closed, and that the £5,000 (which had been temporarily refunded) would be re-debited 
from her account. In February she brought this complaint to our service.
Barclays told our investigator that after Miss D had complained about the letter it had sent 
her in November, she had still not provided any evidence to support her claim. Under the 
chargeback rules, Barclays was allowed 30 days to provide further evidence in response to 
the dealerships defence; that deadline had expired later in November, and with no further 
evidence Barclays had had no option but to close the dispute.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that Barclays had made mistakes 
in its handling of the chargeback dispute. But he did not think that those mistakes had made 
a difference to the outcome  that is to say, even if Barclays had done everything right, the 
chargeback would still have been unsuccessful, because Miss D had not provided enough 
evidence to support her claim. In particular, he said there was no proof that the odometer 
had been tampered with; he thought that the mileage discrepancy was probably just a 
mistake. And he didnt think that the poor customer service had been so bad that it merited 
an award of compensation.
Miss D did not accept that decision. She maintained that there was clear evidence to support 
her allegations  specifically the MOT history and the logbook. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I agree that Barclays could have dealt with the chargeback better than it did. Although 
Barclays did identify the correct chargeback reason  goods defective or not as described  
the bank was nevertheless satisfied with the dealerships defence to the dispute, which was 
not to the point. That defence had consisted of nothing more than copies of the invoice, the 
warranty, and the debit card payment receipt, as if Miss D had raised a chargeback dispute 
because she hadnt recognised the transaction. 
Nevertheless, that doesnt necessarily mean that the chargeback should have succeeded. It 
was still necessary for Barclays to respond to the dealerships defence with evidence that 
the car was defective or not as described (or better still, to have provided that evidence in 
the first place). So I have considered what evidence Miss D had provided to Barclays by 24 
November 2022, which was the latest date by which Barclays could have provided it (being 
30 days after it received the dealerships defence on 25 October).
First of all, Miss D has not provided any evidence at all about the windscreen wipers not 
working  either to Barclays, or to our service. So I am unable to conclude that a chargeback 
could have succeeded on that issue.
Secondly, Miss D told us that the car was marketed as ULEZ-compliant, but that this had 
turned out not to be the case, as she had begun to receive letters about non-payment of the 
ULEZ charge. She researched the matter and discovered that she would need to obtain a 
document from the manufacturer confirming that the car was ULEZ-compliant. She obtained 
that document and forwarded it to Transport for London. So according to her own complaint, 
the car was ULEZ-compliant, and had not been misdescribed. I find that there is nothing in 
that point which could have served as the basis of a chargeback claim.
The MOT history shows that the mileage in July 2018 was 17,193 miles. In January 2020 it 
was 18,623. In November 2020 it says 14,050 miles, which clearly must be wrong. In 
November 2021 it was 21,068 miles; that was the most recent mileage recorded before the 
car was sold to Miss D a month later. For chargeback purposes, it is the November 2021 
mileage which must be shown to have been inaccurate. So I must decide whether the 
previous reading, which was obviously incorrect, means that the next reading was wrong 
too.
Miss D infers that the only explanation for the 2020 mileage must be that someone tampered with the odometer. However, I think another explanation is possible, and actually more 
probable: it was most likely just a mistake. (As an example of how that might happen: if the 
person who carried out the MOT made a handwritten note of the mileage, and later referred 
to the note to enter the mileage on a computer, and if their handwritten nines are hard to 
distinguish from fours, then 14,050 instead of 19,050 could have been entered in error.)
On the balance of probabilities, I think that some sort of clerical error (whether happening in 
the way I suggested above or in some other way) is more likely than odometer tampering. It 
follows that the mileage in November 2021 is likely to still be accurate, which leads me to 
think that a chargeback would have been unlikely to succeed on this point.
Miss D recently (in November 2023) provided us with further evidence about mileages, 
showing figures which are different to those recorded in the MOT history. However, that 
evidence was not available to Barclays when the chargeback dispute was open, and so I 
have not taken it into account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
our involvement in this case to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman