DRN-3200552
The complaint
Mrs E, through her representative, complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company 
Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information supplied by Mutual this brief loan table shows the approved loans. Mrs E 
originally said that her loans commenced in 2008 but the information from Mutual is that the 
first loan was in 2013. Mrs E has not provided anything to show she had loans before 2013. 
Loan Start date Loan 
amountDuration 
weeksInterest Weekly 
repaymentSettlement 
dateTotal repaid
106/04/2013 £900 102 £495 £13.67 31/05/2017 £1,395.00
227/05/2017 £1,000 51 £400 £27.45 09/05/2018 £1,400.00
309/12/2017 £1,000 102 £550 £15.19 13/02/2019 £1,461.51
407/07/2018 £2,000 102 £1,100 £30.39 25/09/2019 £2,940.49
Mrs E has described the situation as follows: 
I was encouraged to get my 1st loan by the doorstep agent as my partner at the time 
already had 2 loans and was unable to get another as it was December mutual did a 
special Christmas voucher type loan so I went along with it. It became impossible to 
pay off the loans so each time the agent would suggest a bigger loan to pay off the 
existing loan and to give myself extra spends again. The account often fell into 
arrears because of my inability to pay but when that happened it was always 
suggested to borrow more. These loans left me and my family in substantial debt 
constantly
Mrs E complained in December 2020. Mutual sent to her its final response letter (FRL) in 
which it set out the information it said it used before approving the loans. It knew Mrs E was 
living with a partner, she had 3 children and was a full time mum. The 2013 application 
shows that her benefit income amounted to about £278 in a week and the outgoings for the 
household were about £280 which included, rent, council tax, food, travel, utilities, and some 
other financial commitments (unspecified). Mutual had obtained information about her 
partners income. The other application forms Mutual has sent show similar figures for Mrs E 
and that her partners income was noted on those forms as well. The loan applications are 
for Mrs E alone  they are not joint applications.
Mutual has sent to us a credit search result relating to Mrs E from 28 June 2018 and likely 
relates to the loan 4 application.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the loan 1 repayment 
delays ought to have placed Mutual on notice that she was having trouble paying. Our 
adjudicator said, Given that [Mrs E] struggled to make her repayments at £13.67 it was 
unlikely that she would be able to meet a repayment commitment of around £27, which loan 
two was committing her to.
Our adjudicator also held the view that Mutual shouldve also reasonably questioned
whether continuing to offer Mrs E further loans from loan 2 when she appeared to be reliant 
on this form of lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. He thought that Mrs E had 
been indebted to Mutual for over four years without a break, and the amounts she was 
borrowing increased and sometimes she had more than one loan running at the same time, 
increasing her repayment commitment. So, he thought that Mutual should put things right for 
Mrs E from loan 2. 
Mrs E agreed. Mutual did not and sent many submissions and gave reasons why it did not 
agree, all of which I have reviewed.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general 
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance, and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a summary is below. 
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and 
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published 
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the 
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with other high cost short term credit lenders.  
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. 
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Mrs Es circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them where necessary.
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mutual advocates a low and grow policy. I make no comment on any policies a lender may 
create or apply as thats an internal matter for that lender and outside my remit completely. 
But I do say that this policy if it was in place does not seem to have been applied rigorously 
to the lending decisions under consideration here. When Mrs E applied to Mutual in April 
2013 (loan 1), was not likely applied. Her first loan was for £900 over 102 weeks which is 
almost two years. It does not seem to have been a low and grow policy application at that 
point. 
When Mrs E applied for loan 2 in May 2017, Mutual had applied a default to her first loan in 
July 2014 and this is evidenced by the credit search results Mutual has sent to me which  
although dated June 2018  covers the period back to 2012. My view is that this default 
against its own customer ought to have had a bearing on future lending decisions. Mutual 
has set out its approach to repeat lending (Appendix B of its document sent to us) which is 
the form of a table with a series of considerations Mutual says its agent would have gone 
through before lending. 
I have read Mutuals submissions on its approach to repeat lending and I make the following 
points to demonstrate why I do not think that these were considered thoroughly in Mrs Es 
case:
the figures submitted as income and expenditure sums for Mrs E do not alter in each 
of the application forms I have seen and so it seems her circumstances did not alter 
during the lending relationship over 5 years; and
the extended time it took for Mrs E to repay loan 1 (almost four years rather than two)  
costing her around £14 a week ought to have alerted the Mutual agent to consider that a loan for more money over a shorter period (51 weeks) and costing around £27 
each week would likely be unaffordable; and
Mrs E remained a full time mother and had no income of her own - her benefits 
income of around £280 and the household outgoings of around £280 make it clear 
she was not able to afford this on her own. So, Mrs Es partners income appeared to 
make that difference on affordability. And yet nothing has been submitted by Mutual 
to demonstrate that her partners financial situation was such that he could absorb 
that debt. Mutual has supplied details of his income but not of any credit 
commitments he may have had. Mrs E has explained that the reason she took the 
first Mutual loan was because her partner already had two and so it sounds as 
though it was very likely Mrs Es partner had other debt and with Mutual. So, it may 
well have been that Mrs Es partner was already burdened with debt, a relevant detail 
about which Mutual has shown me nothing. The significance of that is that the loans 
were not joint applications  they are in the name of Mrs E alone - and by taking 
information about Mrs Es partners income but not his own financial position in the 
round, then its not a complete picture. 
The experience Mrs E had repaying loan 1 suggests that Mrs E did have difficulties 
repaying it and this got to the stage where Mutual itself applied a default against 
Mrs Es account. Applying a default to your own customer and then lending to that 
customer again does not suggest that the information it had about her was assessed 
in the way that the rules and regulations outline it ought to have been. Further, 
Mrs Es difficulty repaying loan 1 over 4 years does not indicate to me that Mrs Es 
partner was able to assist at that time. And this information Mutual would have had 
when Mrs E approached it for loan 2.
I refer to Mutuals own matrix of approaches set out in its Appendix B (as referred to 
earlier). This background to loan 1 indicates to me that proper application of those 
considerations by Mutual likely ought to have led to a non-approval of loan 2. Which 
is why I have concluded that I dont think the agent for Mutual did apply these. 
In addition to the above, Mrs E started to take loans which overlapped with the previous 
unpaid ones, the loan sums increased to £2,000 and the amount Mrs E was due to repay 
each week increased as well. And yet her income and expenditure figures were much the 
same. 
So, at the point at which loan 2 was approved, the combination of the Mutual default against 
her and the repayment history for loan 1, and the signs of additional overlapping of loans, 
plus the increases in weekly payment commitments, I have decided that Mutual ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not that Mrs Es indebtedness was unsustainable. 
I think that Mrs E lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 2 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Mrs E borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding the complaint about loans 2 to 4 and Ill go on to set out what Mutual should do 
to put things right.Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Mrs E, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the Court in this 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs E from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mrs E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs E loans 2 to 4. My understanding is that these have been 
repaid and there are no outstanding balances. 
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs E towards 
interest, fees, and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything already refunded; and B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C)  Mutual should pay Mrs E the total of A plus B; and
D) the overall pattern of Mrs Es borrowing for loans 2 to 4 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Es credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint in part and direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman