DRN-2478837
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to close her bank account 
without warning. Shes also unhappy with the service Barclays provided, including their 
failure to respond to her data request.
What happened
Mrs W held a current account with Barclays. Mrs W says this was her only current account 
which she used to pay bills and receive any income.
On 13 December 2019, Barclays took the decision to close Mrs Ws account without notice. 
They explained this was due to what they felt was unreasonable conduct from Mrs W when 
dealing with a previous complaint. Even though Barclays stated the account would be closed 
from that date, the account remained open until 18 December. On this date, the account was 
closed and a cheque for the remaining balance was sent to Mrs W. Mrs W was unhappy 
about this, so she contacted our service to raise a complaint on 19 December.
Mrs W was unhappy with Barclays decision to close her account. She explained this was 
her only account, meaning she had no way of accessing money over the festive period. She 
explained she was due to travel to her elderly mother who lived over 300 miles away and 
now couldnt do so as she had no transport. So, she wanted to be compensated for this 
upset and inconvenience. Mrs W also complained about Barclays failure to respond to her 
data request, the way Barclays handled her complaint, branch closures and Barclays use of 
offshore call centres. She felt all of the above contributed to discrimination against her.
While Mrs W raised these complaints with us, our investigator called Barclays to discuss Mrs 
Ws access to her own money. Barclays confirmed Mrs W would be able to withdraw the 
remaining balance from her account in cash if she attended a branch and our investigator 
communicated this to her.
Barclays responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd acted fairly, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account, when closing it. So, they didnt think they 
needed to compensate Mrs W for this. And they apologised that Mrs W hadnt received the 
cheque sent to her on 18 December. They transferred the account balance into Mrs Ws new 
account with another bank, plus £200 that had been returned into the account during this 
time as well as the remaining balance of Mrs Ws ISA. They also explained Mrs W hadnt 
responded to their request for further information relating to her second data request, so 
asked for a response in order for them to continue. But they recognised Mrs Ws first request 
hadnt been actioned and expressed their happiness that Mrs W had accepted an offer of 
£150 for this in a separate complaint response. 
Mrs W remained unhappy with this response as she didnt think it recognised the upset and 
inconvenience shed been caused, so she referred her complaint back to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Barclays had 
closed the account in line with the terms and conditions, so didnt think she could say this 
was unfair. She recognised the impact this had on Mrs W financially, but she thought 
Barclays had offered Mrs W the chance to receive the remaining balance in cash if she 
attended branch. And she thought they were fair when offering to pay for Mrs Ws taxi into 
branch to do so.
She also thought Barclays had fairly compensated Mrs W for the earlier delays with the data 
request. And shed seen Barclays were waiting for a response from Mrs W to process it. So, 
she didnt think they needed to do anything more for this and signposted Mrs W to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she wished to pursue this further. She also 
explained branch closures and where call centres are located are a business process 
decision, which is something were unable to comment upon or ask Barclays to change. But 
from what shed seen, she didnt think these had impacted Mrs W.
And finally, our investigator explained shed seen no evidence of Mrs W being discriminated 
against. So, because of the above, our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs W didnt agree. She didnt think our investigator has considered the financial impact of 
being without access to funds from 13th December 2019 to 20th January 2020. Mrs W 
explained she didnt receive the cheque sent by Barclays and even if she had, she had no 
account to pay it into. She explained shed been unable to receive her pension or pay road 
tax and insurance which had left her open to enforcement. She said she was also unable to 
pay her home insurance and break down insurance which placed her at risk during that time. 
So, she wanted to be compensated for this, and the suffering shed endured.
Our investigator asked Mrs W for evidence of the above, but I cant see that any was 
provided. So, without this, our investigator maintained her original view. As Mrs W didnt 
agree, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs W. I recognise Mrs Ws 
account was closed directly before the Christmas period. And I understand this wouldve 
made it difficult for Mrs W to set up a new account to replace it, due to business opening 
hours around that time. I do also appreciate the upset this wouldve caused, as the 
Christmas period can be a financially taxing time of year. Im also aware Mrs W was due to 
travel to see her elderly mother before the account was closed, and the upset Mrs W 
wouldve felt if she was unable to make this journey. But for me to say that Barclays have 
done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms of the 
account when closing it the way they did. Or, if this was within the terms of the account, that 
they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the account Mrs W held, which explain  we may end 
this agreement immediately or on less notice (and stop providing services and close your 
account) if we reasonably believe you have seriously or persistently broken any terms of the 
agreement or we have reasonable grounds for thinking you have done any of the following 
things, which you must not do:Your put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty
that applies to us if we maintain your account.
You give us any false information at any time.
You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else.
You use (or allow someone else to us) your account illegally or for criminal activity
You inappropriately let someone else use your account.
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
You become bankrupt (unless you have a Barclays Basic Current Account)
So, I think Barclays were able to close Mrs Ws account immediately if they felt their reason 
fell within the examples shown above. And Barclays have confirmed they closed Mrs Ws 
account at they felt shed been threatening and abusive towards their staff. Because of this, I 
think Barclays acted within the terms of the account when deciding to close it immediately..
But Ive also thought about whether Barclays were fair to rely on these terms. Although 
Barclays intended to close Mrs Ws account on 13 December, the account wasnt actually 
closed until 18 December which was five days later. And Ive seen during this period, Mrs W 
used her account to make several purchases, one of which was to a car rental company.
So, I dont think Mrs W was financially impacted by the closure of her account until this point. 
Mrs W says she didnt receive the letter dated 13 December until 19 December. Ive seen 
she raised her concerns with us on this date, so I think its reasonable for me to assume this 
is correct. Ive seen Mrs W spoke to our service and we in turn spoke to Barclays. Barclays 
confirmed a cheque had been posted to Mrs W but if she wanted the balance in cash, she 
could travel to a local branch. Ive seen our investigator made Mrs W aware of this.
Mrs W has said the cheque wasnt received. But Ive used the tracking number of the post 
which shows Barclays sent the cheque, and that it was signed for by someone using Mrs 
Ws last name. So, although I recognise Mrs W says this wasnt her, I dont think Barclays 
can be held responsible for this. Im satisfied they sent the cheque as Id expect them to do 
and any issue with the postal service and its receipt would be an issue to raise with the 
postal service directly, which I can see Mrs W has done.
And when the cheque wasnt received, Im satisfied Mrs W was reasonably aware she was 
able to go into her local branch and withdraw the balance in cash. Although I recognise Mrs 
W has disabilities which make this more difficult for her, Im also aware Mrs W has explained 
she was due to travel to see her elderly mother. And she rented a vehicle in the days before 
the account closure. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs W was able to travel if 
necessary. And Ive also seen Barclays offered to pay the cost of a taxi for Mrs W to attend 
branch. So, when the cheque wasnt received, I think its reasonable for me to assume 
Barclays wouldve offered this to Mrs W if shed contacted them to explain the situation. So, I 
dont think its fair for me to hold Barclays responsible for the suffering Mrs W went through 
over the Christmas period without access to her money when I think she had other ways of 
receiving it.
Ive seen that Barclays did electronically transfer Mrs Ws money, including her £0.34 ISA 
balance, into a new account on 8 January 2020. I recognise Mrs W says she was unable to 
access this until 20 January but I dont think this is the fault of Barclays.
So, I think Mrs W was actually unable to access her money from 18 December to 8 January, 
which is a period of 20 days. And I do think this wouldve been upsetting and worrying for 
her. But I do think Mrs W was offered an alternative method to obtain this money and I cant 
see that she attempted to utilise this. Ive also seen no evidence to support Mrs Ws claims 
regarding her inability to pay her road tax or motor, breakdown and home insurance and any financial impact this had. So, Ive been unable to consider this further. Because of this, 
although I do understand Mrs Ws upset and anger, I dont think Im able to say Barclays 
closed her account unfairly. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more 
for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then turned to Mrs Ws data request. Ive seen Barclays have already offered Mrs W 
£150, which she accepted, for delays with her original request made in August 2019. So, I 
dont intend to discuss that any further. Ive thought about the actions Barclays took after this 
point. And Ive seen Barclays liaised with both Mrs W and her legal representative about this 
request and in early December 2019, Barclays asked Mrs W for further information so they 
could continue with the request. Barclays have said they didnt receive a response, so no 
further action was taken. Ive seen no evidence to show Mrs W did respond so I wouldnt 
expect Barclays to continue until this response had been received. So, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong and dont think they need to do anything more. Mrs W may wish to 
contact the ICO to discuss her options further, as they regulate data protection within the 
United Kingdom.
Ive also considered Mrs Ws concerns regarding branch closures and offshore call centres. I 
can see these concerns were originally addressed in 2017 by Barclays, so usually we would 
say theyre out of jurisdiction. But Barclays commented on these again in their most recent 
response so Ive continued with them as part of my decision. And as both the closure of 
branches and location of call centres are a business decision made by Barclays, as part of 
their internal business processes, they arent one Im able to comment upon or ask them to 
change as part of our service.
And finally, Ive thought about Mrs Ws allegations of discrimination. And I dont think Ive 
seen any evidence to support this. Ive seen no evidence to show Barclays have treated Mrs 
W any differently to the way theyd treat another customer in the same situation. And I think 
theyve actually acted positively and sympathetically to Mrs Ws situation by offering to pay 
for a taxi to allow Mrs W to travel into branch to withdraw her money as cash if she needed 
it. I dont think Barclays decision to close Mrs Ws account is evidence of discrimination, as 
theyve provided a reason as to why this decision was taken. And this reason fell within the 
reasons listed within the terms and conditions of the account that allowed Barclays to do so. 
Because of this, I cant say that Barclays have done anything wrong.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for. And I recognise its taken a 
substantial amount of time for our service to provide this outcome, which Id like to apologise 
for. But I hope this decision goes some way to providing Mrs W with closure on the situation 
and explains clearly why I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman