DRN-3802003
The complaint
Mr J complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused damage to his camera unit when it 
replaced his windscreen after he made a claim on his motor Insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
Mr J made a claim on his insurance for damage to his windscreen. Aviva organised for its 
authorised windscreen repair supplier to fit a new windscreen.
Before starting the replacement the windscreen repair technician carried out a check on the 
windscreen camera unit and a fault was found. After discussion with Mr J the technician 
cleared the fault and the windscreen was replaced. The engineer then tried to recalibrate the 
windscreen camera but could not complete it. He said he thought it was only the lane 
departure system that wasnt working.
Mr J said he did not use this function of the camera, so he accepted the fault. But the next 
day when he used his car he found that none of the functions that were associated with the 
camera were working at all.
Aviva organised for an inspection to take place and this was carried out by the main dealer. 
This found the camera unit was damaged and it could not be repaired. The windscreen 
repairer also rechecked the fault and found a damaged part in the camera unit. 
Mr J said Aviva should pay for a replacement camera unit. Plus fitting and recalibration 
costs. However Aviva said the damage was there before the windscreen was replaced, Mr J 
disagrees and said that all the safety features associated with the camera were working 
before the windscreen was replaced.
As Mr J was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said after 
reading all the evidence they agreed with Aviva that the damage was present before the 
windscreen was replaced and so did not think Aviva needed to do anything further.
As Mr J is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, its important to note 
that our service cant determine how the damage occurred. What we have to consider is the 
information or opinions Aviva have relied on to make their decision. Id expect to see either a 
report or opinion from a qualified expert.
In this case I looked at the damage to the camera unit in Mr Js car. I saw that faults were 
found during the pre-global check and there is evidence of these faults being recorded at 
10.45am on 25 May 2022 before any work was carried out on Mr Js windscreen. 
The work to replace the windscreen went ahead after the technician discussed the faults 
found during the pre-global checks with Mr J. After the technician failed to recalibrate the 
camera after fitting the new windscreen he inspected the camera unit and found a part was 
not fully attached and appeared to be damaged.
After Mr J found that none of the safety features associated with the camera were working I 
saw that a second technician from the windscreen repair supplier tried again to recalibrate 
the camera without success. The local main dealer was then appointed to conduct an 
inspection. 
The main dealer checked for stored fault codes and found a fault recorded on the forward 
sensing module at 12.26pm on 25 May 2022. It checked the connections to the camera unit 
and all feeds to it were found to be OK. It was unable to recalibrate the camera whilst on a 
road test, so they suspected an internal fault on the camera unit.
After the inspection the garage referred their findings to Avivas in-house engineers who said 
the fault found by the main dealer was recorded at 12.26pm on 25 May 2022 because that 
was the first time the calibration was attempted after the windscreen had been replaced. And 
as the time a fault was found and recorded by the approved windscreen technician was prior 
to this at 10.45am on the same date, it shows that the faults were there before the car was 
worked on.
I have also considered that Mr J thinks that the windscreen technician opened the camera 
whilst he was trying to recalibrate it, and this is when it was broken. However there is no 
evidence to support this. But there is evidence that shows the camera unit wasn't functioning 
correctly before any work was started, as proven by the fault codes, which are timestamped.
As theres a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on what I thinks more 
likely than not to have happened after considering the evidence provided. 
In this case I am satisfied that Aviva used an engineers professional opinion to make its 
decision to decline Mr Js claim. The evidence provided shows that the fault was present 
before the engineer carried out the work. And Mr J was made aware of this before any work 
started.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and do not require Aviva to do anything more in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman