DRN-3386609
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC continued to charge it for an 
overdraft it didnt want and was unable to cancel.
What happened
The director of F says she tried to contact Barclays to close the account. She was unable to 
get through on the phone or to use a live chat function and tried many times. The overdraft 
was removed in July 2021, but F wants a refund of fees.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding any fees. The first time F asked to cancel the overdraft 
was during a call on 12 July 2021. It didnt have a record of any call to its business team 
about this before then. A call in October 2020 from the director was to a different business 
area. And when F called in April 2021 about a payment and a PIN reminder no mention was 
made of the overdraft. Barclays accepted that its phone lines been busy at times but not to 
the extent that F would be unable to get through. Barclays accepted that when F tried to 
raise a complaint it didnt initially log this and so if offered to pay F £50 in compensation for 
the inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything more than it had offered to. 
Shed asked F to provide evidence of calls about this issue. It had shown it had tried to call 
four times in June 2021 after it had been told during a live chat that this is what it would need 
to do so. The successful call to the business team had taken place on 12 July 2021. She 
didnt think that F had shown that there had been a sustained attempt to deal with this issue 
or that F had tried to contact Barclays at a less busy time of day before then. She thought 
that the compensation reflected the poor service. And the overdraft fees were payable 
whether or not F was using the overdraft.
F didnt agree, and the director said she was disappointed with the outcome. She had 
checked the calls for a few months and most of the time the lines were busy. Barclays 
needed to have more staff to answer the phones. She cant see why Barclays doesnt refund 
the fees for the period that F didnt need the overdraft and tried to cancel. She said that if F 
had owed Barclays money the position would have been different, and F would have been 
taken to court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays had provided examples of the pre notification of the monthly charges sent to F and 
that the charges were then shown on its statements. The monthly fee was payable whether 
or not the overdraft was used.
I know that F says that it had been trying to close the account since October 2020. Barclays 
has no record of that before the live chat in June 2021 and then the required call to its 
business team to do so in July 2021. And as has been pointed out it says that F made no 
mention of this when it contacted Barclays about other issues in April 2021.
F has shown for example that it spent over an hour in four calls on 26 June 2021 trying to 
get through starting at around midday. The one on 12 July 2021 started at 16:51 and lasted 
for about 40 minutes and led to the overdraft being cancelled the next day. I dont doubt that 
call lines were busy but its a matter for Barclays as to how it staffs them. And Im afraid I 
dont see evidence of a sustained attempt by F to get through even in the period when its 
provided its phone records. And so, Im not satisfied on what Ive seen that it wasnt possible 
for F to get through and cancel from October 2020 onwards. So, I wont be asking Barclays 
to refund any fees.
Barclays has offered to pay F £50 relating to a specific service issue and I wont be requiring 
it to do more than pay this.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay F £50 to resolve this complaint. I think that this is fair in all 
the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay F £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman