DRN-1297560
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was unable to opt in online to a bonus interest rate via Goldman 
Sachs International Banks (T/A Marcus by Goldman Sachs) website. Hes also unhappy 
with how his complaint was dealt with.
What happened
Mr T holds a Marcus online savings account with Goldman Sachs. This account offers bonus 
rates to both new and existing customers, which they can opt into via the website or by 
contacting Goldman Sachs directly.
On 16 October 2019 Mr T attempted to renew his bonus interest rate of 0.10& gross via 
Goldman Sachs website. But he wasnt able to do so due to technical issues Goldman 
Sachs was experiencing on its website.
The following day, at 11:44 am, Mr T successfully opted into to the bonus interest rate. He 
contacted Goldman Sachs at 12:12 pm that day to complain about the problems hed 
experienced the day before and to request that it backdate his bonus rate to 16 October.
On 18 October Goldman Sachs backdated Mr Ts bonus rate to apply from 16 October. 
During a conversation with Mr T that day about this he asked it to pay him £50 compensation 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused by being unable to opt in to the 
interest rate earlier and the time hed spent in resolving this issue.
On 22 October Goldman Sachs sent a final response letter to Mr T in which it explained it 
had upheld his complaint and backdated his bonus rate. However, it omitted to address his 
request for compensation. 
On 29 October Mr T complained to Goldman Sachs that it had not dealt with his 
compensation request. Goldman Sachs accepted it had made an error in not commenting on 
that part of Mr Ts complaint. So, it apologised and credited his account with £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill. However, it told him it wouldnt award compensation for the website 
issues Mr T experienced because it had already backdated his bonus rate and restored him 
to the position hed have been in had he been able to opt in on 16 October.
Being dissatisfied with Goldman Sachs response Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think Goldman Sachs had made an error. They thought it 
had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly and provided adequate redress. But Mr T didnt agree 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was a technical issue with the Goldman Sachs website on 16 
October 2019, which prevented Mr T from opting in to his bonus interest rate. However, the crux of this complaint is whether Goldman Sachs acted fairly and reasonably in offering to 
put things right for Mr T.
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened 
must have been extremely frustrating. But Im pleased to see this problem resolved itself 
relatively quickly for Mr T as he was able to opt in to his bonus interest rate on 17 October 
2019.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that once Goldman Sachs was aware of the problem Mr T 
had experienced it acted promptly and correctly. I say this because at the outset it accepted 
that Mr Ts inability to opt in to his bonus interest rate on 16 October was caused by a 
technical issue it was experiencing with its website. And it didnt delay or protract matters 
when it investigated and put matters right for Mr T. Overall, Im satisfied it took immediate 
action.
Ive no doubt this was all inconvenient to Mr T. So Ive thought carefully about whether an 
award of compensation is justified here. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award I must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business error 
and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive been able to discount any concerns that Mr T suffered financial loss as a result of what 
happened. I say this because Goldman Sachs agreed to backdate Mr Ts bonus interest rate 
to 16 October 2019. This was the earliest point that this interest rate could have been 
applied as this is the date Mr T could have opted into it. So, Im satisfied Mr Ts savings will 
accrue interest as though hed been able to successfully opt into the bonus rate on 16 
October 2019. 
Ive gone on to consider whether an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr T said he was caused by what happened. He said he had to contact 
Goldman Sachs to explain why he wasnt able to opt in to the bonus interest rate on 16 
October and I recognise that he spent some time communicating over the telephone. I can 
understand how inconvenient that was. 
But while I appreciate the frustration Mr T must have felt having to contact Goldman Sachs 
Im pleased to see that it resolved both his interest rate difficulties and complaint promptly  
as Ive outlined already.
I can see why Mr T may feel Goldman Sachs should compensate him for the trouble and 
upset he was caused. But we arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id 
have asked it to apologise for what happened here and backdate the interest rate to the 
correct date. Its already done this and, while Mr T may disagree with me, Im satisfied that 
this fairly recognises the impact this all had on him. 
I can see Mr T has made our investigator aware that he was awarded compensation after 
referring previous complaints to our service. However, as our investigator explained this 
service decides whats fair and reasonable on a case by case basis after taking into account 
the individual circumstances of a consumers dispute  as Ive done here. So, I cant 
comment on how we resolved any previous complaints Mr T may have made.Goldman Sachs accepted it didnt deal with Mr Ts complaint as thoroughly as it could have 
done. It recognised it should have addressed his request for £50 compensation in its final 
response to his complaint. To reflect its omission it credited his account with £25.
As our investigator told Mr T, strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how 
financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the 
legislation that governs our service. Even if I did think Goldman Sachs hadnt done things 
well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of his concerns or make an 
award. So, I wont address this any further here.
I understand Mr T feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Goldman Sachs informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr T any 
further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman