DRN-2046111
The complaint
Mr L complains that World First UK Limited acted wrongly when it removed funds from his 
account against his instructions. 
To protect the identities of the parties involved, Ill refer to Mr Ls wife as W.
What happened
Mr L opened an account with World First in June 2017. The account was opened in the 
name of Mr L and W was added as an authorised user in September 2017  this provided W 
with full access to use Mr Ls account. 
On 16 May 2019 a trade was booked to convert $325,000 to sterling and transferred to a 
named bank account belonging to W. As Mr L was the primary account holder, he was 
notified by email of the trade and asked to confirm the details of the transaction. Mr L 
contacted World First to inform it of the break-up of his marriage and asked for the 
transaction to be cancelled. He asked for W to be removed from the account and he 
withdrew his consent for World First to discuss his account with her. World First cancelled 
the trade and returned the funds back to the original source which was Ws bank account. 
Unhappy that World First had done this, Mr L complained.
World First didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that under its terms and conditions if a 
trade is cancelled, World First returns the funds to the source account  this is the account 
from which payment is received. It noted that Mr L's complaint was about a dispute as to the 
ownership of the funds and said this wasnt something it could pass judgement on. World 
First said that as the funds were received from an account in the name of W, it was entitled 
to return the funds to her account. And as these funds werent directly received from an 
account belonging to Mr L, it considered it had no authority to retain the funds in his World 
First account. Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. In brief, he didnt think World First had 
done anything wrong as itd acted in line with its terms and conditions. He also considered 
World First had acted reasonably with the level of contact it had with W. Mr L disagreed and 
asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand how strongly Mr L feels about this complaint. He 
has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. Although I may not 
mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr L has said, but limited my 
findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.  I'll also mention at this stage that 
where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Theres no dispute that the funds came from, and were returned to, an account belonging 
to W. Further, when W placed the trade she had been given full access to the account by 
Mr L and was therefore entitled to place the trade. The issue in dispute is whether World 
First shouldve held the money in Mr Ls account once he withdrew his consent for W to use 
it. I appreciate this is a difficult time for Mr L, but looking at everything, Im satisfied that 
World First acted reasonably and fairly by returning the funds to Ws account. Ill explain 
why.
Mr L says the funds in question are part of complicated (divorce) legal proceedings between 
himself and W, so World First shouldve held the funds until the legal process was resolved. 
But World First didnt want to become involved in the marital dispute and take a position that 
meant taking a side with either party. Instead it relied on the terms of the account which, 
amongst other things, say: [World First] "If you fail to provide payment instructions on or 
before the Value Date we reserve the right to Close Out or reverse the currency conversion 
and return the funds to the bank or other account from which relevant currency was 
received".
Mr L says that this term doesnt fit his situation so shouldnt be relied on to defend the 
actions of World First. But I think once Mr L removed consent for W to use the account to 
complete the trade, World First could no longer take payment instructions from her. 
Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to return the funds to the bank or other 
account from which relevant currency was received. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr L says about the ownership of the funds, and the 
evidence hes provided to this service about this. As he himself acknowledges, this issue is 
subject matter of complicated court proceedings. Therefore, I think World First acted 
reasonably in taking a decision to decline to make the onward scheduled payment (trade)  
for which it could no longer take instruction from W who deposited the funds  and to return 
the funds to its original source.
Mr L considers World First mayve breached data protection laws and/ or its own privacy 
policy with its communication with W after he withdrew his consent. He also says information 
he obtained from World First under a subject access request has been heavily redacted, 
even though he suspects it involved discussions with W about his account. But its not within 
my remit to determine whether theres been a breach of data protection regulations. This is 
the remit of Information Commissioners Office, which I understand Mr L has already 
contacted. I have, of course, taken into account all relevant laws and regulations when 
deciding whether the business has acted fairly towards him. 
In reference to World Firsts privacy policy, the first thing to note is that Mr L did give full 
authority for W to use his account. Therefore, when he withdrew his consent, I think it was 
reasonable for World First to communicate with W to resolve any outstanding issues which 
had only occurred as a result of the consent that shed been previously given by Mr L. And 
once World First decided to return the funds to its source for the reasons outlined above, I 
think it was only fair and reasonable for it to take the practical steps it needed in order for 
this to happen  this inevitably involved some contact with W. Ive not seen any evidence 
that such communications went beyond what was reasonably necessary to return the funds 
to her.Mr L says that World First didnt inform him that the money was being returned to W as it 
shouldve done. I can understand that Mr L is upset about this. But even if World First had 
notified him, Im satisfied that, on balance, this would not have made any difference to its 
decision to return the funds to W. This was a decision based on the particular circumstances 
of the case with reference to the terms of the account. In any event, Mr L had full access to 
his account (online) and seems to have been regularly checking this.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman