DRN-3304455
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1997 and 2008. Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 1998, and also took out a PPI policy to cover the 
borrowing at that time. They took out a further advance in 2008 and also took out PPI to 
cover this, as well their main mortgage, which replaced their existing cover. Mr and Mrs M 
say that they were pressured into taking the policies and that they were unsuitable for them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. They felt that there wasnt enough evidence to 
show Mr and Mrs M were pressured into taking the policies and that Lloyds gave them a fair 
choice in taking them. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Weve 
set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below
Looking at the 1997 sale of PPI alongside the mortgage, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr 
and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. Lloyds has been 
able to give me a copy of the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs M completed. In 
this, there was a separate section for MortgageSure, which is the name of the PPI policy. I 
can see they had a clear yes or no option and they selected yes to confirm they wanted to 
take out the policy. And I think it was equally clear they could have selected no if they didnt 
want it. They went on to request that it be in Mr Ms name only, so I think they knew they 
could amend it to suit their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M then received a mortgage offer, which Ive seen a copy of. In this, it set out 
that they had chosen to take out PPI to cover Mr M only, and that the monthly cost was 
£11.53 at the time. Considering all of this, I think Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the PPI, 
knowing they didnt have to.
Mr and Mrs M then took out a further advance in 2008. Lloyds have given me a copy of the 
further advance application form, but the PPI section has not been filled in. Ive seen a letter 
dated two days after the further advance application form was signed that was handwritten 
by Mr M. In this, Mr M requested to take out PPI for £14.48. Considering this, I think that Mr 
and Mrs M chose to take out PPI to cover the additional borrowing. Just over a week later, 
they both signed a separate PPI application form and requested for Mr M to be covered 
under the policy. They indicated that they had previously had MortgageSure protecting their 
mortgage. In addition to this, the further advance offer stated that theyd opted to take out 
PPI and clearly explained that they were not obliged to take out the cover. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think that in both 1997 and 2008, 
Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI, knowing they didnt have to. I appreciate theyve said 
they felt pressured, but I havent seen enough to say its likely they were. And from what Ive 
seen, Lloyds gave them a fair choice in taking the policies at both stages.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of both sales, shows that 
the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example he was eligible 
for the cover and while he did have some sick pay and savings available to him, the policy 
could have covered him for up to 12 months per claim if he was too sick to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. And this would have been in addition to his sick pay, so I 
think he could have found it useful. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect his ability to claim.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs M as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and    
Mrs M would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
I do acknowledge and appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how their complaint 
has been handled by Lloyds, and I dont think Lloyds has been as prompt as they could have 
been. And I note Mr and Mrs M have pointed out their annual review statement appeared to 
be missing information. But ultimately, I dont think this therefore means their policies were    
mis-sold in 1997 and 2008.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policies in any event.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.   
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman