DRN-4161125
The complaint
Mr C complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase hasnt refunded him the 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator - when he wrote to 
Chase upholding Mr Cs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
In October 2022, Mr C was tricked into sending a scammer two Faster Payments 
transfers. The first was made at 7:15pm for the amount of £8,900 and the second 
around 64 minutes later for the sum of £550. 
Mr C made both payments in the belief that his Chase account was at risk and that 
he was acting to protect his money. 
This belief was based on telephone calls hed received, both purporting to originate 
with other financial organisations that Mr C banked with. These calls utilised genuine 
numbers for these organisations (a scam technique known as number spoofing).
The callers knew several details about Mr C, helping persuade him that the calls 
were genuinely from his bank and credit card provider. There were other features of 
the call that helped persuade him including, but not limited to, the scammers 
knowledge of the messages displayed by the Chase banking app.
After Mr C had made the payments, the caller asked him to provide account details 
for family members and friends. Mr C realised at this point the request wasnt 
genuine and that hed been scammed. 
He notified Chase of what had happened, and it attempted to retrieve the funds. 
However, the majority of the funds had been removed from the recipient account and 
Chase was only able to recover the sum of £2,125.25.
Chase declined to refund Mr C the remaining sum. It said Mr C had authorised the payments 
and it had no reason not to have carried out his instructions.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service, unhappy with Chases decision and the treatment 
hed received. One of our Investigators looked into it and recommended Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. 
Our Investigator accepted that Chase had an obligation to make the payments requested. 
But he said that as a matter of good industry practice, Chase should have been alert for out 
of character or unusual transactions and other signs that might indicate a significant risk of 
financial harm to its customers. He thought that this applied here, and that Chase ought to 
have contacted Mr C to discuss the payment instructions prior to processing them. Had it 
done so, the scam would have been uncovered and Mr C would not have lost these funds.
As a result, the Investigator said Chase should now settle the complaint by reimbursing Mr C 
for the outstanding loss together with interest from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement. He said it needed to also rework Mr Cs account to remove any charges or 
account interest he had incurred as a result of these payments leaving his account. And in 
light of the distress and inconvenience Mr C had suffered Chase should pay additional 
compensation.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 27 April 2023 with a deadline for 
responding of 11 May 2023. Mr C responded to confirm his acceptance. While Chase has 
been in contact with the Investigator to confirm its receipt of his conclusions, as yet it has 
failed to respond substantively to the Investigators view. This is despite the Investigators 
deadline having expired some considerable time ago, and the Investigator efforts to obtain a 
response including resending his findings through an alternate channel of communication.
In the light of this significant delay, the matter has been escalated to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may: 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by 
a party to provide information requested; 
And that 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a substantive response from Chase to the 
Investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and to take account of Chases failure to provide any substantive 
reply to the Investigators opinion. I do not consider it would be fair here to allow Chase 
further time than it has already had in which to provide further evidence or arguments. It has 
already had ample time and opportunity to do so.
Ive considered whether Chase ought to have intervened during the course of the payments 
that Mr C was sending. I think these payments were sufficiently unusual and out of character 
that as a matter of good industry practice Chase ought to have contacted Mr C to reassure 
itself he was not at risk of financial harm. 
Had Chase done so, I am satisfied that the scam would have readily been uncovered  I find 
it would have been immediately apparent to Chase what was happening, given its 
knowledge of the prevalence of this type of scam. As such these two payments would not 
have been made, and Mr C would not now be without the money. 
I dont consider Mr C should share any liability for the resultant loss through contributory negligence. I am satisfied he was the innocent victim of a sophisticated deception designed 
to steal his money, and he was not responsible for what happened. Chase was the financial 
professional in this situation and aware of the specific risk of this type of scam. In contrast, 
Mr C was the layperson here. I have also taken into consideration that Mr C has evidenced 
what I consider to have been a relevant vulnerability at the time in question (which he has 
previously made Chase aware of and which I therefore do not need to detail here). 
Although most of Mr Cs distress and inconvenience resulted from the criminal acts of the 
fraudsters, I think Chase could have done more to protect him from the scam and the impact 
of this, given both good industry practice and its statutory duty to co-operate with our 
complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). In all 
the circumstances I consider £350 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be 
appropriate. I am aware that this is a higher figure than that previously awarded by the 
Investigator. But given where we are in the complaint journey, and the fact compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this 
case. 
And all considered, I am satisfied that it would be appropriate to require Chase to add 
interest to the full sum outstanding at the rate of 8% simple per year. While the Investigator 
suggested a slightly lower rate could be applied in respect of funds originating from Mr Cs 
other account, I consider it fair and reasonable (again taking account of where we are in the 
complaint journey) to apply 8% simple per year to the whole sum, to reflect the fact he has 
been deprived of the use of all of those funds for the period of time he has.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of the case is that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase should:
Refund Mr C the balance of the money he lost as a result of the scam, being the sum 
of £7,324.75. It should do so within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision; plus,
Pay Mr C interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax 
properly deductible) from the date of the payments the date of settlement; 
Rework Mr Cs account to remove and charges or interest he may have incurred as a 
result of these payments being made; and,
Pay Mr C £350 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of 
receiving notification of their acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest 
will thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint about J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman