DRN-3850539
The complaint
X complains about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds decision 
to decline a claim and cancel her horse and rider insurance policy and other policies she had 
with them
What happened
The background to this complaint is very well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a 
brief summary here.
X had a horse and rider insurance policy underwritten by NFU to cover her horse, which Ill 
call B. She also had two other equine insurance policies and a policy to cover her tractor.
Before she purchased B, X had a vet inspect the horse. The inspection noted two small 
circular skin lesions. The appearance of these, according to the vet, was consistent with 
ringworm.
When she bought her policy, in September 2019, X provided a copy of the vets report to 
NFU.
In September 2021, X made a claim (for around £1,400) relating to veterinary treatment of B 
for sarcoids. X had taken B to the vet after noticing lumps in Bs ear and stifle.
NFU appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. They investigated the claim and at one 
point interviewed X about the background to the claim.
NFU then rejected the claim and cancelled all of Xs policies. They said she had 
misrepresented the facts about her claim.
X complained, but NFU maintained their stance. So, X brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NFU had acted fairly or reasonably in their 
handling of Xs claim and in cancelling her policies. She said NFU should pay the claim (with 
8% simple interest), remove any record of their cancellation of the policies, and pay X £500 
for her trouble and upset.
NFU disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I agreed with the outcome proposed by our investigator but for different reasons, I 
issued a provisional decision. That allowed both X and NFU a chance to provide further 
information or evidence and/or comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision in 
this case. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded to uphold Xs complaint and to require NFU to take the remedial actions 
suggested by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill start with the terms of Xs policy, which arent disputed in this case.
The terms say that NFU wont pay for any treatment for conditions that pre-existed 
the inception of the policy.
They also say that NFU will pay for treatment only for the first 52 weeks after the date 
that the condition first appears.
And they say that if the policyholder makes a claim which is fraudulent or intentionally 
exaggerated, or misrepresents, misdescribes or withholds any material fact, NFU 
will be entitled to void or cancel the policy and not pay any claim.
Ill turn now to what I see as the facts of the case. If X or NFU think Im mistaken, 
then they have the chance now to correct my mistake(s) in response to this 
provisional decision.
The evidence from the vets involved in this case appears now to suggest that B had 
sarcoids at the time X purchased him. And that this condition progressed from the 
two small lesions noted at the pre-purchase veterinary inspection (in September 
2019) to further lesions and then larger lumps on Bs ear and stifle.
B was treated for sarcoids in October 2021 - and its the cost of this treatment that 
prompted X to make her claim to NFU in September 2021.
So, it appears to me that in fact, the sarcoids were a pre-existing condition, which 
had started before the policy was taken out in September 2019.
Strictly speaking then, if we apply the terms of the policy as set down in the policy 
booklet very literally, the cost of Bs treatment in October 2021 isnt covered.
However, I also have to consider whether this very strict application of the terms of 
the policy is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I dont think X could conceivably have known, when she bought B and took out the 
policy, that B had or may have had sarcoids. X was entitled to rely on the expert 
veterinary advice shed commissioned. And I bear in mind that she provided that 
report to NFU at the time and they took no further action and accepted Xs business.
We take the view that in circumstances like this  where the policyholder couldnt 
reasonably have known there was a problem  it would be unfair to decline a claim 
on the basis that the treatment was for a pre-existing condition.
As far as X was concerned when she purchased B  and bought the policy  B had a 
minor issue with ringworm. There was absolutely no indication from the vet that 
sarcoids was a possibility.
I dont believe NFU are suggesting X made a misrepresentation of the facts when 
she bought the policy  if they are, that would appear perverse given that X gave 
them a copy of the vets report.They are saying the condition was pre-existing. And I agree, based on what has 
transpired since then and based on the expert veterinary evidence about the likely 
course and progress of sarcoids. But Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to X to decline 
her claim on that basis.
The same logic would apply to the policy term which says NFU will only pay for 
treatment for 52 weeks after the condition first appears.
Taking a very strict interpretation of the terms, given that Bs sarcoids appear to have 
started before X bought him in 2019, the treatment (in October 2021) giving rise to 
the claim is clearly more than 52 weeks after the condition first arose.
However, wed think that would be unfair to X, if she remained unaware of the 
condition until some point in the period after October 2020 (52 weeks before the 
treatment), at least unless there was a convincing argument that she ought to have 
been aware of it before then.
So, the key question then becomes, was X aware  or ought she to have been aware 
 that B had sarcoids at any point before October 2020.
This is doubly important in this case because its in relation to this very question that 
NFU have suggested X misrepresented the facts.
When NFU wrote to X to explain that they might cancel her policies  and why  their 
reasons for believing she may have misrepresented the facts were set out in detail.
They said when she was interviewed by the loss adjuster, shed said she first noticed 
the issues which caused her to seek the October 2021 veterinary treatment for B in 
February 2020.
But when shed rung to make the claim, shed said she first noticed those issues in 
February 2021. NFU implied, although they didnt say this directly, that X changed 
the date to February 2021 only after shes been reminded of the 52-week limit on 
claims.
They said when she made the claim, shed also said B had lumps on his skin. And 
when asked if hed ever had anything like that before, she answered no. But in the 
clinical notes from her own vet  in relation to a visit in October 2019  it was noted 
that the lesions previously noted at the pre-purchase inspection were, two circular 
areas of alopecia containing several smaller raised lumps.
They said that in her statement shed said she tried to ignore the lumps, which got 
bigger and bigger. But when she made her claim, shed said B hadnt ever had 
anything like this (the lumps) before and they were first noticed in February (2021).
And they said shed said in her statement that shed never discussed the issues with 
any other professional prior to taking B to the vet who treated him in October 2021. 
But the clinical notes from her own vet said the possibility of sarcoids was discussed 
in October 2019.
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think NFUs arguments stand up. 
Its not entirely clear to me whether they dropped any of their allegations of 
misrepresentation after X responded to the letter which suggested they might cancel 
her policies. But Im satisfied on the basis of the evidence available at present that it 
would be unfair to maintain that X had deliberately misled NFU when she made the claim or the loss adjuster when she was interviewed. Ill explain why.
X tells us she first became aware of the issues  the lumps in the ear and stifle  
which caused her to seek the October treatment for B, in February 2021. Thats also 
what she told NFU when she made the claim. And I dont think she changed her 
version of events in that claim phone call in response to being reminded about the 
52-week limit in the policy.
X says she confused the dates when she was interviewed by the loss adjuster. On 
balance, Im inclined to believe her. She has told us that she had a number of 
personal issues to contend with at the time and that may explain the temporary 
confusion about the dates.
But what she tells us also tallies with the evidence from Bs veterinary records. After 
February 2020, there are notes relating to several interactions with the vets and at 
none of those are any issues with the ear or stifle mentioned.
These include a visit in March 2020, when the lesions were addressed and were still 
regarded as probably related with ring worm. There was a telephone consultation in 
June 2020 about one of the skin lesions. There were several visits to administer 
vaccines in October and November 2020 and in May 2021. And there were visits 
regarding a cut leg in June 2021.
Where the skin lesions were addressed in these visits, they were still said to be likely 
to be caused by ringworm  although sarcoids is mentioned as a possibility, if the 
ringworm medication didnt clear up the problem. And in none of the visits was there 
any mention of a large (ping pong ball sized) lump in Bs ear or a lump in the stifle.
That suggests very strongly to me that the issues which led X to take B to the vet in 
October 2021  that is, the large lumps in the ear and the stifle  werent in evidence 
until after June 2021 at the earliest.
Im also inclined to believe that X was being entirely honest when she discussed the 
lumps with NFU and the loss adjuster.
She of course mentioned the lumps in the ear and stifle when she made the claim 
(thats what she was claiming for). When she was asked if B had experienced 
anything like that before, I think she could reasonably answer no. The lumps 
noted by the vet in October 2019 were smaller raised lumps within a lesion the size 
of a 50p coin. I dont think its unreasonable not to connect those small, raised areas 
with a lump the size of a ping pong ball in Bs ear.
Im sure X did say, when interviewed by the loss adjuster, that shed tried to ignore 
the lumps  in the ear and stifle  until they got bigger and bigger. But when NFU 
questioned X about that, they didnt suggest that the loss adjuster had asked X about 
the time frame.
Theres no suggestion  at least not in the letter NFU sent to X to ask her to account 
for the supposed contradictions in her evidence - that shed said the lumps had been 
evident before February 2021. She simply said, in effect, shed hoped theyd go away 
 she didnt say when or for how long shed been aware of them.
Finally, NFU said X had said in her statement shed never discussed the issues with 
a veterinary professional before she sought treatment for B in October 2021. They 
said this contradicted a discussion with her vet in October 2019, when the lesions were agreed to be treated as if they were ring worm, but there was a possibility they 
were sarcoids.
Again, I dont think theres a persuasive case that what X said was intentionally 
misleading. For her, at the time, the issues were the lumps in the ear and stifle 
(which is what she was claiming for).
She hadnt discussed those with a veterinary professional before she sought 
treatment in October 2021. They may have been caused by the same condition as 
the earlier skin lesions, but I dont think it was disingenuous of X not to associate the 
two at the time.
Ill try to summarise my views on this case, based on the evidence I have available at 
present. And, as I say, X and/or NFU have the opportunity now to provide more 
information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking if they believe Im 
mistaken.
First, the sarcoids were in fact a pre-existing condition. But nonetheless, it wouldnt 
be fair in all the circumstances to decline Xs claim on that basis, even if a very strict 
interpretation of the policy terms would allow that. And thats because X couldnt 
have been aware of the condition when she bought the policy.
Second, it wouldnt be fair  for the same reasons  to decline the claim on the basis 
that more than 52 weeks had passed between the condition first appearing and the 
treatment. The condition was in fact there more than 52 weeks before the treatment, 
but X didnt know about it until within 52 weeks. And nor would it be fair to say she 
ought to have known about it.
Third, I cant see any persuasive evidence at present to suggest that X intentionally 
exaggerated the claim and/or mispresented or misdescribed it and/or withheld 
information about it.
If I take a step back and look at the wider picture, what we have here appears to be a 
policyholder who bought a policy in good faith, who later found that her horse had 
health problems she hadnt known about, and who expected her insurance to cover 
treatment for those problems.
I cant see any logic at present that would explain how and why X had any interest in 
either buying a horse with health problems, failing to disclose those health problems 
to NFU, or delaying treatment for her horse after it became apparent that treatment 
would be needed.
If NFU have any reason to believe that Ive missed the motivation that might be 
driving X to behave dishonestly in that way, Im sure theyll let me know about it in 
response to this provisional decision.
This experience must have been stressful and upsetting for X. Shes been accused 
of dishonesty, over a prolonged period. And shes been worried that shell either 
struggle to obtain insurance in future or that shell have to pay significantly higher 
premiums for it. So, Im minded to agree with our investigator that NFU should 
compensate her by paying her £500 for her trouble and upset.
And for those reasons, I said NFU should pay for the treatment in October 2021 (with 
interest) ensure that any records of their cancellation of Xs policies were deleted and pay X 
£500 in compensation for her trouble and upset.The response to my provisional decision
X responded to my provisional decision simply to say that she agreed with my conclusions 
and had nothing more to add.
NFU responded in more detail. They dont agree with my provisional decision. Ill try to 
summarise their arguments and Ill number them for ease of reference. NFU will no doubt 
forgive me for not repeating them verbatim.
1. NFU say that when X sought treatment for the lumps in Bs ear and stifle  in August 
2021  she knew those lumps were related to the lesions elsewhere on Bs body (she 
sent the vet photographs of the lumps and the lesions). And that therefore she knew 
the other lesions were likely sarcoids.
2. X said in her claim call that the lumps in the ear and stifle had been noticed and were 
on-going issues by February 2021. Which meant that by February 2021 at the latest, 
she was well aware of the condition for which she eventually sought treatment in 
August 2021 (and for which she then put in the claim).  
3. The treatment plan formulated by the vets in August 2021 (to begin in October 2021) 
was headed sarcoid treatment and was a plan to cover both the ear and stifle lumps 
and the other skin lesions. 
4. That treatment plan mentions that X had already been treating the horse with a 
dietary supplement called Sarc-Ex and with Thuja cream (a herbal remedy), which 
are both used to treat sarcoids.
5. In the claim call, X says she noticed the condition in February (the year wasnt 
specified) but goes on to say that she should have lied about that in order to bring the 
treatment within the 52 weeks.
6. At the point she made that call, X already had the treatment plan. So, she knew by 
then that the ear and stifle issues were caused by the same condition as the earlier 
skin lesions. And so, she knew the condition had first presented in 2019. But she said 
she first became aware of the condition in February. 
7. The veterinary reports from 2019 and 2020 identified that the lesions could be 
sarcoids. And although ringworm was also still suspected, the plan was for X to treat 
for ringworm and monitor developments. And if she had done that (effectively), then it 
would  or should  have become apparent that the lesions werent caused by 
ringworm  and so X should at least have been aware that the condition was 
sarcoids in 2019 or relatively soon after.
8. In her interview statement, X said shed been worried about bringing ringworm into 
her yard but was no longer concerned once she knew ringworm wasnt an issue. 
Which shows she knew that her horses condition wasnt ringworm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at the arguments NFU have put forward in response to my 
provisional decision. And on reflection, I can see that some confusion may have been caused by my not being entirely clear about my thoughts on the significance of the problems 
with Bs ear and stifle.
As I said in my provisional decision, we take the view that it would be unfair to decline a 
claim on the basis that the condition was pre-existing  even though strictly the policy terms 
allow that  if the customer wasnt aware of the condition (as long as theres no persuasive 
argument that they should have been aware of it).
In this case, theres no suggestion that X knew B had sarcoids before she took out the 
policy. The policy says NFU will pay for treatment only for the first 52 weeks of any condition. 
In our view  and for the same reason that we say its unfair to decline a claim if the 
customer wasnt aware of a pre-existing condition - its fair to start that 52-week clock only 
when X became aware  or should have become aware  that B had sarcoids.
X says that she became concerned about the ear and stifle lumps  after February 2021  
when they got to a certain size. She admits to some element of wishing the problem away 
(although she certainly doesnt put any dates on that). 
We know now that the lumps were part of the same condition  sarcoids  that caused the 
original lesions. Thats not in dispute. And I think it would be fair to suggest that X was or 
should have been aware  from February 2021  that the condition wasnt ringworm. And 
that should have caused her to find out what the condition actually was.
So, Im satisfied that X was aware  or should have been aware (if shed sought appropriate 
veterinary assistance as soon as it was appropriate)  that B had sarcoids from 20 February 
2021, the date she mentioned in her claim call. That would mean the 52 weeks runs until 
February 2022. Beyond that, I dont think NFU are responsible for any further treatment 
payments for this condition.
Some of the arguments put forward by NFU in response to my provisional decision (numbers 
1 and 3 in the list above) are to show that X knew the problems with the ear and stifle were 
related to the earlier lesions  and that they were all sarcoids - in August 2021, when she 
sought treatment and the treatment plan was put together by her vet.
I dont think thats in dispute. Indeed, Im satisfied X knew (or should have known) they were 
all related  and were sarcoids  by February 2021 (the NFUs argument listed at 2 above 
makes this point).
As Ive said, if that was the first point at which X became aware (or ought to have been 
aware) of the condition, that would push the 52-week period of cover through to February 
2022.
But I think NFUs argument (listed at number 6 above) is that X therefore knew the full story 
about the condition before she made her claim call in September 2021. So, she knew the 
original lesions were sarcoids. 
And yet she said shed only become aware of the condition in February 2021, when in fact, 
shed been aware of the lesions (which she now knew to be sarcoids) since buying the horse 
in 2019, or soon thereafter. So, she lied in the claim call.
I can see that argument and I understand what NFU are saying. However, I dont agree with 
their conclusions. I dont think it would be unreasonable for X to believe that the NFUs agent 
was asking her when she became aware B had sarcoids  rather than when she first noticed 
any symptom(s) that later turned out to be sarcoids.  The claim call transcript shows that X was asked when shed first spotted the problem and 
initially said 20 August (2021). It became clear that was when shed actually sought 
veterinary help. So, the NFU agent followed that up and asked when the symptoms 
presented themselves.
In the context, I think that question can be read in any number of ways. When was the first 
indication of this condition (the question I think NFU wanted to ask)? When were the first 
symptoms which caused you to seek this treatment? When did you definitively know it was 
sarcoids?
And when X hesitantly estimated 20 February (because thats when the issues with the ear 
and stifle which later caused her to seek further treatment first came into focus), there was 
no further discussion. The agent simply said X didnt have to be precise or exact and entered 
the date on to the NFU database.
I cant know what was in Xs head when she answered that question  and nor can NFU. But 
there is a perfectly reasonable reading of the conversation which suggests X was trying to 
recall the date when it became apparent to her  from the symptoms as they presented 
themselves (primarily the ear and stifle lumps)  that the issue wasnt ringworm and might be 
something more serious.
Because there was no further discussion of that point, I think it would be very harsh to 
assume that X purposely tried to deceive the NFU agent. It would certainly be harsh to take 
that as definitive justification for the drastic action NFU later took in cancelling all of Xs 
policies. NFU certainly couldnt be said to have given X the benefit of any doubt about what 
shed said during the call.
NFU also argue that X knew the problem was sarcoids before August 2021 because shed 
been treating B with Sarc-Ex and Thuja cream (see 5 in the list set out above).
I believe the efficacy of both of those treatments is disputed. But the main points for me in 
making this decision are as follows. 
One, both treatments are said (by their supporters and/or those who sell them) to help with a 
wider range of ailments than sarcoids. 
Sarc-Ex is claimed to help with any issues affecting or related to a horses immune system, 
including many skin problems. Thuja cream is similarly claimed to help with a range of 
issues. According to some sources, both might be used to treat ringworm. So, I dont think 
Xs use of those supposed remedies proves she knew B had sarcoids. 
And two, in any case, Xs use of them is mentioned in the August 2021 treatment plan. Its 
not clear from that plan how long X had been using the treatments. And from that evidence 
one couldnt reasonably conclude that X had been using them before February 2021 (the 
date at which she herself says she became aware of the symptoms which prompted her to 
seek the further veterinary treatment).
NFU have made much of Xs statement, during the claim call, that she should have lied 
about when the symptoms first presented themselves.
They seemed initially to suggest this implied shed first noticed the symptoms in February 
2020, not 2021. Because the latter date wouldnt have put the treatment beyond the 52-week 
cut off.
When I look at the call transcript that argument  if it is one that NFU were making  is clearly spurious. X is clearly concerned because the treatment plan for B goes on beyond 
February 2022 and wont be covered beyond that date. She is very clearly assuming the 52-
week period to start in February 2021 and end in February 2022.
NFU have also implied (see argument number 5 in the list above) that Xs statement shows 
that she was willing to lie in order to get the cover she needed for B. 
Again, I cant agree with that. X saying she should have lied is in fact an indication that she 
didnt lie (but should have if she wanted to get all the treatment covered). Its also perfectly 
reasonable to see that as a throw away comment, more intended to express Xs 
dissatisfaction with the fine details of the policy and the restriction on NFUs liability than any 
expression of intent.
NFUs argument set out at 7 in the list above suggests that X should have known that 
sarcoids were the issue if shed done what was necessary  on veterinary advice  to rule 
out ringworm. In other words, if shed treated for ringworm as advised, it would have been 
apparent much earlier that ringworm wasnt the issue.
Im aware that the vets in 2019 and 2020 noted that the problem might conceivably be 
sarcoids. However, on each occasion, ringworm was still seen as the prime suspect. It 
wasnt unreasonable for X to assume the problem was likely ringworm based on that 
veterinary advice.
There may have been a minor delay in X starting treatment for ringworm, but the records 
show that medication for ringworm and/or infection was prescribed in October 2019 and on 
three occasions in the first half of 2020. 
Theres no evidence to suggest X didnt use the prescribed medication. And indeed, it would 
be perverse for her to have obtained further prescriptions if she wasnt in fact using it and/or 
had no intention of doing so.
In her interview statement, X says there was one occasion in 2019 where a vet prescribed 
wash treatments for ringworm and nothing changed so I didnt follow on. 
Reading that in context, I dont think X was saying she treated for ringworm, but it dont clear 
up, so she did nothing. I think shes referring specifically to the wash treatments. And its 
clear, as I say above, that the other ringworm medication continued to be prescribed.
Finally, at argument number 8 in the above list, NFU say Xs interview statement shows she 
knew the problem wasnt ringworm because she referred to her concerns about ringworm 
spreading to her other horses coming to an end.
Its not clear from the statement what the operative date was here (the date at which Xs 
concerns about ringworm ceased). It may have been after February 2021, when X has in 
any case admitted she no longer suspected ringworm. 
Its also not entirely clear what the meaning of this part of the statement is. It would make no 
sense, for example, to bring B back into closer proximity to other horses if ringworm had 
been ruled out but sarcoids was now the issue, because sarcoids can also be spread 
between horses by flies.
In summary, I can see that NFU feel strongly about this case. And I can see that there are 
things X said  in haste or in frustration  which may have caused NFU to become 
suspicious about the circumstances of the claim.However, on balance and taking all the evidence and information into account, I remain of 
the same view about the two key issues in this case.
First, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that X most likely knew that B had a 
problem with sarcoids until around 20 February 2021. All the veterinary advice up to that 
point appears to have suggested that the symptoms were most likely caused by ringworm. X 
appears to have followed that veterinary advice and so Im satisfied its not the case that she 
should have known the problem was sarcoids before February 2021. 
And second, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude, on balance, that X intentionally 
provided false or misleading information to NFU when she made the claim. Ive explained my 
reasons for coming to that conclusion above and in my provisional decision.
And I would also reiterate that I still cant see any conceivable reason why X would delay 
seeking treatment for sarcoids if she knew or suspected B had that condition. Nor can I see 
any logic by which she would have delayed doing that in order to gain an advantage in terms 
of the cover NFU provide through Xs policy.
Putting things right
Given the conclusions Ive reached, as set out above, I havent changed my mind about the 
outcome of this case. Im still going to require NFU to take the actions specified in my 
provisional decision.
To be clear about the claim, Im saying that the 52-week period of cover begins on 20 
February 2021, for the reasons outlined above. NFU should pay for the treatment related to 
this particular condition up until 19 February 2022, in line with the other terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
Beyond that date, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for NFU to apply the 52-
week limit and refuse any further payment for treatment relating to this condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Xs complaint.
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must:
pay Xs claim for the cost of treatment for Bs condition up until 19 February 2021, in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (adding interest at 8% 
simple per annum from the date X paid for the treatment to the date NFU pay her);
ensure that any record of  or relating to - the cancellation of Xs policies and/or the 
alleged misrepresentation is removed from their own and any other databases or 
records;
pay X £500 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman