DRN-3970144
The complaint
Mr J complains about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim on 
his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In December 2021 he made a 
claim after an immersion tank at the property failed and caused an escape of water to the 
room below. AXA accepted the claim.
Mr J arranged an emergency plumber to fix the leak. AXA then asked Mr J to obtain two 
quotes for the repair work. Mr J provided these, which were both around £7,000. AXA 
subsequently said it would settle the claim for £845.81, later increasing this offer to 
£1,593.81 less the £350 policy excess. 
Mr J was unhappy with this offer as it was significantly less than the quotes he had obtained. 
He said hed paid for the cheaper of the two quotes and had the work carried out as he 
needed to get it completed before Christmas when he was having guests to stay and AXA 
was taking a long time to respond. 
He made a complaint and in response AXA confirmed that its offer of 1,593.81 less the 
excess was its full and final settlement offer. So Mr J asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
AXA hadnt done enough to show that its offer of 1,593.81 was sufficient for the work 
required. So she said it should pay the total cost of the work less the policy excess. She also 
recommended it pay £250 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
Mr J accepted our investigators outcome. However AXA didnt. It said it thought the quotes 
obtained were excessive so it asked its own contractors to price the repairs, and the 
settlement is based on that quote. It also said Mr J prejudiced his position by having the 
work carried out which meant AXA was unable to inspect the damage.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has provided very limited information in response to this complaint and to this services 
questions about the complaint as part of our investigation of it. This has made it very difficult 
to assess and delayed matters further. AXA has had ample time to respond to our requests 
and I therefore am assessing the complaint based on the information it has provided to date. 
AXA said the quotes Mr J provided were excessive and instead asked its contractor to quote 
for the work. Its said that the full cost of these works (without applying its trade discount) is 
the final settlement it offered - £1,593.81, so its acted fairly by offering this. 
Ive considered this and I dont agree AXA has acted fairly when settling this claim. The 
quotes Mr J obtained were both from contractors who attended his property to inspect the 
damage. While AXA initially said it would conduct a video call to view the damage when it 
happened, this was never carried out. And it didnt send a loss adjuster either. Instead its 
relied on photos of the damage in order to put together a quote. 
Mr J has said that on closer inspection of the damage it was found by the contractors that 
the whole ceiling would need to be replaced due to it previously being artexed, and a repair 
wouldnt provide a sufficient finish. And that water had spread across the whole floor of the 
room warping the floorboards across a larger area than was initially evident. So I think it 
likely that the damage evident in the photos isnt a full picture of the damage that required 
repair.
Mr J had two contractors attend to quote for repairs and both quoted around £7,000. As 
AXAs contractors didnt attend, and Mr J has provided opinion from two different 
contractors, I consider it more likely that these are an accurate reflection of the cost of 
repairs.
AXA has said that Mr J prejudiced his position by having the repairs completed before it was 
able to inspect the damage or authorised the work. While I would usually expect a 
policyholder to seek authorisation before having the repairs carried out, I dont think Mr J 
acted unreasonably here. AXA had the opportunity to send a loss adjuster out and initially 
said it would carry out a video consultation, however this didnt transpire. In fact it wasnt 
until two months after the event that AXA confirmed its settlement amount. And during this 
time Mr J experienced issues in getting a response from it. 
The damage to the effected room was significant. There was a hole in the ceiling and the 
floor and walls were damp. Had Mr J not taken any action during that two months, then the 
damage would likely have got worse. Further, it happened before the Christmas period when 
he had family coming to stay, so I understand why hed want to have the work carried out. 
Additionally, AXAs slow progress and poor communication meant that Mr J had little 
confidence in when the repairs would be carried out if he waited. 
So as AXA had the opportunity to inspect the damage, and Mr J had reason to act promptly 
to have the repairs carried out, I dont agree its fair for AXA to say Mr J prejudiced his 
position by doing so. 
Based on this, I dont think AXA has acted fairly by settling the claim based on its own 
contractors quote. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should reimburse Mr J the 
£7,026 he paid for the repairs, less the £350 excess. 
Further, AXA has provided poor service while dealing with Mr Js claim. It has taken a long 
time to respond to correspondence and it wasnt proactive in its initial response to the claim, 
which led to the damage not being properly inspected by it which has subsequently led to 
this complaint. Based on this, I agree with our investigator that it should pay Mr J £250 
compensation to make up for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:Reimburse Mr J the £7,026 he paid for the repairs, less the £350 excess.
Pay Mr J £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman