DRN-3628120
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have closed his accounts without explaining the 
reason.
What happened
Mr H has been a loyal customer of Lloyds and in 2022 was informed that his accounts were 
being closed following an internal review. Mr H didnt receive any further information.
Mr H was perplexed as to the reason. He was also concerned about moving banks as it 
takes time and is inconvenient. In addition, he was worried about the impact on his credit 
rating.
When he complained to Lloyds, they said the decision followed a review and they were 
acting appropriately in line with the terms of Mr Hs accounts.
Mr H complained to our service as he would like an explanation and wants Lloyds to 
reinstate his accounts.
Our investigator couldnt see that Lloyds had done anything wrong.
As Mr H remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr H and the following is the reason for my decision.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs strong feelings here, a bank is entitled to close an account with a 
customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. However, when doing so, it 
must comply with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, I checked the Lloyds terms and conditions which state:
If we decide to close your account, we will write to you at least two months before, 
explaining our position unless this would mean we would be breaking any law, regulation, 
code, obligation or duty (including to our staff). We wont write to you two months before if 
we are closing your account because you have used it or tried to use it for illegal activity, or 
you have provided incorrect information or have acted in an abusive, threatening or violent 
way.
I also checked the notice period Lloyds gave Mr H and could see this was two months. 
So, although I understand the upset and impact of Lloyds decision on Mr H, Im satisfied it 
was a decision they were entitled to take, and theyve done so within their terms and 
conditions. Also, regarding Mr Hs credit file this will show the account has been closed so I 
cant see there will be an impact on this.
As I appreciate Mr H is concerned Lloyds havent made a fair decision, I asked for further 
information. However, Lloyds position remains the same, that theyd completed a review and 
made a business decision to close his accounts. They also confirmed they had followed the 
correct procedure for closing the accounts and, as Mr H had complained rather than 
appealed, they: 
Retrospectively, completed an independent review of the closure decision. The outcome of 
this review is that the correct decision had been made previously.
I did consider Mr Hs point that he hadnt received the above stated terms and conditions 
due to his account being opened such a long time ago. However, I think it likely that Lloyds 
would have made Mr H aware of a number of changes in this time including terms and 
conditions. Also, they are entitled to decide who to continue to do business with and have 
given notice. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr H frustration at the lack of a detailed explanation, Lloyds doesnt have 
to give a reason for closing his accounts. So, I cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr H this information. Also, our service isnt the regulator of banks processes, 
procedures, policies, and banks are entitled to make commercial decisions. So, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman