DRN-3300804
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC wont refund all the money she lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 27 January 2022 covered 
the detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Miss Ds testimony. But briefly 
Miss D made a number of payments between 6 January 2021 and 16 January 2021 totalling 
£30,297 to a number of different beneficiaries. She believed she was making payments 
towards an investment.
Miss D told us that in late December/early January 2021, she met an individual on an online 
dating application who she began messaging through a popular instant messaging forum. 
Unfortunately, unbeknown to Miss D at the time, the individual was in fact a fraudster. After 
the pair had been speaking for a few days, the fraudster explained that he had made a lot of 
money investing, and that his uncle had insider knowledge of when to invest to make profits. 
He told Miss D there was no risk with investing due to his uncles knowledge and she could 
expect profits of 15-25%. 
Miss D had access to a portal where she could she view her investment returns. She 
researched this portal on the internet, and it showed as a legitimate foreign exchange broker 
(but shes since discovered there was a discrepancy of one letter between the genuine and 
fake broker). When she asked to withdraw her funds, she was asked to make a payment for 
taxes. It was at this point she realised she had been scammed and she reported the matter 
to Metro on 21 January 2021.
The first payment was fully recovered and returned to Miss D, along with partial funds of 
£1,759.57 from another bank. Metro also agreed to refund 50% on all but the first transfer 
(which had been fully recovered). However, it thought Miss D should be liable for the other 
50% of the payments because it didnt think she had a reasonable basis for belief.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt Miss D did not have a reasonable 
basis for belief and that Metro had already refunded Miss D for its failing in providing an 
effective warning.
Miss D responded saying her circumstances at the time were difficult. The investigator then 
also considered whether Miss D had vulnerabilities such that she was unable to protect 
herself from the scam. However, the investigator concluded that as Miss D was able to 
question the fraudster about the investment and had the ability to research the investment, 
so she didnt think Miss Ds circumstances impacted her ability to protect herself from the 
scam.
Miss D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Miss D has asked me to delay making this decision until later in the year when a proposed 
consultation on APP reimbursement is due to take place. But I dont need to wait for this - as 
any changes in legislation cant be applied retrospectively. As Ive said above, I need to look 
at Miss Ds case based on what is relevant at the time. 
I have carefully noted the representations made by Miss D, but I wont be addressing every 
single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the points 
havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an 
outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead 
concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Miss D has referred to a case from our website. I dont know the finer details of that 
particular case - but each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the 
face of it) to be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case. Just 
looking at the summary details of the case, I can see there are two major differences here 
though. This was an in-branch transaction and so something known as the Banking Protocol 
applied here. This only applies to branch-based transactions and is not relevant in Miss Ds 
case. It is also worth noting that the transactions were significantly larger than the ones Miss 
D made  being £25,000 each.
I accept Miss D did fall victim to a scam but, there is no automatic right to a refund for victims 
of fraud. In fact, the relevant regulations (and the terms of her account) make Miss D 
responsible for payments shes made herself in the first instance. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute here that Miss D authorised 
the payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Metro should have reimbursed Miss D in line with the 
provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code) it has signed up to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss D from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss D was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
was making an investment, and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for Miss 
D to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care 
on Miss D too. I appreciate Miss D may not have been aware of The Code at the time of 
making the payment. However, the code is a voluntary arrangement for banks signed up to 
it. It has essentially led to some customers receiving reimbursements when perhaps before it 
came into effect  a refund  in full or in part from a bank - might not have been possible.   
As well as looking at whether Miss D met the requirements of the code for a refund to apply, 
I have also considered what I think is fair and reasonable when considering cases like this. 
And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for customers to take some responsibility for their 
decisions as well.
The CRM CodeMetro has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. Metro 
has refunded 50% of Miss Ds loss as it feels it didnt provide an effective warning when Miss 
D made the transactions; accepting that it ought to have done more and recognising that 
means it bears some responsibility for Miss Ds loss. As it has already accepted it didnt 
provide an effective warning, Ive not considered this point further.
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am persuaded the concerns Metro has raised 
about the legitimacy of the transaction Miss D was making are enough to support its position 
that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she 
made. It follows that I think Metro has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse Miss D in full under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Did Miss D have a reasonable basis for belief?
 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I dont consider Miss D had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments she was making was for a genuine investment 
and that the person she was transacting with was legitimate. I say this because: 
Miss D invested considerable sums of money based on advice from someone she 
met through an online dating site after just a few days. I appreciate Miss D thinks 
how long shes known someone is irrelevant, but I think the risk is clearly heightened 
and warranted further checking.
The investment returns the scammer mentioned were too good to be true. Miss D 
was told she could expect a rate of return of 15-25%. And the scammer told her he 
had made $700,000 in a day. This rate of return and timescale was in my view totally 
unrealistic. I consider that the promised returns were so unlikely that Miss D ought 
reasonably to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. 
That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on her part. 
There was no mention of the risks associated with trading or the potential to lose 
your initial investment as youd expect a legitimate broker to explain. On the contrary 
Miss D was told there was no risk. I think this should have raised concerns.
I accept that Miss D searched what she thought was the same investment online to 
find a legitimate trading platform and made a small error and I agree this was an 
easy mistake to make. But overall, I dont think she carried out sufficiently thorough 
checks to enable her to establish the legitimacy of the person or investment company 
she was dealing with before investing large sums. I think she ought reasonably to 
have done more.Miss D went ahead and made the payment despite all of these red flags. Under the CRM 
Code where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the customer hasnt 
met the requisite level of care, each party must accept equal responsibility. In these 
situations, the CRM Code requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the 
losses  which is what Metro has done. However, whilst Miss D accepts she should take 
some responsibility for the decisions she made, she doesnt think this should be 50%. She 
feels Metro should take 75% of the responsibility. So Ive gone on to consider whether I think 
Metro should pay Miss D anymore.
Vulnerability under the code
But Miss D says her emotional and mental condition at the time of the scam impacted her 
ability to think and act as usual. Its not clear if Miss D is referring to her situation as a 
vulnerability but the CRM Code talks about customers being reimbursed in full, despite 
exceptions (such that I have outlined above) applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the 
extent that they were unable to protect themselves from the scam. So, I have also 
considered what the CRM Code says about vulnerability and when it might lead to a full 
refund, even if Miss D hasnt met her requisite level of care.
In response to the investigators view Miss D provided details about her circumstances at the 
time, which she feels should be taken into account. She attached some generic articles 
about the pandemic and how it has led to increased levels of anxiety and fear, as well as 
making people vulnerable to prey on due to increased loneliness as well as many other 
factors. She also cited from an article issued by a financial service provider in June 2020 
about its insights into scams since the Covid-19 outbreak. Its not clear whether Miss D was 
aware of this article at the time she made the transactions  but I think fairly early on in the 
pandemic the issue of increase in fraud and scams was prevalent in the media. So arguably 
she ought to have been more wary in the circumstances.
From the information Miss D has provided to us, its clear that she was experiencing a 
particularly difficult time in her personal life when she fell victim to the scam. She says she a 
few months before the scam she lost one of her childhood friends and this increased the fear 
and depression in what was already a difficult time due to Covid.
Im sorry to hear of all Miss D has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
whats happened to her prior to the scam. Ive no doubt that Miss D has been through a lot 
and I dont doubt that her mental health has suffered as a result. And no doubt the scam 
has impacted her further. 
Turning to the relevant part of the Code, it says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
So Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Miss D 
was unable to take steps to identify the scam she fell victim to or to recognise steps she 
might take to test the legitimacy of what she was being told by the fraudster. To do so I 
must consider the details of the scam, Miss Ds actions throughout, and the wider 
circumstances of what was happening in Miss Ds life at the time. 
I dont doubt Miss D has suffered as a result of losing her friend and the psychological 
impact of Covid and social isolation. But there is also evidence within the circumstances 
that suggest Miss D was capable of taking steps to protect herself from fraud and financial harm. That is to say there was more she might reasonably have done that would have led 
to the scam being uncovered. 
Miss D wanted to make an investment  a decision she proactively made. There was no 
cold call and Miss D would have had time between messages to reflect on the potential 
investment. She wasnt, in my view, under immediate pressure to proceed with the 
investment. She did do some research and was therefore capable and able to do more.
Having thought very carefully about everything Miss D has told us, whilst Im not saying 
her circumstances had no impact on her at the time, Im not persuaded that it would be 
unreasonable to expect Miss D to have protected herself against the particular scam she 
fell victim to. And so I dont find that Metro need refund Miss Ds entire loss (or 75% of her 
losses) under the vulnerability clause of the code.
Other considerations
I have also gone on to consider Miss Ds points about the transactions being unusual and 
whether this ought to have triggered alarm bells with Metro. In particular Miss D feels that 
the third transaction was unusual. Having considered this (based on what Ive seen so far) I 
can see why this transaction might be considered unusual  at this point Miss D had made 
two transactions on the same day which combined, total £5,000 and arguably this was 
unusual activity for her account. So in these circumstances I would have expected Metro to 
consider that you may have been at risk of financial harm and intervened with the payments 
 asking you what they were for and why you were making them.
At this point, even if I concluded that its likely the scam would have been exposed  it would 
mean I would conclude it would be reasonable for Metro to refund Miss Ds payments from 
this third transaction onwards (and not for the earlier transactions). But as I have done under 
the CRM code, I would also be considering Miss Ds actions in light of the scam and whether 
its fair to hold Metro liable for 100% of those losses (from that third transaction onwards). As 
Ive set out already, I dont think Miss D had a reasonable basis for belief in terms of her 
actions. I would also be considering Miss Ds actions and how those contributed to her 
losses even if the transactions ought to have triggered Metro to have intervened. And in 
doing I would be reaching the conclusion that it would be fair and reasonable to deduct 50% 
of Miss Ds losses from any refund that Metro should pay.
So overall, outside of the code, Miss D would be receiving a refund of 50% of her losses 
from the third transaction onwards. Whereas under the CRM code requirements Miss D is 
receiving a higher refund amount than this as the business has refunded 50% of her total 
losses from the very first transaction she made.
So even if I considered that the transactions ought to have triggered and Metro ought to 
have taken action - given Miss D is already better off  in terms of the refund being offered 
by the bank  this doesnt have any bearing on the amount of refund/redress I am awarding. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Metro took reasonable steps to recover Miss Ds funds, 
and I think it did. The scam payments were made between 6 January 2021 and 16 
January 2021 and the scam was reported on 21 January 2021  five days after the last 
transaction. Its evidenced that Metro contacted the receiving banks on the same day that 
Miss D reported the fraud to it, and some funds have been returned. Any recovery action 
was most unlikely to be successful as scammers usually remove funds within hours. Im 
not persuaded that Metro couldve taken any further action that wouldve led to the 
recovery of Miss Ds remaining funds.Its clear Miss D feels very strongly about what happened and is bitterly disappointed to have 
lost money in the way that she did. But its important to emphasise that Im only considering 
whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible 
for what happened.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Miss D. I do accept she has 
fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. Im sorry she has 
lost money and I can understand why she would like to be compensated for more of her 
losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation she finds himself in 
ultimately, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for belief. It therefore follows that I dont 
think that Metros refusal to reimburse Miss D the other 50% of her losses was unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman