DRN-2972280
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to reject an escape of 
water claim he made under his home insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer in my decision includes its administrator.
What happened
Mr R bought a home insurance policy with Great Lakes SE online through his own Financial 
Advisors as the broker. In February 2020 Mr R made a claim to Great Lakes as there was 
water damage to his home from a leaking pipe in the loft. 
Mr R had been on a business trip and was away at the time of making the claim. Hed been 
away for over 30 days. Great Lakes told Mr R the policy excluded cover in these 
circumstances. It said it wouldnt meet Mr Rs claim because his home had been left 
unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said the question he was asked when he bought the policy was if he 
intended to leave the property unattended. Mr R said he made arrangements for somebody 
to attend the property every few days while he was away. So he believed Great Lakes 
should meet his claim. 
Mr R said his business trip was originally planned for less than 30 days. But it took longer 
due to travel permit issues. 
Our investigator explained that we would think it reasonable for customers to factor in 
potential delays to their plans, given the changing environment at the time due to the 
pandemic. She thought Great Lakes had acted reasonably. She found the policy wording 
was clear in that cover was excluded if the property was left unoccupied  and Great Lakes 
provided a definition under the policy of what it meant by that. So she didnt recommend Mr 
Rs complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes  like most insurers doesnt provide cover for every eventuality and has 
limitations and exclusions. Ive looked at whether the exclusion Great Lakes applied to Mr 
Rs claim was clear when he bought the policy, so that I can decide if it acted in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
Mr Rs schedule shows the key question Mr R answered no to. It reads:
Is the property ever left unattended for more than 30 consecutive days?
The words unattended and unoccupied can have similar meanings. So Ive looked at the 
full policy wording which forms the contract between Mr R and the insurer Great Lakes.
Under what is covered in the event of an escape of water claim, it says:
Escape of water from and frost damage to washing machines, dishwashers, fixed 
water tanks, apparatus and pipes.
Next to this, Great Lakes clearly says what is not covered. This reads:
Loss or damage occurring after your home has been left unoccupied for more than 
30 consecutive days.
Great Lakes provided a definition of what it meant by unoccupied within the policy wording 
and I think this is important here when deciding if it acted fairly. The definition says:
Unoccupied - Not lived in by you or anyone else with your permission.
I think Great Lakes provided a clear definition of the tern unoccupied.
I understand that Mr R made arrangements for somebody to look in on the property every 
few days and spend some time there. But the fact is that nobody was living at his property 
for over 30 consecutive days. And Great Lakes specifically excluded cover in these 
circumstances. So I dont think it acted unreasonably in declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman