DRN-3495380
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with a cheque she 
paid into her account.
What happened
Mrs M says she went to a Halifax branch to pay a cheque for £20,000 into her account. She 
says the cheque was from a building society I will call N and was correct as she checked it. 
Mrs M says she was told by Halifax staff to use a machine to pay the cheque into her 
account despite the branch being quiet and despite her wanting to use a cashier due to the 
size of the cheque. She says the cheque was credited to her account before being deducted 
and was told this was due to an issue with the cheque. Mrs M says she was unable to make 
her intended purchase the following day and would like compensation of 10% of the cheque 
value as well as Halifax staff disciplined for what took place.
Halifax says the date on the cheque was illegible and that was the reason it was rejected. It 
says that would have been the case regardless of how Mrs M paid the cheque in and it was 
rejected by its cheque clearing department. Halifax offered £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the cheque date unclear and 
so Halifax was entitled to reject it. The investigator didnt think it mattered how it was paid in 
and so didnt think any video footage of the branch was needed. The investigator explained it 
wasnt our role to direct a business on the use of a machine to pay cheques into an account.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and says she wasnt given an option to pay the cheque in via 
a cashier and says as a result of Halifaxs actions lost out on her intended purchase. She 
maintains the cheque was clear when paid in and Halifax has caused the problem when 
printing it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
I understand why Mrs M would have preferred to pay the cheque into her account via a 
cashier rather than a machine and accept the cheque was for a large amount of money. But 
I dont think the outcome would have been any different regardless of how the cheque was 
paid in. I say that as its clear the date on the cheque was unclear and it was Halifaxs 
cheque clearance department that rejected it. I can see that Mrs M now has a copy of the 
cheque.
I appreciate Mrs M says the cheque was clear when she paid it into her account. But its 
difficult to see how the date could have become so unclear and I think on balance that it was 
N that was responsible for the printing quality of that cheque and not Halifax. I also 
appreciate that Mrs M says that the problem would have occurred when Halifax copied the 
cheque, but I have not seen evidence of that or that Halifax would have needed to copy the 
cheque. Im satisfied on balance that it was the original cheque that contained an illegible 
date and that Halifax was reasonably entitled to reject it.
I also appreciate Mrs M would like us to watch footage of her attending the branch. I doubt 
any such footage exists now and do not see that it would be relevant. I say that as I do not 
doubt Mrs M was asked to use a machine to pay the cheque in and have no doubt, she 
would have preferred to use a cashier. But the crucial issue is that a separate department 
rejected the cheque as it was in part illegible. It follows that I cant fairly hold Halifax 
responsible for Mrs M being unable to make her intended purchase.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly explained why the cheque was rejected and that it 
was entitled to do so in these circumstances. In any event I make clear to Mrs M that its not 
our role to direct a business to discipline or train its staff and that we do not consider 
compensation on a percentage basis but by considering impact. It is of course a matter for 
Mrs M if she wishes to accept Halifaxs goodwill offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman