DRN-3031061
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mr G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr G paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Nationwide had to make it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI. Mr G has said 
that he took out the policy during a meeting with his solicitors and he was given no 
paperwork about the PPI. Nationwide has said that the policy was likely taken out during 
a meeting, but as it occurred around 21 years after Mr G originally took out his mortgage, 
there would have been no solicitors present. Unfortunately, theres no longer any 
documents from the sale itself, which I dont think is unreasonable considering the sale 
was 30 years ago now. As Mr G already had his mortgage since 1970, I think its more 
likely Mr G was aware the PPI was an optional, separate product to the mortgage. In 
order for me to agree that Mr G wasnt aware he took out the PPI, Id have to conclude it 
was more likely that Nationwide fraudulently took out the policy in Mr Gs name without 
his knowledge or consent. While this is possible, I dont think its the more likely scenario. 
Instead, and with nothing to suggest otherwise, I think its more likely Nationwide 
followed its normal process and set out that the policy was optional before gaining       
Mr Gs consent to set it up. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr G enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think its more likely he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr G. Mr G has 
mentioned an operation he had around 40 years before the policy was taken out. But I 
dont think better information about the existing medical exclusion wouldve caused him 
to change his mind about taking out the policy as the operation was such a long time 
before he took out the policy and seems to have been a stand-alone issue. There were 
also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
In addition, while Mr G did have some sick pay and savings available to him, the policy 
could have paid out for up to 24 months per claim if he was too sick to work or made 
redundant. And this would have been in addition to any other benefits he had with his 
employer. I note Mr G has said he is concerned his high-risk job would have made it 
more difficult for him to claim but having looked at the policy I can see no limitations in 
relation to this. I also note that Mr G did make a successful claim in 1999, so it seems he 
was aware of the process and it was a suitable product for him. Because of this I dont 
think  Mr G would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case. 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr G should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr G about the high commission and profit-share rates 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshippaid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr G wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for     
Mr G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr G paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr G 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Nationwide had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Nationwide has already paid Mr G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Gs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr G an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not consider that it should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman