DRN-3726967
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her for transactions she says she 
didnt make or agree to.
What happened
Mrs P held an account with HSBC. In late 2019 she left the country, taking her debit card 
(Card 1) with her. In September 2021 HSBC issued a new debit card for her account 
(Card 2), which was activated in October 2021.
In December 2021 Mrs P contacted HSBC to let them know fraud had occurred on her 
account. She said she hadnt made any transactions on her HSBC account since she left the 
country. She believed she had lost over £20,000 across both cards, and the account had 
been left overdrawn. She said she was stuck abroad with no funds available. She asked why 
Card 2 had been issued as she hadnt requested it.
HSBC declined to refund the amounts to Mrs P, as they felt Mrs Ps son had carried out the 
transactions. They told her they could not raise a fraud claim as it was a civil dispute.
Mrs P referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened  and felt it should succeed in part. They felt if Card 1 was in Mrs Ps possession 
they couldnt see how someone other than her, or someone with her permission, could have 
completed the transactions with that card. But they said that the transactions made with 
Card 2 were likely made by someone else without Mrs Ps authorisation, as she was outside 
the country so wouldnt have had access to this card. 
The investigators asked for the transactions on Card 2 to be refunded, along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of transaction to the date of settlement. They also suggested removing 
any interest and charges caused by the account being overdrawn, and for the removal of 
any negative information from Mrs Ps credit file. 
HSBC agreed to refund the transactions made on Card 2. But Mrs P disagreed, saying she 
didnt agree to the payments. She said she had been left stranded abroad and had to 
approach a loan shark to get funds to return home. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why in 
more details.
When the facts of a case are unclear, I have to base my decision on what I think it more 
likely than not to have happened. Im required to take in to account the relevant law, 
regulations, guidance and standards  as well as what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time. 
The most relevant regulations to Mrs Ps complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). In general, these regulations require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
agree to payments being made from their account.
But the PSRs can allow someone acting on behalf of Mrs P to authorise payments from her 
account. Where is appears to the bank that the payments are being made by someone with 
authority from Mrs P then they can treat these payments as authorised. This can be the case 
even if the third party has taken more than Mrs P expected, as by giving the third party 
access to the payment details is enough for them to act on her behalf.
Payments made using Card 1
In this case the disputed payments made using Card 1 went to the same online merchant. 
Whoever was using this card wouldnt have needed the physical card  which was with 
Mrs P  only the card details, such as the 16-digit number, the CVV and the registered 
address.
HSBC havent retained the information of what devices the payments were made from, or 
other details such as IP addresses. But looking back through Mrs Ps statements I can see 
there were payments made to this merchant previously. This suggests to me the card details 
were saved in some way  either on a device, or with the merchant. I can also see the 
merchant refunded several payments back to Mrs Ps account. Whoever was using the card 
was taking care to manage the account  they werent looking to spend as much as possible 
in a short space of time.
Mrs Ps accounts received income from SEISS grants during this period  which is 
something Mrs P would have needed to apply for each time. But as she was out of the 
country, she wouldnt have need to make use of these funds. I cant see a reason for her to 
do this, unless she was aware of someone else being able to make use of the funds. 
Likewise, there are regular payments out of the account to HMRC, that Mrs P has confirmed 
she did. Before making these payments, it seems she ought reasonably to have been aware 
of the balance on the account  and if it was less than she expected then she could have 
reported it to HSBC at the time.
This leads me to conclude that its more likely than not the card details were likely being 
carried out by someone Mrs P had given access to a system with the card details stored, or 
to the merchant account itself. There isnt a clear explanation of how this could have 
happened otherwise. In these circumstances its not unreasonable for the bank to treat them 
as authorised payments  and in line with the PSRs can decline to refund them.
Ive considered whether HSBC should have noticed the pattern of transactions and taken 
steps to questions Mrs P about these. But ultimately while there were a lot of transactions 
leaving the account, they were for relatively small value to a merchant Mrs P had used in the 
past. The account balance was kept quite healthy throughout the usage of Card 1. So, I 
dont see there were any obvious signs that Mrs P might be falling victim to financial crime 
that HSBC missed.
Payments made using Card 2 The payments made with Card 2 I see as different to those made with Card 1. Before the 
card could be used it needed to be activated. This was an automated process over the 
phone, so HSBC havent been able to provide records of what steps were needed to activate 
the card. But it seems accepted by both parties that Mrs P was genuinely unaware of this 
card being issued, and it was activated and used without her knowledge or consent. 
There was a suggestion from HSBC that some payments that Mrs P doesnt dispute in 
November and December 2021 were carried out using Card 2, but theyve now confirmed 
these were carried out using Card 1.
For these reasons I dont see that Card 2 was a valid payment instrument for Mrs Ps 
account, so any payments made with this card cant have been properly authorised as per 
the PSRs. As such they should be refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest.
Mrs P has asked why the card was issued as she hadnt requested one. HSBC have 
explained that they will often issue cards when the previous one is due to expire. Its not 
unusual for cards to be issued when the previous one is due to expire  and it is possible to 
use both cards for the one account. This is generally to ensure theres no interruption to 
people being able to use their debit cards. I dont consider this to be particularly unusual.  
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs P let HSBC know not to send a renewal card while she was 
away. It appears it was intercepted by someone who knew enough about Mrs P and the 
account to go through the verification process. I appreciate this will have caused Mrs P some 
distress to find out her account had been accessed in this way. But Im also mindful here that 
most of the distress is caused by actions of the person who intercepted the card, not HSBC. 
Im not minded to suggest compensation for this, or for any service she received.
Likewise, Mrs P has said that as she couldnt access her funds, she had to take an informal 
loan out from a loan shark. But she hasnt been able to provide any documentation to show 
what was agreed  or what any potential losses from this could be. Without supporting 
evidence, I cant fairly ask HSBC to pay for the costs of any loan taken. 
In any event, I can see that Mrs P was making use of her HSBC to support her while she 
was abroad  there had been no international transactions in the two years before the 
disputed transactions were reported. And I can see from the statements she made two 
transactions of £1,000 using a money transfer service using Card 1 in December 2021. But it 
doesnt appear that Mrs P returned to the UK until February 2022. 
But the unauthorised transactions using Card 2 left Mrs P overdrawn, and its not fair to hold 
her liable for any costs associated with this, or for any markers on her credit file. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Refund the disputed transactions made on Card 2
Add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount, from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement. If HSBC is required by HMRC to pay tax on this interest they 
should provide Mrs P with a certificate showing how much has been deducted, if she 
asks for one.
Refund any interest and charge accrued from the account going overdrawn.
Remove any negative information about the overdraft from Mrs Ps credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman