DRN-1778536
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of Mrs K that a designer bag that was supplied from Studio Retail 
Limited was not a genuine item.
What happened
Mrs K ordered a designer bag from Studio Retail on the 8 August 2019. After it was 
delivered on the 10 August 2019 Mrs K noticed that the item wasnt the same as that 
pictured on the website and had a part missing. She returned the bag to Studio Retail on 12 
August 2019 as she believed it was counterfeit. 
Studio Retail confirmed upon inspection that the bag was counterfeit. It stated that because 
this was not the item it had sent to Mrs K it would not refund Mrs K and it returned the 
counterfeit bag to her.
Mrs K was unhappy with this and raised a s75 claim as the bag was purchased with credit 
provided by Studio Retail. Studio Retail refused Mrs Ks claim as it stated that the bag that 
she returned was not one that it would have ever sent to her.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ks complaint and concluded that Studio Retail hadnt done 
anything wrong. She thought that after an investigation Studio Retail had been reasonable to 
conclude that there had not been a breach of contract or misrepresentation and there was 
not enough evidence to suggest the counterfeit bag had been sent by Studio Retail.
Mr K on behalf of Mrs K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, this service can only consider whether Studio Retail has 
properly handled Mrs Ks Section 75 complaint. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act sets 
out that the provider of credit is equally responsible for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the seller. In this case the seller and the provider of credit are the same 
company.
Studio Retail has said that the bag that was returned by Mrs K was counterfeit. It has said 
that it does not hold this item as a stock item, and it was not the bag that was sent to Mrs K. 
It has stated that it would have been illegal for this item to have been sent to Mrs K.
Mrs K is equally certain that the item she received from Studio Retail was counterfeit. She 
suggests that the item may have been tampered with in the warehouse.
As explained by the investigator I can only deal with whether Studio Retail has properly 
handled the Section 75 complaint. Where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here, I must 
base my decision on what is more likely to have happened and what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Studio Retail has carried out an investigation and has concluded that the bag returned by 
Mrs K doesnt match the weight and dimensions of any of the ones it has in stock. In these 
circumstances it is reasonable to conclude that this was not sent in error to Mrs K. On the 
evidence I have I cant conclude that it is likely that there has been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
I dont doubt Mrs K believes that there has been interference with the parcel before it 
reached her. But I cant be satisfied that it is likely that Studio Retail are responsible for that 
and so I cant say it was wrong for refusing the s75 claim.
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment to Mrs K, but I cant ask Studio Retail to 
refund Mrs K.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
7 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman