DRN-2749193
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, (PPI), 
policy. Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for 
the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr B took out the PPI at the same time as taking out a store card in 2000. The sale 
took place at the store.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr 
B disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr B says he was offered a discount on his store purchase if he took out the card. He says 
there was no discussion about PPI. And he just signed the form where the store assistant 
indicated. Although I dont doubt that this is what Mr B remembers about the sale, because 
of the time that has passed, I dont think that I can fairly rely just on what he recalls. Also, 
he has told us that, had he known he had the insurance, he would have made a claim 
when he was made redundant some months after taking it out..
I think that Mr B knew that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen the store card application form signed by Mr B. This has a box in it 
headed Protecting Your Account. Under that it says the applicant should only to sign the 
box if they want Account Cover. I can see that Mr B has signed the box. I agree with Mr 
B that there is a cross by the box, which I find its reasonable to assume was made by the 
store assistant to indicate that section to Mr B. However, there are other crosses by the 
two sections below that, respectively relating to card protection and additional cards. 
Neither of these other boxes has been completed in any way. So I dont conclude that the 
assistant suggested to Mr B that he had to complete all or any of the marked sections. So 
I find its reasonable to assume that Mr B chose to take out the PPI, while declining the 
options offered in the sections below.
Above the box, to which Ive referred above, the form says that the applicant should 
Remember to add Account Cover. to the application. And then it gives a brief description 
of what this includes. I find that this reinforces the fact that the PPI was optional and gives a 
sufficient explanation of what sort of product it was.
Mr B says that he didnt recall that he had the policy at the time that he was made 
redundant. But Im not satisfied that this shows that he wasnt aware at the time of the 
sale that he had taken it.
Because the sale was so long ago, we dont have a copy of the actual policy terms that 
applied to Mr Bs card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same insurers that 
were in use for other store cards, that we do have, from nearest the time of this sale. I 
think that it is reasonable to assume that similar terms would have been likely to have 
applied to
Mr Bs policy.
AXA didnt advise Mr B to take the policy, so it would have left it up to him to make the 
decision. But AXA still had to give Mr B clear, fair and not-misleading information about 
the PPI so he could make an informed decision as to whether it was suitable for his 
needs. As Ive said, the application form did give a brief description of the scope of the 
insurance cover being offered. It also said that the cost was 1p for every pound on the 
applicants monthly balance. It also explained where further details of the policy could 
be found. But I dont know what other information AXA gave to Mr B at the time he took 
it. But even if the information was not as clear as it ought to have been, I still think Mr B 
would have taken out the cover. I say this, because looking at what I know about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, and the policy terms Ive referred to above:
Mr B was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Mr B wasnt likely to have been affected by any of the policys main 
limitations and restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-
existing medical condition;
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to less than three months sick pay from his 
employer. And because of the length of time hed been with it, its likely that any 
redundancy package, if hed one, would have been very small. And Mr B didnt 
have any other insurance or savings that could have helped him make his 
monthly store card payments had he not been earning. Following a successful 
claim, however, the PPI would likely to have paid out 15% of Mr Bs store card 
balance a month had Mr B not been working because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. And the payments would likely to have been made 
until Mr B returned to work, or until his balance had been settled, whichever 
occurred first. They would also have been paid out in addition to any to any other 
monies Mr B had or was entitled to. So I think the PPI could have been of use to 
Mr B;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr B couldnt afford the premiums. In 
any event, had he later felt that he no longer wanted the PPI or that it was 
unaffordable for him, Mr B could have cancelled it at any time without further 
cost, as it was paid for monthly.
So I find that Mr B hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done 
wrong during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
Ros Barnett
 
Ombudsman