DRN-3036497
The complaint
Mr U complains about a Home Purchase Plan (HPP) he agreed with Al Rayan Bank PLC   
(Al Rayan) for the purchase of his flat. He says he was charged £2,600 more than had been 
agreed for Al Rayans legal costs. He also complains that he was required to provide           
Al Rayan with gift letters from his parents and that he had to purchase environmental 
indemnity insurance, which he says his own solicitor didnt think was necessary.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr U spoke to an adviser at Al Rayan about arranging a HPP agreement 
with it for the purchase of a new build flat, which Mr U had already reserved off-plan. I 
understand that Mr U was made aware that he would be responsible for paying Al Rayans 
legal costs, which Mr U says he was told would be a maximum of £1,000, including Value 
Added Tax (VAT).
In June 2019, Mr Us application was approved and he was sent an offer, which he 
accepted, and he proceeded with the purchase of the flat. However, just days before the 
purchase was due to complete, he was told that due to additional legal work required,         
Al Rayans legal costs would be £3,600 including VAT.
Mr U says he was shocked that Al Rayans legal costs would be more than £1000, and when 
he queried this with Al Rayan, he was told that would need to pay the increased amount, 
otherwise completion would be delayed. Mr U says the prospect of having to source an 
additional £2,600 at such short notice resulted in him experiencing significant stress and 
despair. He says he was forced to borrow money from friends and use a high interest rate 
credit card.
Mr U also says Al Rayan told him on the day of completion that it wouldnt release the funds 
agreed unless he purchased environmental indemnity insurance at the cost of £142. Further, 
he was told that Al Rayan required a gift letter from each of his parents, and he would have 
to cover the cost of obtaining these documents. He says he wasnt told about this until late 
into the process.
Mr U complained to Al Rayan. In its Final Response letter dated 21 August 2019, Al Rayan 
explained that its solicitors charged additional fees because they received a partial legal 
pack from Mr Us solicitors, with a deadline to complete within six days. It said their solicitors 
had to undertake additional due diligence, including consulting its planning team, which it 
wouldnt usually do.
Al Rayan also explained that it needed gift letters from Mr Us parents to show they were 
aware they have no legal rights to the property. It also explained that an indemnity was 
required because the environmental search had highlighted a contamination risk, which it felt 
should have been dealt with by Mr Us solicitors before exchanging contracts.
Unhappy with Al Rayans response, Mr U referred his complaint to our service. He told us 
that the matter had resulted in him becoming depressed and caused an existing medical 
condition to flare up. Further, hed been struggling to repay his friends and credit card debt.
Following our most recent review, the investigator upheld Mr Us complaint. In summary, he 
didnt feel Al Rayan had provided sufficient information to justify the increase in its legal 
costs and he felt the additional costs Mr U was charged should be refunded to him. He also 
felt Al Rayan should pay Mr U £200 for failing to inform Mr U that its legal costs could 
change.
Al Rayan didnt agree with the investigator. It said felt it was the role of Mr Us solicitors to 
complete the due diligence in full. However, it felt much of the work hadnt been completed 
and its own solicitors had to do this work, which resulted in additional fees being charged.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
More recently, Al Rayan has offered to pay Mr U £1,000 to reflect his strength of feeling. 
However, Mr U didnt accept this.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Al Rayan make it clear that its legal costs could be more than £1,000 inclusive of VAT? 
Mr U says he was told by an adviser at Al Rayan that its legal costs would be a maximum of 
£1,000, inclusive of VAT. And he referred to an email exchange that had taken place 
between him and an adviser at Al Rayan on 26 February 2019.
Ive carefully reviewed the email exchange and I can see that in response to Mr Us query 
about Al Rayans legal costs, he was told:
The banks solicitors fees are between £500-£1,000 inc VAT. 
There was no reference to this being a maximum amount. But I also couldnt see any 
mention of any possibility that the costs could be higher than this. So, based on this 
communication alone, I can appreciate that Mr U may not have realised that Al Rayans 
costs could be higher.  
However, Ive also taken into consideration other communication that took place between  
Mr U and Al Rayan, before Mr U agreed to the HPP agreement.
On 9 January 2019, a telephone conversation took place between Mr U and an adviser from 
Al Rayan. Ive listened to a recording of this conversation, and Ive noted that when Mr U 
asked the adviser what Al Rayans legal costs would be he was told:
typically around £1,000, but if substantially more, well obviously advise you as early as 
possible.Further, Mr U was sent a tariff list document with the offer letter dated 4 June 2019. Ive 
carefully reviewed this document, and under the heading solicitor fees and expenses it 
refers to Al Rayans legal costs usually being around £500 excluding VAT. However, it goes 
on to say:
Due to the level of administrative work required, the legal costs incurred for newbuild 
properties could be substantially more.
Having considered all of the information that Mr U received before agreeing to the HPP 
agreement, I think Al Rayan did enough to make it clear, that whilst its costs are typically 
between £500 to £1,000 including VAT- they could be substantially more. And specifically, 
where the property concerned was a newbuild property - which was the position here for    
Mr U.
Has Al Rayan acted reasonably by charging Mr U £3,600?
Ive thought carefully about whether Al Rayan has acted reasonably by charging Mr U 
£3,600 for its legal costs.
Ive noted that point 1.5 in the Offer Letter dated 4 June 2019 states:
You will be responsible for paying  any costs payable to us as detailed on the tariff list 
enclosed.
In the tariff list document, under the heading Solicitors fees and expenses, it states:
The cost of both sets of solicitors is covered by you. 
Further, point 1.6 in the Offer Letter also states:
You will needto pay our solicitors prior to completion of the purchase of the Propertyall 
our fees and expenses plus Value Added Tax (if applicable).
In addition to this, the Key Facts document enclosed with the Offer Letter states: 
You will be responsible for the full cost of our solicitor, unless it is otherwise indicated in 
your offer letter.
So, as a starting point, by agreeing to the terms of the HPP agreement, Im satisfied Mr U 
had agreed to cover the cost of Al Rayans legal costs and to pay these before the 
completion of the purchase of the property.
I understand that due to the nature of HPP agreements, The Law Society recommends that 
two sets of Solicitors are involved  one to act on behalf of the customer, and one to act on 
behalf of the bank. This is different to the standard conveyancing process where often only 
one firm is needed to represent both the customer and the lender. 
I also understand that Al Rayan has its own panel of solicitors, who it says are experienced 
in the conveyancing process for Islamic finance transactions. And it recommends that its 
customers select a firm from its panel because it believes the conveyancing process will 
proceed more smoothly than if they choose their own solicitors. And if a customer does 
select a firm from its panel, it contributes £400 towards the cost of its own legal fees.
However, Mr U decided to instruct his own solicitors, who werent on Al Rayans panel, 
which he was entitled to do.Its clear from the information provided that Mr Us solicitors and Al Rayans solicitors dont 
agree on who was expected or was responsible for completing certain parts of the 
conveyancing process.
Al Rayan says that with a HPP agreement, the solicitors acting on behalf of the customer 
have two roles. The first is the usual conveyancing which will allow them to report to their 
client and the second is to report to the solicitors acting for the home purchase firm. It 
believes to report to the home purchase firm, matters need to have been fully reviewed by 
the solicitors acting for the customer. It says its current process requires a report on title, 
which requires an in-depth review of everything. And its solicitors role is to ensure its 
security is protected, rather than instigating and completing the usual conveyancing.
Al Rayan has explained that Mr Us solicitors provided its solicitors with a partial legal pack, 
which meant its solicitors had to raise 80 initial queries, and this very quickly increased as 
and when it received the remainder of the legal pack.
In addition to providing a list of the matters it says its solicitors completed to ensure 
completion could take place on time, it has highlighted a number of examples of when it felt 
its solicitors had to complete work that Mr Us solicitors should have completed. This 
includes Mr Us solicitors forwarding documents it had received from the developers to Al 
Rayans solicitors to review, without reviewing these first.
It has also explained that Mr Us solicitors didnt provide full information regarding the 
discharge of planning conditions, including pre-commencement planning condition (which it 
says should be discharged by developer prior to commencing works on the development 
site). It said its solicitors had to refer this to its planning department as a specialist matter, 
which resulted in additional fees being charged.
Mr Us solicitors reviewed the list of matters that Al Rayans solicitors say they completed, 
and Mr Us solicitors felt the majority of the work listed shouldnt be considered to be 
additional work.
Having reviewed the all of the information available to me, whilst Im not in a position to 
determine who was responsible for completing certain matters involved in the conveyancing 
process here, Im satisfied that Al Rayans solicitors completed more work than they 
expected and had anticipated when considering their standard legal fees.
Im also not in a position to determine an amount that Al Rayans solicitors should have 
charged for the additional work completed. But Im satisfied that Al Rayans legal costs were 
what it says they were, and it was entitled to charge Mr U for its legal costs in line with the 
terms of the HPP agreement, which Mr U had agreed to.
Al Rayan has also confirmed that the amount of work required only became apparent once 
its solicitors reviewed the uncompleted pack it received from Mr Us solicitors on 19 June 
2019, six days before the expected completion date. It says it notified Mr Us solicitors the 
same day that its fees would be higher and would be £2,500 plus VAT. It then sent an email 
the next day (20 June 2019) to say this had increased to £3,000 plus VAT.
Whilst I acknowledge this was a very tight timeframe for Mr U to source the additional funds, 
it seems to me that Mr Us solicitors were informed very soon after Al Rayans solicitors say 
they became aware of the amount of work that would be required and I cant see that they 
were in a position to provide this information earlier than this.In summary, considering everything, I dont think Al Rayan has acted unreasonably by 
requiring Mr U to pay for its legal costs, and before completion, in line with the terms of the 
HPP agreement that Mr U had agreed to.
Gift letters
Mr U says he wasnt informed that hed need to provide gift letters in relation to money gifted 
to him by his parents to use towards the deposit.
It is usual for a bank to require evidence to confirm money obtained from a third party is a 
gift and not a loan and that the person gifting the money accepts that they have no interest in 
the property. I understand that a gift letter is also known as a deed of gift.
Al Rayan has explained that Mr U had initially said only £15,000 would be gifted to him, but 
later informed the underwriter that his circumstances had changed and much more was 
being gifted, which resulted in Al Rayan requiring gift letters from Mr Us parents.
Ive also noted that in the offer letter dated 4 June 2019, under point 6 entitled Special 
Conditions it states that:
Your solicitor is to put in place a Deed of Gift ... You will be responsible for any costs 
incurred.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Al Rayan has acted unreasonably by requiring 
Mr U to provide it with gift letters from each of his parents and for Mr U to pay the cost of 
this. 
Environmental indemnity
Mr U is unhappy that Al Rayan told him that hed need to take out environmental indemnity 
insurance and cover the cost of this before it would agree to release the funds. He says his 
own solicitor didnt think this was necessary.
Al Rayan has explained this was required because an environmental search highlighted a 
contamination risk. In the circumstances, I dont consider Al Rayans actions to be 
unreasonable.
Summary
Whilst I appreciate this has been a very difficult and stressful time for Mr U, having reviewed 
everything, Im not satisfied that Al Rayan has acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
Al Rayan has offered to pay Mr U £1,000 to reflect his strength of feeling and I dont intend 
to ask it to do anything further. If Mr U decides to accept this offer, he should contact           
Al Rayan directly.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons I explained, my provisional decision was that Al Rayan had made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. Beyond that offer, I didnt intend to require it to take 
any further action.Responses to my provisional decision
Al Rayan confirmed its acceptance of my provisional decision. 
Mr U responded. He felt Id only relied on Al Rayans terms and conditions when reaching 
my provisional decision. He also asked whether Al Rayans offer was still available to accept.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional 
decision, which is that Al Rayans offer to pay Mr U £1,000 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Should Mr U now wish to accept Al Rayans offer, he should contact Al Rayan directly to 
arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Al Rayan Bank PLC has made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. Beyond arranging the payment of this offer 
should Mr U wish to accept it, I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman