DRN-4406156
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy their home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) was cancelled when they were having building works carried out.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D notified RSA they were intending to carry out significant building works to their 
house. They provided RSA with supporting documentation to allow it to consider the change 
in risk for insuring the property.  
RSA took around seven weeks to review the additional information provided before it 
informed Mr and Mrs D. Having explored multiple options to continue providing cover during 
the building works, it was no longer able to insure their property as the risk fell outside of its 
underwriting criteria.
After 14-days of providing notice, RSA cancelled the policy. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy as 
some of the communications happened whilst they were on holiday. They felt it had on 
adverse impact on the enjoyment of their holiday. When they returned from holiday they 
didnt have enough time to arrange new cover with a different insurer which led to their home 
been uninsured for over a month. This caused them some worry.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Whilst he recognised the timing of the 
cancellation was unfortunate, he didnt think RSA had acted unreasonably. It made its 
decision not to insure Mr and Mrs D based on its underwriting criteria, and it cancelled the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions. He thought RSAs payment of £100 
compensation for service deficiencies was fair in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I think the timing of the policy being cancelled was unfortunate, I cant say RSA has 
acted unfairly so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D had a period of stress when the building works had commenced, and RSA 
had cancelled their policy. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs D may not have wanted to delay 
the works on their property, I think this was their choice. I have no reason to doubt that if Mr 
and Mrs D had delayed the works on the property then RSA wouldve had no problem in 
continuing to provide cover under the original terms and conditions.
However, the policy was cancelled as the works were due to commence. I think RSA was 
fair in cancelling the policy. Mr and Mrs D notified RSA about a change in their 
circumstances. RSA followed its standard procedures in assessing the change of risk and it 
deemed the risk fell outside of its standard underwriting criteria. It would have made the 
same decision for any other customer in the same position. RSA has the right to set its own 
commercial policy and decide what insurance risk it wants to take on. Unfortunately, in Mr 
and Mrs Ds case the risk was too high for RSA.
Mr and Mrs D asked if the cancellation of the policy could be extended beyond 14-days due 
to the holiday they were on. RSA did review this, but a management decision was made that 
it didnt want to be exposed to the additional risk whilst the building works were being carried 
out. So, it informed Mr and Mrs D of this outcome, and the policy was cancelled 14-days 
later. I think this is reasonable as its consistent with what the terms and conditions of the 
policy sets out. I can understand why RSA wouldnt want to take on this extra risk.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the delays in RSA assessing the increased 
risk in the first place. RSA has apologised for this and paid £100 compensation. However, it 
has explained it was looking at alternative solutions to provide cover. I think it couldve 
communicated better with Mr and Mrs D during this period. However, the fact it took over a 
month for Mr and Mrs D to source alternative cover I think is an indicator it wasnt a straight-
forward assessment.
Whilst I do think this has impacted Mr and Mrs D, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably. 
I think it reinforces the importance of planning all aspects of a building project in advance of 
work commencing. I dont think its RSA responsibility to support Mr and Mrs D in finding 
alternative cover and I think it only withdrew its cover once it knew Mr and Mrs D had 
authorised the work to commence. For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think £100 compensation is reasonable for the distress RSA has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman