DRN-3506928
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr G was an existing personal customer of HSBC and wanted to apply to the bank for a loan 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. He submitted an application, but HSBC declined it 
and said he would need to enter into a business relationship with the bank before he could 
apply for a Bounce Back Loan. So Mr G applied for a business current account, but HSBC 
declined this application on the basis that it didnt meet its credit score requirements.
Mr G complained to HSBC about how it had handled his attempts to access the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme, but the bank maintained its position. It explained that Mr G was unable 
to apply through his personal account as his business was established after 5 April 2019. So 
hed needed to open either a business current account or a feeder account. The bank said 
his applications for the former had been processed in line with its criteria and declined in line 
with its policy.
Mr G says he was eligible for a Bounce Back Loan and believes that the requirements HSBC 
implemented, on the basis of which his attempts to obtain a loan were declined, were unfair. 
In summary, he says:
He should have been allowed to apply through his personal account as initially 
attempted, as this was permitted under the Loan Scheme rules. There was no 
requirement to hold a business relationship. And he ought only to have been subject 
to anti-money laundering (AML), fraud and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks when 
applying for a loan  all of which he had satisfied by being an existing customer of 
HSBC.
HSBC unfairly restricted applications from existing personal customers to those with 
businesses set up on or before 5 April 2019.
His attempts to access the Loan Scheme had failed entirely because of HSBCs own 
commercial reasons and credit scoring. This wasnt in line with the rules or spirit of 
the Loan Scheme. 
HSBC was slow to deal with his applications and related queries, and erroneously 
referred to him as a new customer.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans, which 
included the freedom to require applicants to enter into a business relationship with 
the bank. The bank required this for customers who werent running their business 
through an existing account on or before 5 April 2019. HSBC said this was so it could 
complete the requisite AML, fraud and KYC checks, which she thought was 
reasonable. So HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in requiring Mr G to open a 
business account (or feeder account).
HSBC declined Mr Gs business account application as it hadnt met the banks 
standard criteria. The application had been legitimately subject to credit scoring as it 
was a separate product to the Bounce Back Loan, and to which the bank was 
therefore entitled to apply its own criteria. The bank confirmed that these criteria 
hadnt been adjusted due to the pandemic. So she thought HSBC had fairly 
assessed Mr Gs application, in line with how it treated any new customer.
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G held a personal account with HSBC and believes that he should have been able to 
submit a Bounce Back Loan application through this account, without having to enter into a 
business relationship with the bank. But I dont think the bank did anything wrong in this 
respect, because:
HSBC had discretion, under the rules of the Loan Scheme, to decide how it accepted 
applications  including from its existing customers. While the Scheme rules didnt 
require applicants to have a business relationship with a lender, it was up to each 
lender to decide whether or not they were willing to lend to those without one. So 
HSBC wasnt obliged to accept an application from Mr G on the basis that he already 
held a personal account with the bank.
HSBC did accept some loan applications from personal customers without requiring 
them to enter into a business relationship, but only where their business had been 
established on or before 5 April 2019. The significance of this date is that a 2018/19 
tax return could then be obtained, which could evidence the Loan Scheme eligibility 
requirement to have been trading prior to 1 March 2020. Under the rules of the Loan 
Scheme, applicants who couldnt supply a tax return were to be treated as a 
customer new to the lender. HSBCs policy was in line with these expectations.
I understand from what Mr G has said and provided to us that his understanding of the rules 
of the Loan Scheme is based primarily on the information that is publicly available on the 
website of the British Business Bank, the government-owned bank responsible for 
administering the Scheme. But this information isnt exhaustive and doesnt include all the 
rules and requirements that applied to lenders. 
The Bounce Back Loan application form was standardised across all lenders in a format 
prescribed by the British Business Bank. Applicants had to choose from one of four options, 
two of which were available for personal current account customers. Of these, there was an 
option for those with a business established on or before 5 April 2019 to apply by supplying 
their account number and sort code, with a note to say that the lender would require a copy 
of their 2018/19 tax return. The other was for those with a business established between 6 
April 2019 and 1 March 2020, which said they would need to discuss becoming verified as a 
business customer with the lender to qualify for a Bounce Back Loan. These were the only 
two options available to Mr G when applying to HSBC, in line with the process laid down by 
the Loan Scheme rules. For these reasons, Im satisfied that HSBCs processes to require Mr G to enter into a 
business relationship with the bank were in line with the rules and expectations of the 
Scheme. As Mr Gs business was established after 5 April 2019, HSBC did nothing wrong in 
requiring him to enter into a business relationship with the bank before it would accept a 
Bounce Back Loan application from him. 
There is then the question of whether HSBC dealt fairly with Mr Gs application for a 
business account. I think it did, because:
The bank assessed Mr Gs application against its standard criteria. Ive checked that 
HSBC didnt enhance the criteria it used when considering applications for an 
account from customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan compared with its practice 
previously, and I can confirm that it didnt.
HSBC has evidenced that Mr Gs application didnt meet its credit-scoring 
requirements, and was therefore declined in line with its standard procedure. 
While applications for a Bounce Back Loan werent subject to credit-scoring 
requirements, the business account was a separate product. So the rules and 
requirements that were specific to the Loan Scheme didnt apply to the account 
application, which was legitimately subject to different criteria. HSBC remained free 
to credit score applications for new business accounts. 
Ive also noted Mr Gs concern with the time it took HSBC to deal with the applications and 
some related queries. While there were no set timeframes, Bounce Back Loan applications 
were expected to be assessed within a matter of days. It took HSBC around three weeks to 
respond to Mr Gs application. Although this was longer than Mr G would reasonably have 
expected, I think its fair to bear in mind the unprecedented circumstances of the time  
particularly the exceptional demand for borrowing under the Scheme that HSBC was dealing 
with. In this context, a three-week period does not seem unreasonably long. Mr Gs account 
application was also reviewed swiftly and Ive not seen any other unreasonable delays in 
how HSBC dealt with things given the circumstances. There were some administrative errors 
in the banks explanation of things to Mr G  most notably that it referred to him as a new 
customer  but none impacted the assessment or outcome of the applications.
I appreciate that HSBCs decision would have left Mr G in a difficult and frustrating position, 
and I understand his strength of feeling over the issue. But taking all of the above into 
account, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it handled his requests for a Bounce 
Back Loan or business account  so Im not intending to require the bank to take any action 
in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman