DRN-3484053
The complaint
Miss T complains about MBNA Limited and their failure to return her birth and marriage 
certificates.
What happened
On 22 March 2021, Miss T contacted MBNA to discuss the process she needed to follow to 
change the name on her account to her maiden name following her divorce.
On this call, MBNA confirmed they would need Miss Ts birth and marriage certificates. And 
they confirmed this could be either the original documents or certified copies, with originals 
being returned to her. Miss T sent her original birth and marriage certificates to MBNA soon 
after, alongside her divorce documentation. MBNA received these on 24 March, and they 
posted them back to Miss T the same day. But Miss T didnt receive these documents back. 
So, she raised a complaint.
Miss T was unhappy that MBNA had failed to return her documents back to her securely. 
She was unhappy that they had been sent to her by standard post, rather than special 
delivery. And Miss T explained because of this, she would need to travel to Nigeria to 
replace her marriage certificate as replacements are unable to be applied for abroad. So, 
she wanted MBNA to cover the cost of this travel, for both her and her 12-year old daughter, 
which she estimated to be around £2,600.
MBNA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was Miss Ts own 
decision to send them original documents, rather than certified copies. And they were 
satisfied theyd posted them back to Miss T in line with their business process. They didnt 
think any failures in the postal service were their responsibility. But they did recognise the 
significant inconvenience this would have caused Miss T, so they paid £538 into Miss Ts 
account as a gesture of good will, to help with any costs she incurred replacing the 
documents. Miss T remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They listened to the call 
recording of the conversation between Miss T and MBNA on 22 March. And they thought 
MBNA made it reasonably clear originals or certified copies could be sent. So, she thought it 
was Miss Ts own decision to send the originals. And our investigator didnt think Miss T had 
made any particular request on how the documents should be posted back to her. So, they 
thought MBNA had acted fairly when sending them back in line with their business process. 
Because of this, they thought MBNA had acted fairly and reasonably when paying Miss T a 
total of £538 as a gesture of good will and so, they didnt think MBNA needed to do anything 
more.
Miss T didnt agree. Our investigator provided Miss T a copy of the call recording and after 
listening to this, Miss T explained she didnt have the money to obtain certified copies. So, 
she didnt think it was fair to expect her to arrange this. And she maintained her view that it 
wasnt her fault the documents had been lost and so, she didnt think it was fair for her to be 
expected to cover the costs of arranging replacements, including the travel it would require. 
As Miss T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss T. I dont doubt Miss T 
sent her original documents to MBNA assuming they would be sent back to her securely. So, 
when she didnt receive them, I can understand why shed be upset about this. And I can 
appreciate how this would be made worse by the fact a new copy of her marriage certificate 
is only able to be obtained by travelling to Nigeria as this will no doubt incur significant travel 
costs for her and her daughter, who she would need to take with her. 
But for me to say MBNA should be responsible for these costs, Id need to be satisfied that it 
was MBNAs error that led Miss T to need to travel to Nigeria for a new marriage certificate. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first considered the information MBNA provided Miss T before she sent her 
documentation to them. Ive listened to the call recording and I think MBNA made it 
reasonably clear that Miss T could provide either the original documentation, or certified 
copies instead. And Miss T herself acknowledged this, saying she had a certified copy of her 
marriage certificate although I appreciate this was certified in Nigeria, not the UK.
So, I think Miss T was made reasonably aware of the options available to her. And it was 
Miss Ts decision to send the original documentation to MBNA. While I recognise Miss T has 
since said she didnt have the money available to pay for certified copies, Ive seen no 
evidence to show Miss T made MBNA aware of this, or that is was discussed further. So, I 
dont think this has any material impact on the decision Ive reached.
On the call, MBNA confirm that any original documentation they receive will be posted back 
to Miss T. So, Ive thought about whether MBNA did this and if they did, whether they did this 
reasonably. I can see MBNA received the documentation on 24 March. And Ive seen 
MBNAs system note which confirms the documentation was posted back to Miss T on the 
same day. So, Im satisfied MBNA did what they said they would.
But I recognise Miss T doesnt think MBNA did this reasonably, as the documentation was 
sent by standard post, rather than special delivery or something similar. MBNA have 
confirmed it is their business process to send any documentation, other than passports and 
driving licenses, back to customers by standard post. So, Im satisfied they acted in line with 
their process, and this is all Id expect them to do. Because of this, I cant say theyve acted 
unreasonably here.
I appreciate Miss T doesnt agree with this, or the process MBNA follow. But our service is 
unable to comment upon, or direct businesses such as MBNA to change, their business 
processes. This would be the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
So, while I recognise Miss Ts unhappiness, this hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
So, I think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in the way they returned Miss Ts 
documentation. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold them responsible for any errors caused by the postal service. I appreciate Miss T didnt receive 
the documents MBNA sent. But from the evidence available to me, I think its reasonable for 
me to assume the documents were lost while they were with the postal service. So, this is 
something Miss T should look to query with the postal service directly.
I understand MBNA have paid Miss T £538 as a gesture of good will, to recognise the 
financial impact of needing to replace the documentation. This is pleasing to see, and I can 
confirm this offer is more than I wouldve directed as for me to say MBNA should 
compensate Miss T, Id have to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And I dont think 
they have on this occasion. Because of this, I dont think MBNA need to do anything more. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss T was hoping for. And I recognise it wont alleviate 
Miss Ts financial concerns around the need to replace her marriage certificate. But as Ive 
explained, for me to say MBNA should cover the cost of this replacement and its linked 
costs, Id need to be satisfied it was MBNAs error that led to the situation Miss Ts finds 
herself in. And I dont think it was on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman