DRN-1600358
 
The complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
AXA didn't sell either policy to Mrs B, it provided the insurance policy but it has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. I'll refer to AXA throughout this decision.
background
Mrs B bought an MPPI policy in February 1994 and again in December 2001 on two store 
cards (numbers ending 6295 and 7977). These sales took place on the phone. The cards 
and policies have ended.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think AXA gave her clear enough 
information about the policies sold in 1994 and 2001. I say this because the policies wouldnt 
pay disability benefit in connection with a medical condition that the customer knew about 
when they bought them. I think its unlikely that AXA pointed this out to Mrs B when she 
bought the policies.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs B because she had the same medical condition for 
both sales which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on either policy 
for everything she expected. I dont think Mrs B would have bought the policies if shed had 
enough information. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Ive noted what AXA has recently said about Mrs Bs condition, the way in which it can be 
managed and how it could affect her day to day life.
Mrs B has articulated clearly the extent of her long term medical condition that she has had 
for many years now. Mrs B says she takes medication but this has increased over the years. 
She also adds that it is possible that she would have had to take unplanned time off work. 
This shows me that Mrs B's medical condition was significant enough that she would have 
had it on her mind when she applied for the card and PPI policy in 1994 and 2001. And it 
follows that I dont think she wouldve taken the policies out if she had been given clearer 
information about the significant terms given within them. Mrs Bs recollection has been 
consistent throughout her complaint, and I dont think its unreasonable for me to accept 
what she says.Ive considered the nature of Mrs Bs conditions and the fact that they are ongoing. With this 
and what I have already concluded in mind, I dont think Mrs B would have bought the PPI if 
shed had enough information about the policies. So I think I should uphold the complaint.
fair compensation
AXA France IARD should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A.  AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed 
her store card account if the policies hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs B made a 
successful claim under the PPI policies, AXA France IARD can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B 
would have owed when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.  If  when AXA France IARD works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA France IARD something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.  AXA France IARD should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France IARD must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs B in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman