DRN-3054104
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to her. To resolve 
her complaint, shed like ELL to refund interest and charges on her loan and remove adverse 
information from her credit file.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 September 2021 as I was inclined to 
reach different conclusions to the adjudicator. In my provisional decision, I set out a detailed 
background to the complaint and explained that I was included to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
I gave both parties time to provide any responses or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before issuing a final decision. The time for any responses has now passed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out the important aspects of my provisional decision below:
What happened
ELL lent Miss M three loans, the first loan was approved in 2017 and the final loan was
approved in 2018. From the information available on this case, the loans were as follows:
Loan number Start date Loan amount 
(£)Term Repayment 
(£)End date
1 02/03/2017 2,000 24 months 188.32 21/11/2017
2 21/11/2017 3,000 24 months 249.92 14/09/2018
3 14/09/2018 4,500 36 months 368.14 outstanding
When Miss M complained to ELL it didnt uphold her complaint. Unhappy with the response,
she referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that ELL did enough before agreeing to lend and its checks show
that Miss M could afford the loan.
Miss M disagreed, she said it should have been obvious to ELL that she was borrowing to
make ends meet.
As the case hasnt been resolved, it was passed to me  an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loans were offered.
ELL is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Briefly, it was
required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that a consumer would be able to repay
the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means
that the consumer could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks,
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what
was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Did ELL carry out sufficient/proportionate checks?
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending any of the loans, it searched Miss
Ms credit file, it asked her about her income and living costs including her regular credit
commitments. It also verified some of the information Miss M provided, I can see that before
lending, it requested Miss Ms bank statements and copies of her payslips. I think the checks
ELL did went far enough as the checks would have given it a thorough understanding of
Miss Ms financial circumstances.
I now need to think about whether ELL reacted sufficiently to the results of its checks.
Having thought carefully about this, I dont think ELL reacted to the information it saw from
its checks. Ill explain why.
The checks show that Miss Ms income at the time the loans were approved was around
£2,100. Miss Ms normal living costs throughout the time was an average of around £1,300
which included things like rent, utilities, food and transport. Most concerning though is that
the checks show that Miss M was borrowing from multiple sources. I can see that Miss M
was borrowing from at least five short term lenders at the time and I accept that at the time
of loan 1 she told ELL that she was borrowing to consolidate her payday loans. But ELLs
final response letter suggests that not all those payday loans would be repaid with this loan
and so, Miss M would have still had to continue to repay some of the borrowing alongside the
£188.32 required for this loan.
Also, Miss M was in at least two debt management plans and so while it may have looked as
though on a pounds and pence calculation, Miss M could afford this loan, I think ELL should
have known that she was struggling financially and unlikely to be in a position to sustain the
payment throughout the term.
Eight months later, Miss M came back to borrow loan 2, this time the loan amount was
higher and she gave the same reason of loan consolidation for this loan. The checks at the
time of this loan show that Miss Ms circumstances hadnt changed, her income was similar
to loan 1 and so were her living expenses. However, its clear from the bank statements and
credit checks that Miss M had continued to borrow from other short-term lenders. Infact
some of the lenders ELL said Miss M would be repaying with loan 1 were still being repaid at
the time of loan 2. This was a pattern that continued into loan 3.
Given what ELL saw from its check, it was aware that;
Miss Ms income remained largely the same.
Her regular living costs largely remained the same.
Her borrowing was increasing as she was borrowing higher amounts from ELL and
there were several other borrowings from other lenders.
Miss M was in debt management at the time of all three loans.
Miss M was making regular payments to family and friends some of which were debt
repayments.Taking all these factors into account, the lending here wasnt sustainable as Miss M had to
borrow to repay previous loans and was obviously stuck in a debt cycle. ELL shouldnt have
lent her any of the loans in those circumstances.
As neither party has provided any further information or responses to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
ELL shouldnt have lent to Miss M and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right ELL should;
refund all interest and charges payments Miss M made towards loans 1 and 2, and
add 8% interest per year on the payments from above from the date they were paid, 
if they were, to the date of settlement;
for loan 3, ELL should remove all interest and charges applied to the loan and treat 
all payments Miss M made towards loan 3 as payments towards the capital amount. 
If theres still a balance outstanding about reworking loan 3, then ELL may use the 
refund from the other loans to offset the balance. If a balance still remains than ELL 
should agree a suitable repayment plan with Miss M. But if after doing the above, 
theres surplus, then ELL should add 8% interest per year to the surplus from the 
date they were paid, if they were to the date of settlement and refund those to Miss 
M.
ELL should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file as result
of the interest and charges on the loans. ELL may remove adverse information from
Miss Ms credit file about loan 3 once the loan has been repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Miss
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and 
require Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman