DRN-3766562
The complaint
The complaint is about a claim Mr N made on Mr Ts DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) policy.
Mr N and Mr T have brought the complaint jointly. They say that DAS unreasonably declined 
Mr Ns claim. 
What happened
Mr T has the benefit of a DAS legal expenses insurance policy. Mr N made a claim on that 
policy for cover to bring a claim against his employer for failing to make reasonable 
adjustments, which he says resulted in an injury at work.
DAS declined to cover the claim. They said Mr N wasnt eligible to claim under the policy 
because he wasnt living with the policyholder, Mr T, and this is a requirement of the policy.
Our investigator considered Mr N and Mr Ts complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. He said that Mr Ts policy did cover Mr N because it extended to his family members 
who always live with him and the evidence hed seen convinced him that Mr N and Mr T did 
always live together, albeit not necessarily in the UK. He also concluded that Mr N is Mr Ts 
carer as well as his son and there was nothing in the policy terms that suggested they 
needed to be living in Mr Ts UK property, as long as that property continued to be occupied 
by another family member.  
DAS dont agree. They say that theyve been given conflicting accounts by Mr N on where 
each party was residing throughout the claims process and on other claims that Mr N has 
made. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr N and Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover:
The person who has taken out this policy (the policyholder) and any member of their family 
who always lives with them. This includes students temporarily living away from the home 
and unmarried partners. 
Anyone claiming under this section of cover must have the policyholder's agreement to 
claim.
Theres no dispute here that Mr N has Mr Ts permission to make a claim on the policy. 
Indeed, Ive seen confirmation from Mr T that he agrees to Mr N making the claim that is the 
subject of this particular complaint. The issue in dispute is whether Mr N always lives with Mr 
T. For the sake of completeness, Im satisfied that theres nothing in the policy that means 
Mr N and Mr T had to be resident in the UK together- but rather that they were always living 
together, wherever that may be.
DAS have relied on several pieces of correspondence which they say supports their position. 
Conversely Mr N has provided a detailed account of where he and Mr N have been living 
since as far back as 2011, as well as testimony that Mr N is Mr Ts carer as a consequence 
of his age and health conditions.
Ive thought about what both parties have said and, in particular, the evidence Mr N has 
provided. I find his testimony together with the items hes provided to support it to be 
persuasive and Im satisfied that although Mr N and Mr T werent always living in the UK, 
they were living together, albeit in various different countries. I accept there were periods of 
time when Mr N was not in the same country as Mr T. Hes explained there were occasions 
in which he needed to travel to a different country apart from Mr T to spend time with his 
Partner who was residing at Mr Ts UK address for example or to attend medical 
appointments himself, but these trips tended to amount to less than a week in duration on 
each occasion.  
I know that DAS feel that there were times when Mr N and Mr T were living apart. But they 
havent demonstrated any specific instances in which this took place. And Im not persuaded 
that the short trips Mr N took away from Mr T meant that he was no longer living with him.  
The evidence DAS have referred to only demonstrates that Mr N and Mr T have a home in 
another country as well as one in the UK and that they lived in another country during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. So, what theyve said essentially seems to support Mr Ns account of 
his and Mr Ts movements around Europe since 2011. 
I note the investigator asked DAS to comment on the detailed account Mr N provided about 
his and Mr Ts living arrangements since 2011 as well as the documents Mr N supplied to 
support his testimony. DAS didnt comment on that. In the absence of anything specific that 
disproves Mr Ns account of things, Im not satisfied that DAS are entitled to decline cover for 
Mr Ns claims on the basis that he and Mr T werent living together.
Ive also thought about DAS suggestion that theyd be entitled to decline cover for Mr Ns 
claim on the basis that Mr T didnt notify them of a change of address, particularly during the 
Covid-19 pandemic when he was staying in another country. DAS say this would apply if Mr 
T stayed in another country for 30 days or more and didnt tell them about this. 
The policy does require policyholders to confirm if they are going to change address or a 
policyholders home is going to become unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row. It also 
requires policyholders to confirm if someone other than the policyholder and his/her family is 
going to live in their home. Mr N has said that before he and Mr T set up their second home 
in another country, they asked their home insurer whether they needed to report this issue to 
them. He says they were told that as long as they were keeping their UK home and that that 
property wouldnt remain unoccupied for longer than a month there was nothing for them to 
report. As I understand it Mr Ns Partner, who would be defined as Mr Ts family for the 
purposes of this policy was staying in Mr Ts UK property throughout the time Mr T was 
staying abroad. Because of this and in light of the information Mr T and Mr N say they were 
given by their insurer, Im not and persuaded that the policy was conditions were breached. 
In particular I dont think having a second home meant they were changing address 
necessarily, particularly given Mr Ns testimony that he and Mr T continued to maintain Mr 
Ts UK home, which was occupied by family.
Putting things right
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should reconsider Mr Ns claim for cover to bring a claim against his employer in respect of an alleged failure to make reasonable 
adjustments under the remaining terms of the policy on the basis that he is eligible to claim 
on Mr Ts policy because he is considered to always live with him.
My final decision
I uphold Mr N and Mr Ts complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited and direct them to comply with my award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman