DRN-2364026
The complaint
Mrs D says Provident Personal Credit Limited, irresponsibly lent to her. She says that 
Provident didnt carry out in depth checks before lending. If it had made these checks it 
wouldve seen that the lending wasnt affordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home collected loans Provident provided to Mrs D between 
November and December 2007. Some of the information provided to me about the lending is 
in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 17/11/2007 £300 56 16/12/2008
2 29/12/2007 £300 56 16/12/2008
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Ds complaint and thought that loan 2 shouldnt have been 
given. Provident agreed with our adjudicator and made an offer to settle the complaint on 
this basis.
Mrs D agreed with this at first but then she asked that an ombudsman look at loan 1. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision about this lending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mrs D could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Provident accepted our adjudicators opinion about loan 2. Because of this I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be commenting about it further. I 
have included this loan in the putting things right section below. 
For loan 1 Mrs D needed to repay £9 a week for 56 weeks. Both sides havent been able to 
provide detail about what Mrs D said her income was at the time at sale. This is 
understandable given the passage time since the loan was approved. But Provident has said 
that it thought the loan was likely to have been affordable for her, and this doesnt seem 
unreasonable. 
I havent seen any further information that shows that Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs D was having.  Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
Mrs D circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Provident to rely on the 
information it wouldve obtained for loan 1.
Mrs D has provided some information that shows she was having difficulty with her mortgage 
provider around the same time these loans were started. So I can accept that Mrs D wasnt 
always entirely on top her finances. But Ive not seen any persuasive information that 
Provident knew about this at the time, or that this wouldve necessarily led to Provident not 
lending.  
Overall, in these circumstances, I think its likely the assessment Provident did before 
approving loan 1 was reasonable. So, I also think Providents decision to approve this loan 
was reasonable and Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint about it. 
Putting things right
Provident shouldnt have given Mrs D loan 2.
A) Provident should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Provident should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Provident should pay Mrs D the total of A plus B.
D) Provident should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Ds credit file in 
relation to loan 2. If Provident has sold this loan Provident should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to deduct tax from this interest. Provident 
should give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman