DRN-3477160
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about delays by Amtrust Europe Limited in dealing with a claim on 
their building warranty.
Except where otherwise stated, where I refer to Amtrust that includes any agents or 
contractors acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J bought their house in 2013. They later found there were various issues with 
the construction of the property and made a claim on their policy. They wanted Amtrust to 
arrange for repairs to be carried out.
The claim has been going on for a number of years and Mr and Mrs J have made two 
previous complaints to us
.
In the first complaint, an ombudsman directed Amtrust to deal with an issue with flooring, 
pay compensation and reimburse some costs. Mr and Mrs J moved out of the house while 
repairs were carried out. In April 2018 Mr and Mrs J were told the repairs had been 
completed and they moved back into the house.
In November 2018 they made a second complaint. They were unhappy with the quality of 
the repairs and said the works hadnt all been completed before they moved back in.
In December 2018 Amtrust replied to the complaint saying it hadnt done anything wrong. 
When that complaint came to us, an ombudsman issued a decision relating to issues 
between April and December 2018. He found that Amtrust hadnt completed the repairs to a 
satisfactory standard by April. He accepted that further investigations were then needed, as 
there was a problem with standing water inside the house and the cause of that wasnt 
known. The ombudsman directed Amtrust to pay compensation for the distress caused. 
Mr and Mrs J were also seeking compensation for loss of earnings but the ombudsman 
didnt think there should be a payment in respect of this.
Mr and Mrs J then made this complaint about further delays after December 2018. When our 
investigator considered this, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Amtrust had 
accepted there were some further delays and offered compensation of £5,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this. The investigator thought that was reasonable.
Although Mr and Mrs J again sought compensation for loss of earnings, the investigator 
didnt think that was warranted. She accepted that the delays contributed to Mr Js health 
issues, but said this had been considered in the previous complaints and had remained 
constant throughout.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
They said the compensation for distress and inconvenience should be higher than £5,000, 
and they sought compensation for loss of earnings.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint saying I intended to uphold the complaint 
and direct Amtrust to pay compensation for Mr Js loss of earnings. I set out my reasons as 
follows:
As Ive mentioned, we have dealt with two previous complaints and I cant reconsider any 
points covered in those complaints. This complaint only covers issued between December 
2018 and August 2020, when Amtrust issued its response to this complaint. If Mr and Mrs J 
are unhappy about anything thats happened more recently, that would need to be dealt with 
as a separate complaint.
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
After Mr and Mrs J returned to their home in April 2018 they raised concerns about water 
and dampness in the property. Amtrust arranged for further investigations to be carried out 
between June and October 2018, with reports received in November. I agree it was 
reasonable for Amtrust to carry out further investigations as it wasnt clear what was causing 
the issues and this needed to be looked into. But Id expect those investigations  and any 
repairs works that followed  to be dealt with in a reasonable time, bearing in mind the duty 
to deal with claims promptly.
So once Amtrust received the reports in October 2018, it should have arranged for the 
necessary work to be carried out. But work to reinstate the floor didnt start until October 
2019. Amtrust says there was avoidable delay of around 6 months but I agree with our 
investigator that the delay was longer than that. In effect, the delay continued from the start 
of the period Im considering in this complaint  December 2018  until October 2019, a 
period of 10 months.
I appreciate the impact on Mr and Mrs J during this time was severe. The family wasnt able 
to use a whole floor of their house during this time. And taking into account Mr Js medical 
condition, this would have been particularly distressing. But as Ive said, Im not looking at 
the whole time the claim has been ongoing. They have already received compensation for 
the earlier period covered by the previous complaint. And Im not considering any more 
recent issues.
Ive also taken into other factors mentioned by Mr and Mrs J. They were unhappy with the 
work carried out by a contractor. Amtrust did agree not to use that contractor again, but I 
think it could have made that decision sooner.
Taking everything into account, I think the offer of £5,000 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays during this period was reasonable and dont require Amtrust to make 
any further payment in respect of this.
Mr J has suffered with health issues throughout the time the claim has been ongoing and 
hasnt been able to return to work. Mr and Mrs J say the only reason hes been unable to 
recover enough to return to work is the fact that the claim hasnt been resolved. They have 
provided medical evidence in support of their view that it will only be when the claim has 
finally been resolved fully that he will be able to recover and return to work. So they want to 
claim for loss of earnings.
The policy itself wouldnt cover Mr Js loss of earnings. But if the sole reason he cant work is 
the fact that the claim hasnt been resolved  in other words, he has suffered a loss because 
of delays by Amtrust  thats something he could be compensated for. He shouldnt be out of 
pocket as a result of something Amtrust has got wrong.So the issue I need to consider is whether Mr J was unable to return to work because of the 
delays in dealing with the claim
.
Before proceeding with the decision I asked for more information about Mr Js medical 
condition. Having reviewed the evidence they have provided, its clear he has had serious 
health issues for some years, for which he has been having treatment.
The medical reports Ive seen refer to the ongoing issues with the house and the insurance 
claim. The earlier reports also refer to other issues affecting Mr J, but in more recent reports 
the only issue being mentioned is the insurance claim. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive 
seen that in 2019 the only issue preventing Mr J from recovering was the ongoing delay in 
resolving the claim.
The previous ombudsman said the delays up the point he was considering were not the sole 
reason why the repairs had not been completed. In particular, he noted that at that time 
Amtrust needed to investigate what was causing the standing water and dampness in the 
house, and it was reasonable to allow some time for that. So it was the situation in the 
property as a whole, rather than any delays by Amtrust, that were preventing Mr J from 
getting better. But he said those investigations should be dealt with promptly.
As Amtrust has acknowledged those investigations were not carried out promptly. There 
were delays from December 2018 to October 2019. If that delay hadnt happened, its likely 
things would have been resolved more quickly. Given the medical evidence that its only the 
continuing claim that is preventing Mr J from recovering and being able to return to work, 
that delay of around 10 months will have delayed his recovery. Im satisfied the fact he 
wasnt able to recover during that period wasnt just down to the overall situation, but to the 
delays by Amtrust.
It follows from this that any loss of income suffered in relation to that 10 month period should 
be reimbursed.
Once the works were underway, it would have taken some time for them to be completed in 
any event. Im only able to compensate for periods of avoidable or unnecessary delay. In 
other words, where Amtrust was at fault and wasnt taking action that it should have been 
taking. And I cant comment on whats happened more recently or any alleged ongoing loss, 
as Im only looking at the period covered by this complaint. Nor can I comment on periods 
covered by the previous complaints. I appreciate Mr and Mrs J have asked for compensation 
for the whole period from December 2018 to August 2020. But for the reasons given above I 
think the avoidable delay was from December 2018 to October 2019, which is 10 months.
Mr J has been receiving income protection payments but these dont cover his full salary. 
Hes provided payslips which show details of the salary he would have been paid during that 
period if hed been able to work, which would have been £7,137.25 per month
From January to May 2019 the amount he actually received was £5,133.39 per month  a 
difference of £2,003.86. From June 2019 the amount he actually received was £5,287.39 per 
month  a difference of £1,849.86. But those figures are for gross pay, before tax. So if I 
awarded compensation on those figures he would receive more than hes entitled to.
Assuming (based on the equivalent annual salary) that income would be taxed at 40%, there 
would be a deduction up to May 2019 of £801.54, so a net difference is £1,202.32 per 
month, amounting to £6,011.60. From June 2019 the deduction would have been £739.94, 
so a net difference of £1,109.92 per month, amounting to £5,549.60. The total net loss 
therefore is £11,561.20. So my view is that this amount should be reimbursed.Mr J says he would have received performance related increases, which would have led to a 
higher pay. But since he wasnt working I cant say whether he would have met any 
performance targets set for him or received increases as a result. And I have to make my 
decision based on the evidence I have, which shows the reference pay for the whole period 
to be £7,137.25.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given Im minded to uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited
to pay to Mr and Mrs J compensation of £11,561.20, together with simple interest at 8% per 
year on that amount from 1 November 2019 to the date of payment.
Replies to the provisional decision
Amtrust replied to say it had no further comments to add.
Mr and Mrs J have provided further comments. I wont set them all out in full, but they 
include the following points:
The complaint has two parts  the delays in beginning the work to rectify the lower 
ground floor (strand 1) and the delays in either getting the contractors back to 
complete the work on the rest of the property or removing those contractors from the 
project (strand 2).
The provisional decision addresses the first part. They accept that once work began 
on the first part no further compensation is due and so are minded to accept the 
compensation of £11,561.20 for that. But it doesnt address strand 2 and says 
Amtrust paid them £5,000 for the second part, which it didnt.
Amtrust did very little after October 2019 to get things moving and only removed the 
contractors following pressure from them and their solicitors. This caused further 
delay and the compensation should cover this period too.
Amtrust wrongly led them to believe the delays were due to the contractor not 
responding to it but this isnt correct. Amtrust and its agents are solely responsible for 
this further delay.
As well as the loss of earnings, this delay had a great impact on Mr Js health. The 
compensation doesnt adequately reflect how serious this was. 
There should be a payment for loss of earnings for this later period and the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience should be increased beyond £5,000.
The total award they are seeking is as follows: 
- strand 1 - £11,516.20 plus simple interest at 8% from November 2019 (to cover 
loss of earnings from December 2018 to October 2019); 
- strand 2 - £11,099.16 plus simple interest at 8% from August 2020 (to cover loss 
of earnings from November 2019 to August 2020); and 
- an award for distress and inconvenience at the Extreme level  not less than 
£5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J say they are minded to accept the compensation for loss of earnings in the 
period up to October 2019 (which they refer to as strand 1). Neither party has provided any 
further comments in relation to this and so theres no reason for me to change my 
provisional view on that. I do need to consider whether any further compensation should be paid for loss of earnings 
for the later period or for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs J say I havent addressed the later period in the provisional decision. What I said 
was that there was avoidable delay caused by Amtrust in the period up to October 2019. I 
didnt think there was delay after that period that would justify a further payment for loss of 
earnings. Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with the actions of the contractors and wanted them 
removed. In my provisional decision I noted that while Amtrust had agreed to this, it should 
have taken this action earlier. And this was one of the factors I took into account when 
deciding the compensation of £5,000 for distress and inconvenience was reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J think there should also be compensation for loss of earnings for 
this later period. Ive considered this but dont think it would be fair to make that award. The 
compensation for loss of earnings for the earlier period is based on the fact there were 
avoidable delays that were solely due to Amtrusts delays. During the later period, there 
were various factors at play  not least the impact of covid-19. There was some 
correspondence in February and early March 2020 about the contractors. But the site then 
had to be closed due to lockdown and all work stopped. Nothing happened until June and 
then, after further correspondence, Amtrust agreed to remove the contractors in August. So 
while there were issues with the contractors, there were other issues too. I wouldnt hold 
Amtrust solely responsible for the lack of progress during this period. Taking everything into 
account I dont think a further payment for loss of earnings should be made. 
As Ive said, what happened during this period forms part of the consideration for what would 
be a reasonable payment to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them.
In most cases, the compensation we award for distress and inconvenience is less than 
£5,000. Our highest awards, for the most extreme impact we see, go beyond £5,000. I do 
appreciate that the circumstances have been very difficult for Mr and Mrs J  this matter has 
been going on for some years. But the compensation is not intended to cover the whole 
period. Im only looking at events between December 2018 and August 2020. Mr and Mrs J 
have already received compensation for delays before then. And if there are any further 
delays more recently those can be considered separately. 
A payment of £5,000 is generally appropriate where the things a business got wrong have 
caused sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to 
daily life typically lasting more than a year. That is the case here and in the circumstances 
Im satisfied the payment of £5,000 was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to pay to 
Mr and Mrs J compensation of £11,561.20, together with simple interest at 8% per year on 
that amount from 1 November 2019 to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman