DRN-2774791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that their secured loan was mis-sold in 2017 by OSL Financial 
Consultancy Limited trading as MortgageKey. They say Mr Ps spending was out of control, 
and he had a gambling problem, so MortgageKeys advice was irresponsible.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P applied for a secured loan and the advice was given by an intermediary  
MortgageKey  and the loan completed in October 2017.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs P complained to the lender, and then to MortgageKey about the secured 
loan. To be clear, this complaint reference just relates to MortgageKey.
MortgageKey rejected the complaint and so Mr and Mrs P referred it to us. Our investigator 
looked at things and didnt think the advice MortgageKey had given was unsuitable. She said 
it took the information Mr and Mrs P gave in good faith, and there was no requirement for it 
to request further information if the lenders requirements had been met. The loan reduced 
their outgoings significantly, which met Mr and Mrs Ps recorded objectives. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have set out their account in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs P but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers 
instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be 
asked or answered.
Mr and Mrs P approached MortgageKey for a debt consolidation loan. Just because it didnt 
turn them away doesnt mean it was acting irresponsibly. If Mr and Mrs P thought Mr Ps 
spending was out of control, and this loan wasnt a good idea for them, then they didnt have 
to take it out.
MortgageKey based its advice on the information Mr and Mrs P gave it. There was nothing 
to suggest that the loan repayments would be unaffordable, that Mr P had a gambling 
problem, or that his spending was out of control. Mr and Mrs P say the number of payday 
loans hed taken should have been a red flag, but the lender queried those as part of its 
underwriting criteria and the response Mr P gave by email was:
With regards to the payday loans. I took these out to finish elements of the construction 
work, (extension to house) with the intention of paying it off straight away. After 
consideration this is not a sustainable way of doing it and I wish to spread my payments 
into monthly affordable amounts, leaving me and [Mrs P] more money at the end of each 
month after paying out all bills etc.
I understand the lender then checked and could see that planning consent had been granted 
the previous year for an extension to Mr and Mrs Ps property, so that explanation seemed 
plausible.
An income and expenditure form was filled in for this application and one of the questions on 
that was how much Mr and Mrs P spent on gambling each month, and the answer given was 
£11. Whilst Mr P has said if MortgageKey had asked for copies of his bank statements then 
it would have shown the true picture it had no regulatory responsibility to do so. In given 
advice it has the right to trust its customers are telling it the truth, it doesnt have to 
independently verify that information. If the lender wants to verify the information then it will 
request the information to do so, but a mortgage broker itself doesnt have to verify what it is 
told.
Here the lender asked for payslips, P60s and copies of credit card statements for the credit 
cards that were being consolidated. So that is all MortgageKey needed to ask for. 
As there was an issue with Mrs Ps pay, the lender asked for a copy of Mrs Ps bank 
statement just to show the income credit going in. It has said it didnt need to see the full 
statement, just that item. Mr and Mrs P have said as MortgageKey then only asked them to 
provide a filtered statement to show the credit, it was acting negligently as it was a way of 
the lender turning a blind eye to any potential issues.
Whilst I understand the point Mr and Mrs P are making, I cant hold MortgageKey liable for 
the fact the lender was only interested in seeing the income credit, not a full statement. 
Whilst the lender didnt use the phrase filtered statement it has said all it needed to see was 
the income credit so I see nothing sinister in MortgageKey describing what the lender 
needed in that way. In any event, it seems Mr and Mrs P are saying that it was Mr P that had 
issues with his spending and gambling, and from the bank statements weve been provided I 
can see those transactions were from his own account. The partial bank statement that was 
provided for Mrs P to evidence her salary credit is for a different account which she held in 
her sole name, and that shows no gambling transactions. So it seems that even if the full 
months bank statement had been provided that it wouldnt have raised any concerns, unless 
Mr and Mrs P are saying Mrs P was also gambling excessively just not in the few days the 
bank statement covers.
MortgageKey trusted the information that Mr and Mrs P gave was truthful, and it was allowed 
to do that. I cant hold MortgageKey liable for the fact Mr and Mrs P withheld important 
information, or that Mr P wasnt truthful about what he used the payday loans for. 
MortgageKey gave its advice based on the information that had been disclosed to it, and it 
didnt have to verify that information was true. 
Mr and Mrs P have said that their monthly payments were increased when the loan was 
underwritten, and MortgageKey didnt tell them it would be cheaper to take out the additional 
borrowing with their main mortgage lender. Theyve also said they incurred an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid the loan early. To answer those points:
MortgageKey had no control over the interest rate that the lender was willing to agree to 
lend at. It issued the illustration in good faith based on the information available, but at underwriting stage the lender decided the rate should be increased. All MortgageKey 
could do was pass on that information, and check Mr and Mrs P were happy to still 
proceed. It did that.
The lender Mr and Mrs P had their main mortgage with didnt offer further advances for 
debt consolidation at that time, which is why MortgageKey couldnt recommend that 
option.
The details of the ERC would have been set out in the illustration, and then the 
mortgage offer. The mortgage offer was the legal contract that Mr and Mrs P entered 
into and MortgageKey had no control over that. If Mr and Mrs P feel the ERC they were 
charged doesnt match that as set out in the mortgage contract, then thats a matter 
theyll need to take up with the lender directly as it issued the offer and it charged the 
ERC.
Based on the information Mr and Mrs P gave to MortgageKey the advice to take this secured 
loan wasnt unsuitable and therefore I simply cant uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, 
however much they may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman