DRN-4205222
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about the way esure Insurance Limited has repaired his car after he 
made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But 
in summary Mr L is unhappy with the way esure handled a claim he made on his car 
insurance policy. The outstanding issues hes raised are as follows:
There are repairs that werent carried out to a satisfactory standard  notably paint 
flaking away in parts and water ingress into the boot. He got an estimate from his local 
garage of around £10,200 to fix the issues.
The repairs took a significant period of time and he thinks its unfair he had to pay for 
insurance during that time.
The garage drove the car around 80 miles and he wants esure to refund the cost of 
petrol used. 
esure offered to pay Mr L around £2,000 towards the repairs, which is the amount it 
estimates it will cost to fix it, to enable him to use a garage of his choice. It also offered him 
£450 in compensation. Mr L didnt think this offer was fair, so he referred his complaint to 
this Service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Im conscious a lot has happened in this claim, but most of this has been resolved 
previously and isnt part of this complaint. In this decision Im considering what esure needs 
to do to rectify any poor repairs carried out by the repairing garage. Im also considering 
whether it should pay any further compensation.
Repairs to the car
Mr L has highlighted a number of issues with the paintwork, following the respray carried out 
by esures approved repairer. Its not disputed that esure needs to put this right, but the 
issue in question is now how it should go about doing so. 
esure has offered to pay Mr L around £2,000 to enable him to go to a garage of his choice to 
get the issues resolved. But, Mr Ls garage has quoted around £10,200 to resolve the 
matter. However, it seems to me that this is to carry out a full respray of the car and I dont 
think this is necessary. While I acknowledge there are a number of blemishes on the 
respray, they are minor in their nature. So I think localised repairs and respray would resolve 
this matter.
Im also persuaded by what Mr L has told us that the issues related to the water ingress in 
the boot are related to the repairs that were carried out. Im persuaded by Mr Ls testimony 
regarding this and I think its most likely that the water ingress is occurring as a result of 
parts not being refitted correctly. So I think esure should arrange to put this right too. 
Im satisfied that esures initial offer of £2,000 for Mr L to be able to use a local repairer was 
fair in the circumstances. But I think Mr L should also be entitled to require esure to put 
things right. However, I acknowledge Mr L has lost faith in the initial repairing garage and I 
can understand why. esure has numerous repairing garages on its approved repairer 
network. So if Mr L is unwilling to allow the car to return to the original repairing garage  
which would be the usual process in these circumstances  then esure should arrange for 
the car to go to another garage on its approved repairer network. It should also provide him 
with a courtesy car during that time if he requires one.
I note Mr L has queried why he wasnt given the option to use a different approved repairer 
before instead of himself having to look for garages to do the rectification work. But, as I 
said, its usual practice for the car to go back to the original repairer. And I think esure was 
looking to assist Mr L by giving him the option to use a garage of his choice to put things 
right. So Im not persuaded esure has treated Mr L unreasonably in this regard.
Should esure pay further compensation?
Mr L is unhappy with how long it took to resolve the claim and he wants esure to refund the 
amount he paid for the insurance during that time. But I dont think it needs to. Where 
something has gone wrong  such as a claim taking longer than it should do  we look to put 
the consumer back in the position theyd be in if everything had gone as it should have done. 
In this case, Mr L was always going to have to pay his insurance policy, so hes not out of 
pocket as a result of any delays that may have occurred. And hes had the benefit of the 
insurance policy in having his claim settled. So it follows that I dont think esure needs to 
refund any part of the insurance premium.
Mr L is also unhappy that the repairing garage drove around 80 miles in his car. But 
repairing garages will generally carry out a road test following repairs, to assess the work 
done on the car. And I havent seen anything to show that Mr Ls car was driven more than it 
should have done. So I cant reasonably require esure to compensate him for this. However, 
Mr L has suffered a large degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of whats 
happened. However, since our involvement, esure has now agreed to pay Mr L a further 
£150 in compensation in addition to the £450 its already offered. And I think thats fair, so I 
dont think it needs to increase the amount its offered any further.
Neither party accepted my provisional decision.
Mr L said I hadnt referred to a lot of things that had happened and he didnt think the 
situation was as clear cut as Id said. And he set out the following:
esure initially offered him £3,000 to put things right, but later reduced it to around £2,000. 
He doesnt think this cost would cover the parts alone that were broken;
He set out that there were a number of things still outstanding:
-Front lower bumper splitter
-Boot lid is broken
-Missing parts from the engine bay
He maintained that a full respray is required. He said he visited numerous garages, but 
they werent willing to carry out any work as he says they told him the paintwork was so 
poor. He says a paint specialist said the paintwork was poor all over the car. He 
highlighted  that esures engineer inspected the car on a dull wet day, so didnt see a 
true reflection of the poor quality and contamination of the paintwork. He said the 
paintwork is getting worse.
He maintained that there was no reason for esure to drive the car. And he said esure had agreed to refund the cost of the fuel.
He said hed bought custom fit mats, but they didnt fit. However, due to the length of 
time esure had the car, he wasnt able to return them. And he says esure had agreed to 
refund these costs.
He thinks its unfair that esure made him go to numerous other garages if it had other 
approved repairers available.
esure responded to say it didnt think Mr L had raised issues with the boot leaking before. 
And it said the other issues hed raised were down to wear and tear. It also said that it had 
actually paid Mr L £950 in compensation throughout the complaint journey. So it didnt think 
it needed to pay anything further. Finally it said that it didnt have any other approved 
repairers in the area other than the garage it initially used. It queried whether, if Mr L is 
unhappy with its chosen garage, it could settle the claim on a cash-in-lieu basis based upon 
the costs set out by the independent garage who inspected Mr Ls car in November 2021.
In June 2023 I issued a second provisional decision and I said the following:
I should first set out that esure has shown that it has actually paid Mr L a total of £950 in 
compensation. Its paid him £800 in compensation over four separate offers and its waived 
his £150 excess that he would have had to pay under the terms of the policy. Im now 
satisfied that this is fair compensation, so I dont think it needs to pay him anything further. 
The issue that remains outstanding is what repairs need to be carried out. Firstly, I note Mr L 
has commented about other damage  not including the water ingress in the boot. But the 
issue with the boot not working properly was considered in a previous complaint he raised 
with this service so Im not commenting further on this. The primary issues in question in this 
complaint relate to the quality of the paint respray and water ingress in the boot. Ive also 
considered whether esure has a liability regarding the other issues raised in the independent 
inspection carried out in November 2021.
Since issuing my provisional decision, Ive asked esure to provide further comments 
regarding Mr Ls response. esure has confirmed it agreed to refund the cost of the mats if 
they didnt fit. I think this is fair.
I note esure has said it doesnt think Mr L raised the issue with the boot leaking water before. 
But I can see he said he sent emails to esure in August and November 2021 highlighting 
issues with water ingress. So Im satisfied that this issue was part of the concerns Mr L 
raised before. esure hasnt given me anything to show that my conclusion regarding this was 
unfair. So I remain of the opinion that it should arrange to put this right.
I can also see that the independent inspection has set out a number of other concerns. But 
Im inclined to conclude that most of these are likely to be pre-existing issues. Ill now explain 
why:
Top cover trim between front bumper and front panel insecure with clips missing  On 
balance, I think this is likely to be related to the repair as its likely the bumper would 
have been removed to facilitate the respray. So I think esure should arrange to put this 
right.
Nearside wheel arch liner screws insecure and one missing.  Im not persuaded this is 
down to the repairs carried out. Reviewing the photos, I think its most likely this was a 
pre-existing issue as I see no reason why these screws would have been removed by 
the repairing garage to facilitate the repair.
Lower front bumper grille broken.  Im not persuaded Ive seen anything to show that 
this was damaged by either the incident or the repairing garage. Missing parts from the engine bay  Im not persuaded Ive seen enough to set out that 
these parts were likely to have been misplaced by the repairing garage.
So I think esure is only required to resolve the issue with the top cover trim being insecure. 
I note esure has set out that it may not have any other approved repairers in the area to 
carry out the repairs to Mr Ls car. And its queried whether it could settle the claim as a 
cash-in- lieu of repairs settlement in line with the cost estimate of the approved repairer. Ive 
also considered Mr Ls comments that the level of paintwork was really poor.
I think esure should make reasonable attempts to source a garage to carry out the required 
rectification work. But, if this isnt possible or Mr L is unhappy with the chosen garage, I think 
it would be fair for esure to settle the matter on a cash-in-lieu of repair basis and its fair to 
assess this based on the cost estimate of the independent assessor. Ive considered Mr Ls 
comments that the paintwork was poor. But I remain of the opinion that a full respray is not 
required. And I think this appears to have also been the opinion of the independent 
inspecting assessor. So I remain of the opinion that the repair estimates Mr L submitted 
arent a fair reflection of the actual cost of repair.
Finally Ive thought about Mr Ls comment that esure said it would refund the cost of the fuel 
used for while the car was in its possession. But esure has told me that it doesnt have 
anything to support this. I also havent seen anything to confirm it did say as such. But, even 
if it did, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded its required to 
honour this.
esure responded to accept my provisional decision. But Mr L didnt agree and, in particular, 
raised the following points:
The paint coming off the car is something that has started to happen after esure first 
offered £3,000 to resolve the issues. So he said maintained the amount esure is 
proposing to pay as a cash settlement is sufficient to rectify the outstanding issues.
He maintained the garage didnt need to drive the car and he reiterated esure had 
previously agreed to refund the cost of petrol.
He said the estimated £10,200 wasnt just the cost of a respray, but it included labour 
and materials as well.
The lower bumper was damaged by the vandal who stood on the splitter and broke it. 
The damage in the boot is a panel that was broken when the garage decided to take the 
boot apart or when the garage said they received his car back in bits.  
The missing parts were not missing before the incident. He said they were removed to 
access other parts. He set out that the manager told him theyd rushed to put the car 
back together. And he thought that was why the boot is taking on water.
He said he was happy to get an updated price of repairs for the paint work, so long as its 
provided by an independent paint shop not associated with esure to get a realistic price 
and so long as esure transports the car to and from said paint shop. He also said he was 
willing to have esure have the manufacturer give esure a price for the supply and fit of 
parts that have been broken or not replaced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr L has said Ive not commented on a lot of whats happened and he thinks Ive 
not been provided with all the information. Im also aware that hes raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with the way esure has handled this matter and why he 
doesnt agree with my decisions. Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised 
but, instead Ive focussed throughout this matter on what I consider to be the key points I 
need to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I assure Mr L however, that I have read and considered 
everything hes provided.
Ive read and consider Mr Ls latest comments and reviewed whats happened in depth 
again. I dont intend to comment any further on the merits of this complaint as Im satisfied 
my provisional decisions address the points Mr L has raised, with the exception of one point. 
I note Mr L has said that the front bumper was damaged by the vandals when they climbed 
on the car. And hes said the attachments that fix it to the rest of the bumper that have been 
broken. Ive looked at the photos of the car when it first arrived at the garage showing the 
vandalization damage. Having done so, Im persuaded that its most likely that the bumper 
fixings were damaged by the vandals. And, it follows, that I think esure should pay to fix this 
in addition to the other areas of damage I set out in my second provisional decision that I 
think it should repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require esure Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. I think the £800 in compensation its offered Mr L over four separate offers is fair 
compensation. But it should pay this to Mr L directly if it hasnt already done so.
2. Arrange to resolve the issue with the water ingress in the boot, poor paintwork, the top 
cover trim between front bumper and front panel insecure with clips missing and the 
broken bumper fixings. It should make reasonable attempts to source a garage to carry 
out this work. It should also provide Mr L with a courtesy car during that time if he 
requires one. But, if its unable to source a garage or Mr L is unhappy with the chosen 
garage, esure can choose to settle the matter on a cash-in-lieu of repair basis and its 
fair to assess this based on the cost estimate of the independent assessor.
3. Refund the cost of the bespoke mats Mr L purchased. It should pay 8% simple interest 
on this from the date he paid for them, until he gets this amount back. If esure thinks that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. esure can arrange to collect these 
mats at its expense if it chooses to do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman