DRN-2551587
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complain about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) deal with a 
chargeback request.
What happened
Mr M says he paid just under £9,000 to a company I will call T in October 2015. He says 
Ts assets were later frozen and the company subject to legal proceedings. Mr M says he 
contacted NatWest in around July 2016 to ask it to raise a chargeback but was told he would 
have to wait until the legal proceedings against T were ended. He says those proceedings 
ended in around 2020 and so contacted NatWest to raise the chargeback but it said it had 
no record of the 2016 conversation and was out of time to raise a chargeback. Mr M would 
like compensation for the lost investment and for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused.
NatWest says it doesnt have a record of the telephone call in 2016 and has paid £30 for any 
inconvenience for what it may have said. It says it is out of time to raise a chargeback.
Mrs B and Mr M brought their complaint to us and provided further information. Mr M says he 
e-mailed a law firm in the United States of America about his complaint in August 2016 and 
included details about what NatWest told him. He also says that a different business froze 
Ts accounts in early 2016. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and recommended 
NatWest pay a further £170 compensation. The investigator explained the chargeback rules 
and thought Mr M would have been out of time for raising a complaint in July 2016 in any 
event and that any claim would be unlikely to succeed. The investigator accepted Mr M had 
been caused distress and inconvenience by not being told about the chargeback rules in 
2016 and the unlikihood of success and so recommended the compensation increase.
Mrs B and Mr M dont accept that view and Mr M says the call to NatWest about the 
chargeback was earlier than July 2016. They say the compensation doesnt go far enough.
I asked NatWest for further information and it has confirmed it has a record of Mr M making 
contact with it on 7 April 2016 about the payments to T and has said it couldnt have raised a 
chargeback as customers of T received what they paid for, namely advertising packages. It 
says the issue of revenue being paid was a separate issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall conclusion that NatWest should pay further 
compensation as recommended by the investigator, but I think it has acted fairly by not 
raising a chargeback and that any chargeback would have been unlikely to have succeeded. 
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
The chargeback rules are not, as in this case, set by NatWest but by the card providers. 
There are strict time limit rules for raising a chargeback and no guarantee even if one is 
raised of success. The scheme is voluntary, and we would normally expect a business to 
raise a chargeback when asked within the time limit of 120 days, unless it reasonably 
considers there is no reasonable prospect of success.
There is no dispute here that Mr M made the payments to T in October 2015. Im satisfied 
that the earliest evidence of contact between Mr M and NatWest is on 7 April 2016. So Im 
satisfied that more than 120 days had passed from the date of transaction in October 2015 
and that Mr M ought to have been told then that he was out of time for making a chargeback. 
I dont think the longer time period for raising a chargeback applies in this case.
Im also satisfied that even if Mr M was within the time limits for making a chargeback then it 
highly unlikely it would have succeeded. I say that as Mr M paid for a package of adverts 
that could generate a revenue. I think it appears he received that package, but his issue is 
about if the scheme was fraudulent or a Ponzi scheme and that a different business froze 
Ts account. For those reasons I dont think a chargeback could have helped Mr M recover 
his money which he agreed to pay to T, and I dont think the chargeback scheme is designed 
for these types of potentially complex disputes.
I think it clear that Mr M relied on NatWests advice and can see that he refers to it in his e-
mail to the law firm. So, I accept that Mr M thought that a chargeback could be made in 2020 
and when told it could not, must have been caused distress and inconvenience. For that 
reason, I think NatWest should increase its compensation offer which I can see its fairly 
agreed to do.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M was outside the time limits for making a chargeback but in 
any event it highly unlikely one would have succeeded. For those reasons I cant fairly order 
NatWest repay Mr M the money he paid to T.  
Putting things right
I intend to order NatWest to pay a further £170 compensation but I accept Mrs B and Mr M 
may not wish to accept that and so I will leave it to them to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mrs B and Mr M £170 compensation. Mrs B and Mr Ms acceptance of this 
decision would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman