DRN-3138718
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received from Scottish Widows Limited when discussing 
his options for taking his pension at his selected retirement date.
What happened
Mr A had a personal pension policy with Scottish Widows, the value of which was split 
between with-profits and unit-linked funds. The with-profits part of Mr As pension had a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) which could only be taken on Mr As selected retirement 
date of 28 July 2019. The unit-linked part of the policy did not have a GAR.
Mr A had a call with Scottish Widows on 25 July 2019, during which he says he was told he 
could take the GAR on the with-profits part of his pension and deal with the unit-linked part  
later. Mr A later found out this wasnt possible, and he would have to take the whole pension 
as an annuity or lose the GAR, which was a valuable benefit. He decided to take the whole 
of his pension as an annuity and this was confirmed by Scottish Widows on 29 October.
Mr A complained that Scottish Widows should have made him aware of the option to transfer 
the unit-linked part of his pension to another provider before his retirement date. He said if 
hed done that, he could have kept the GAR and been free to find a better option for the rest 
of his pension. Instead, he had to take a lower annuity rate on the unit-linked part of the 
policy, as it wasnt possible to transfer part of his pension after the normal retirement date.
He says Scottish Widows should have given the option to transfer out his unit-linked part of 
the pension after his normal retirement date, as it didnt make him aware of this option 
before the deadline. He also says correspondence was sent to the wrong address. And he 
says its unfair that Scottish Widows agreed a three-month extension to take the GAR but 
wouldnt extend the deadline for the unit-linked part of the pension.
Scottish Widows accepted there had been some poor service and miscommunication around 
the time of the retirement date and paid compensation of £250 for this, but didnt agree it had 
caused any loss or that any further action was required. 
Mr A remained unhappy. He said he also lost valuable life cover which he couldnt replace 
and has incurred further expenses as he had to employ an independent financial adviser to 
make sense of the situation. 
Our investigator agreed there had been some poor service and compensation should be 
paid for that. Looking at all the circumstances he didnt think the sum of £250 was enough 
and asked Scottish Widows to increase the compensation to £500.
Scottish Widows didnt think the compensation should be increased. It raised a number of 
further points, including:
Mr A was sent letters on many occasions telling him his selected retirement date was 
28 July 2019 (and had replied to an earlier request for information in 2017) so he had 
plenty of notice of this but didnt contact Scottish Widows until 25 July, just three days 
before the retirement date;
Mr A was given a 90 day extension to deal with the GAR;
one letter in August 2019 was sent to the wrong address but this was due to the 
timing of receiving Mr As letter about a change of address;
some of the delays were due to waiting to hear from Mr A;
the compensation of £500 seems high in the circumstances.
Mr A also disagreed with the investigators view and raised a number of points. I wont set 
them all out in full but the key points include:
He has provided comments from an independent financial adviser who confirms he 
has been materially disadvantaged, including being denied the chance to use the 
open market option.
Actions (or lack of actions) should be construed against the party who failed to take 
action, or failed to do it correctly.
He wasnt in an equal bargaining position with the Scottish Widows adviser, who 
didnt make it clear to him that the unit-linked part of the pension had to be 
transferred out before his retirement date. He still had 1.5 days to transfer it to 
another provider. He would then have been able to take the GAR on the with-profits 
part of his pension and there would still be a unit-linked policy with life cover 
included, which would have been cheaper than the life cover he had to take out 
separately.
In addition to his financial loss, the huge stress he was placed under over a period of 
several months warrants a payment of £1,000.
He was given to understand he could take the with-profits part of his pension with the 
GAR and then transfer the unit-linked part, with the help of a financial adviser; if that 
wasnt correct its not clear why he was referred to an independent financial adviser.
He relied on the information given to him and Scottish Widows should be estopped 
from maintaining an unreasonable position by not back-dating the unit-linked part to 
the original maturity date, enabling their own appointed investment adviser to deal 
with the unit-linked policy. 
The investigator said Scottish Widows decision to allow a 90 day grace period was a 
commercial decision  it wasnt bound to this as it isnt in the terms and conditions. 
But this effectively means it can behave badly and then use the term commercial 
decision as an excuse.
What he wanted to do was partially transfer the pension and continue contributions 
beyond 60 with the unit-linked element. Scottish Widows gave him a financial adviser 
for that purpose but did not tell him or the adviser that the unit-linked element had to 
be transferred to a new provider. He has other pensions and would have been quite 
happy to transfer the unit-linked policy to any one of those.
The investigator considered the points raised by both Mr A and Scottish Widows but didnt 
change his view. Scottish Widows then said it would accept his recommendation and 
increase the compensation to £500. But Mr A still disagrees, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Options at retirement date
The starting point for considering the complaint is the terms and conditions for Mr As 
pension. The pension is designed to provide an annuity at the selected retirement date, but 
there is also the option to transfer the funds to another provider to obtain an annuity 
elsewhere. The guide to the GAR says that if the pension is taken at any date other than the selected retirement date, or in a different way (for example by transferring to a different 
provider) the GAR will be lost. Scottish Widows does however, allow a 90 day extension 
beyond the retirement date to complete the process for arranging the annuity.
Scottish Widows has explained that the only way the policy can be split, is if the unit-linked 
part of the pension is transferred to another provider before the selected retirement date. But 
this isnt written within the policy conditions, so it doesnt form part of the pension contract. 
Scottish Widows doesnt present this to customers  its only offered as a concession, if a 
customer asks for it. 
I dont think it would be fair to require Scottish Widows to do this. Theres no term in the 
contract which requires Scottish Widows to offer this option and no rules that require it to 
draw customers attention to it. Scottish Widows did have to make Mr A aware of his option 
to transfer to another provider and purchase an annuity elsewhere, and has shown it did that 
on several occasions. Mr A didnt express a desire to transfer his pension to anther provider 
before his selected retirement date. So this point simply never came up for discussion. 
Mr A also says he was misled during the phone call on 25 July 2019. Ive listened to the 
recording of that call. The adviser explained to Mr A the extension to the GAR deadline, as 
he had expressed an interest in taking an annuity in order to benefit from the GAR. The 
adviser also made clear to Mr A that the two parts of his pension had to be claimed at the 
same time. He said although the paperwork would quote the with-profits and unit-linked parts 
of his fund separately, they had to be claimed together and couldnt be separated.
Mr A says he was led to believe he could take the with-profits part of his pension  taking 
advantage of the GAR  and deal with the unit-linked part later, but I dont think he was. And 
the paperwork issued after the call set out the options available to Mr A. This didnt at any 
point offer the option of splitting the with profits and unit-linked parts of his policy. Mr A 
wasnt told during the call or in the correspondence afterwards that he could take the GAR 
and deal with the unit-linked part of his pension later.
Mr A has said the referral to a financial adviser during the phone call led him to believe he 
could deal with the unit-linked part of his policy separately after his selected retirement date. 
I dont think that was a reasonable assumption, when he was specifically told both parts of 
his pension had to be taken together. The referral to a financial adviser was for Mr A to seek 
advice about whether to take the annuity during the deadline extension. He hadnt agreed to 
buy the annuity during the call and, if he decided not to take the GAR, he would have 
needed advice on that.
Mr A claims the lack of response from Scottish Widows to a letter he sent in January 2017 
meant he didnt have enough information about his pension to make an informed decision 
about his retirement. He asked whether he could continue his waiver of contribution cover if 
he was to defer his pension beyond his selected retirement date. He also asked about the 
significance of the dates 21 June and 28 July 2019. Scottish Widows has provided 
information indicating it did reply at that time. And Scottish Widows told Mr A about his 
retirement date on numerous occasions during 2019. Mr A was aware of the significance of 
his retirement date  thats why he made the call on 25 July 2019 and triggered the 90-day 
extension for taking his GAR benefit. 
Mr A didnt follow up on his 2017 query until a few weeks before his retirement date and 
never explored the possibility of transferring away from Scottish Widows before then. I cant 
see any evidence Scottish Widows told Mr A before his selected retirement date he couldnt 
partially transfer his pension to another provider. Mr A was given the information he needed 
in the lead up to his selected retirement date. And he was ultimately able to benefit from the 
GAR after taking advantage of the 90-day grace period. If Mr A had contacted Scottish Widows earlier than July 2019 and enquired about splitting 
his pension or transferring the unit-linked part to another provider, and Scottish Widows had 
failed to give him enough information about that, I might conclude there was a failing. But 
that isnt what happened; he only contacted Scottish Widows a few days before his selected 
retirement date and didnt ask about transferring the unit-linked part of his pension. So I dont 
think Scottish Widows was at fault or caused any loss in relation to this.
Life cover
The life insurance attached to Mr As pension was written to expire at his 60th birthday and 
this is confirmed in the original documents given to Mr A at the point of sale of the pension. 
Mr A bought these products through a financial adviser. So it would have been for the 
adviser to explain how the products worked and the benefits they provided.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr A on 23 May 2019 informing him the life cover on his pension 
would end on 27 July, the day before his 60th birthday. However, in the call on 25 July the 
adviser led him to believe his life cover was still in force and would continue, providing he 
didnt cash in the whole plan or transfer it away. It wasnt until 17 September that Scottish 
Widows clarified this.
This was frustrating for Mr A. And it would be difficult for him to find a similar policy, but he 
was never entitled to life cover beyond his 60th birthday. The fact he was given incorrect 
information didnt change that. So it wouldnt be fair to direct Scottish Widows to compensate 
Mr A for a loss of life cover that he wasnt entitled to.
Communication and customer service
Following the phone call on 25 July 2019, Mr A was referred to a Scottish Widows financial 
adviser to help him make a decision about his pension. I dont have any evidence from 
Scottish Widows about what was discussed, so Ive had to rely on the email submitted by 
Mr A dated 8 August 2019 to determine this.
The Scottish Widows adviser emailed Mr A with information about his options. The adviser 
said Mr A would need to transfer the unit-linked part of his policy before he took the GAR, in 
order to take advantage of the GAR. While this isnt incorrect, that option was no longer 
available to him. But the email led him to believe it was.
Clearly, Mr A should have been given accurate information. But where incorrect information 
is provided, that doesnt necessarily mean I would ask Scottish Widows to honour it. The 
option to transfer part of his pension was not available to Mr A after his selected retirement 
date. So although this information wasnt accurate, Mr A hasnt lost out on this option as a 
result of this. When something goes wrong, I would aim to put the consumer in the position 
they would have been in, if the error hadnt occurred. In this instance, if the error hadnt 
happened, Mr A would have been told it was too late to transfer part of his pension. So hes 
in the position he would have been in in any event.
After receiving this email from the Scottish Widows adviser, Mr A contacted Scottish Widows 
for further information on 13, 18 and 23 August 2019 without reply. He made a complaint on 
2 September 2019, as he was worried about the deadline for buying an annuity. Scottish 
Widows issued a response to his letter of 13 August 2019, but this was sent to his former 
address in error. It then issued quotes to Mr As correct address on 27 August, 2 September 
and 4 September 2019 which gave Mr A information but didnt answer all of his questions.After speaking to an independent financial adviser, Mr A requested quotes from Scottish 
Widows for buying an annuity with the part of his pension which attracted a GAR only. 
Scottish Widows replied the next day explaining to Mr A his pension could not be split and, if 
he wished to take advantage of the GAR, he would need to take his whole pension as an 
annuity. Mr A requested confirmation of this. He also asked Scottish Widows to reconsider 
the position but it refused. Scottish Widows answered Mr As questions on 13 September 
2019, acknowledged the incorrect information given previously, explained how the policy 
worked and said it couldnt give any more concessions.
There was further correspondence up to 8 October 2019 when Mr A received answers to all 
the questions hed asked. Scottish Widows also made clear it wouldnt give any further 
extension to the 90-day grace period, so the process of taking his GAR would need to be 
started by 25 October. 
Mr A requested updated quotes on 9 October 2019 and Scottish Widows explained the 
following day that the quotes he had were backdated to 28 July and wouldnt change. He 
then arranged a retirement call which took place on 16 October. Scottish Widows agreed to 
issue annuity paperwork and comparative quotations, but these were never issued. 
The retirement call happened only nine days before Mr A was required to submit his annuity 
paperwork. I appreciate this was a very stressful time for him. Mr A chased the paperwork on 
several occasions but found it difficult to get a reply from Scottish Widows. He did speak to 
Scottish Widows on 23 October 2019, and was sent an electronic copy of the papers, which 
he completed and returned before the deadline. The paperwork sent to Mr A on 29 October 
2019 shows the annuity was bought on the terms requested by Mr A, in line with the pension 
contract, and he didnt lose the GAR.
Mr A hadnt yet received comparison quotes and had to follow up on several occasions. 
Scottish Widows issued an annuity quote on 4 November 2019 as part of a complaint 
response. This document notes the Scottish Widows quote is the highest available and no 
comparison quotes were provided as there was no higher option on the market. 
Mr A was given some misleading information. But from the evidence Ive seen, between 10 
September and 16 October 2019 he received accurate answers to all his queries. The 
Scottish Widows adviser clarified Mr As options for him and corrected the incorrect 
information hed been given earlier. Scottish Widows made clear to Mr A what he could and 
couldnt do with his pension and explained why it wouldnt provide any further concessions.
Having said that, Scottish Widows failed to send the annuity application documents to Mr A 
after his retirement call on 16 October 2019. Mr As decision making process had already 
been slowed down by misleading information which meant he didnt have all the necessary 
facts until October 2019. The deadline was fast approaching to take advantage of the GAR 
and the delays was distressing for him.
Mr A has also said Scottish Widows should pay for the financial advice he obtained, as he 
was told he had to obtain advice in order to take his benefits. He says he wouldnt have paid 
for advice if it wasnt needed. During the call on 25 July 2019, Mr A was advised he needed 
to demonstrate he had taken financial advice if he was not taking the GAR. 
The adviser did provide Mr A with information that led him to believe he would need financial 
advice in order to proceed at all. But towards the end of the call, the adviser told Mr A he 
would provide all the information he needed about the advice requirements in an email. The 
email sent by the adviser after the call said, you must take financial advice before we can 
action your request, if you are choosing an option other than taking a guaranteed income. It 
is a regulatory requirement due to the valuable GAR benefit, so this email is correct. And nothing in the email suggested Mr A had to get advice if he wished to go ahead and buy a 
guaranteed income.
Some of the information given to Mr A in the phone call wasnt correct. So I can see how he 
might have been confused about whether he needed to obtain advice to proceed. But the 
follow up email clarified matters and explained the circumstances in which he would need to 
take financial advice. So while there was some poor service here, it was corrected by the 
email. If Mr A chose to take financial advice after that, I dont think Scottish Widows should 
have to reimburse him for this cost.
Summary
For the reasons set out above I dont think Mr A has suffered a financial loss as a result of 
what happened. 
I do agree there was poor service during the period following July 2019. The lack of clarity 
led to him having to send emails seeking clarification and there were some delays. After the 
retirement call on 16 October 2019, Scottish Widows then failed to send the annuity 
application documents which meant Mr A had to chase to obtain duplicate copies just two 
days before the deadline to take his GAR. He would have been upset by this and concerned 
that he might miss the deadline as a result of Scottish Widows poor service. 
In these circumstances I think it is fair to increase the compensation to £500. So a further 
payment of £250 is needed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and direct Scottish Widows Limited to make a further payment 
of £250, to bring the total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A 
to £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman