DRN-2587857
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined a claim for 
damage caused by subsidence under their buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to AXA in this decision includes its appointed agents. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr S and Ms S discovered some structural issues and cracks to their conservatory 
and a few months later noticed some movement. They contacted AXA to make a claim.
AXA carried out a site inspection and noted that the conservatory had been built on clay soil, 
and that tree roots had been identified, coming from nearby vegetation on Mr S and Ms Ss 
property. AXA pointed out that tree roots can induce volumetric change in clay soils, and that 
because of this, the conservatorys foundations shouldve been at least 1000mm in depth. 
AXAs reports showed that the foundations were only 250mm in depth and extended to 
400mm below the ground. So the claim was declined on the basis that the damage was 
caused by clay shrinkage subsidence, due to defective design. And the policy didnt cover 
faulty workmanship or defective design.
Mr S and Ms S werent happy with AXAs response, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the issues and said AXA hadnt been able to show that 
the relevant building standards hadnt been met, so recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld. 
AXA disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue I need to determine is whether it was fair for AXA to rely on the exclusion in its 
policy which says: Loss or damage arising from faulty workmanship, defective design or use 
of defective materials will not be covered.
Its for AXA to show that the exclusion applies in this case. And that means it must show that 
the relevant building standards werent met when the conservatory was first built and that the 
failure to meet these standards is the reason the damage occurred. AXA has cited NHBC 
guidelines. But the conservatory wasnt required to comply with NHBC standards when it 
was built, so these arent the relevant guidelines to use in the circumstances.
AXA has then cited building regulations from 1986, which say a minimum foundation depth 
of 900mm was required. Neither party in this case has been able to confirm the exact year of 
construction, but we know the conservatory was built before Mr S and Ms S moved into the 
property in 2007, and that it was in place before the previous owners moved into the 
property in 1997. 
Conservatories are exempt from building regulations, and in any event, AXA hasnt been 
able to show that the building regulations its cited were the relevant standards at the time 
the conservatory was built. Later versions of building regulations have come out since then. 
Despite this, Ive considered what the regulations say about good building practice, based on 
the fact that Mr S and Ms S have confirmed that the conservatory was built prior to 1997. 
However, even by taking the building regulations from 1986 into account, Im still not 
persuaded that AXA has been able to show that a failure to meet these requirements was 
the reason the subsidence occurred.
I say this because, the site investigation report shows the subsidence was caused by clay 
shrinkage due to nearby vegetation, and that tree roots extended down to 1500mm below 
ground. And while we know the foundations were only 250mm deep and went 400mm below 
ground, the tree roots extended beneath the 900mm depth recommended by the guidelines. 
This suggests there wouldve been movement and therefore subsidence damage even if the 
guidelines had been met. So Im not satisfied that AXA has been able to demonstrate that 
the defect  failure to meet the building standards recommended foundation depth  was 
the cause of the problem.
I also think its relevant that the evidence shows the conservatory stood for at least 21 years 
before any damage occurred  and may have stood for much longer than this. If inadequate 
foundations were the reason the subsidence happened, as AXA suggests, then I wouldve 
expected there to be some indication of movement or damage much sooner than 2019 when 
the claim was made.
AXA has provided, in response to our investigators opinion, two previous ombudsmans 
decisions which it says contradict the investigators view of this complaint. Ive read these, 
but they dont change my decision on this complaint. I still consider it unfair for AXA to rely 
on the defective design exclusion in this case, for the reasons Ive explained above.   
Putting things right
AXA must deal with Mr S and Ms Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
their policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman