DRN-3206803
The complaint
Miss R complains that N26 Bank GmbH recorded information about her with fraud 
prevention agencies. She says this is unfair and would like this information removed.
What happened
Miss R opened an account with N26 in February 2020. 
Between 26 February 2020 and 4 March 2020 three payments totalling £950 were paid into 
Miss Rs account. The money was transferred quickly out of the account soon after theyd 
been received to other accounts. 
N26 received notifications from the sending banks that the three payments paid into Miss Rs 
account were the result of an investment scam orchestrated on social media. The scam 
involved victims being told about an investment opportunity where after sending funds they 
would receive a large return. After agreeing to the investments, the victims were asked to 
send funds to Miss Rs N26 account but received no contact once theyd sent the payments.
N26 blocked Miss Rs account on 4 March 2020. And after reviewing what happened took 
the decision to close Miss Rs account. They also recorded a marker with the national fraud 
database, CIFAS.
Miss R says she wasnt aware the money paid into her account was fraudulent. Shes said 
that she never made any of the transactions out of her account and that shed allowed a 
trusted friend, I will refer to as K, to use her account for trading. Miss R says she knew K 
from school and during a night out he told her she should get into trading and gave her his 
contact details.
Miss R says that following her initial conversation, she and K spoke over the phone and via a 
social media platform and he convinced her to join a trading platform. Miss R says K told her 
he needed a special account to trade and that hed manage everything. And that shed 
receive a share from the trading. So, she opened the N26 account and gave K all her online 
banking details, log in information, and access to her email account. And that she was told 
by K not to log into the account. Miss K also forwarded any codes N26 sent to her mobile 
phone onto K to facilitate the transaction on her account. So, Miss R says K had full access 
and control over the account.
Miss R says she had no idea her account was being used to receive and disperse fraudulent 
funds and only became aware N26 had recorded a CIFAS marker against her name in 
June 2020 when accounts she had with other banks were closed. And when she tried to find 
out why this had happened, she found out the marker had caused the closures. 
Miss R complained to N26. She said she wasnt able to open another bank account due to 
the marker which made it very difficult for her to receive her wages, student loan and pay her 
bills including her rent. Miss R said shed been nave and believed shed been the victim of 
fraud. N26 said it hadnt done anything wrong. And that in line with banking regulations they 
had an obligation to report incidents like this to CIFAS. N26 also said Miss R hadnt raised a 
fraud claim with on any occasions shed been speaking to them via its in app chat facility. 
Unhappy that the CIFAS marker would remain Miss R referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at Miss Rs complaint and asked her some more questions 
about what had happened in particular whether Miss R had any evidence to support her 
explanation. Miss R sent the investigator a screen shot of a chat between her and K, which 
shows K telling her not to log into the N26 account. But she didnt have anything to show any 
of the initial conversations about the trading opportunity or any subsequent communications 
after shed discovered what had happened. Miss R said she hadnt reported anything to the 
police, and she had tried to contact K, but he had blocked her from contacting him. 
The investigator explained that to record a marker with CIFAS N26 would have to have 
reasonable rounds to believe Miss R was involved in fraud or financial crime. She said that 
the bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. And shed considered Miss Rs 
explanation of what shed said had happened, but she didnt think her explanation was 
plausible. So, she said N26 had acted fairly when it recorded the CIFAS marker.
Miss R disagreed. She says shes a victim too and N26 should remove the marker. She 
explained that she hadnt made any of the transactions on the account  it was K. And she 
hadnt contacted N26 at all  it was all K.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator outlined in detail the level of evidence required for N26 to record a CIFAS 
marker against Miss R  so I wont repeat it in detail here. But briefly N26 need to be able to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted. And that Miss R was complicit in this fraud or financial crime.
What this means in practice is that N26 must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have 
entered Miss Rs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to decide whether N26 had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof and 
load a marker against Miss R. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied they have, and 
I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from N26 that other banks notified them that the three payments 
paid into Miss Rs account on 26, 28 February 2020 and 4 March 2020 were 
fraudulent. And that Miss Rs account, was used to pass them on  the money was 
transferred out to third party accounts soon after being received.
Miss R says she was nave and was duped by K into allowing him to use her N26 
account. She says she knows nothing about the fraudulent funds and was unwitting. 
And it wasnt her who moved the fraudulent funds out of her account or spoke to N26 
via its in app chat. But this isnt supported by evidence provided by N26.
On 3 March 2020, screen shots of N26 in app chats shows that someone purporting 
to be Miss R contacted N26 to block the account and card. Its not clear to me why this was request was made, but I think its unlikely that K, would seek to try and block 
an account he was using for fraudulent purposes as he wouldnt be able to gain 
access to any funds paid into the account. 
Miss R has said she wasnt accessing her account  she says K had taken it over. 
But this is contradicted by evidence provided by N26. I say this because on 4 March 
2020, the day the fraudulent payment of £500 was paid into Miss Rs account an in 
app chat took place between someone purporting to be Miss R and N26. 
At 4.20pm Miss R told N26 that she was expecting a payment and questioned why it 
hadnt landed in her account. During this chat Miss R said she couldnt transfer 
money out of her account or withdraw any funds. N26 asked Miss R to verify herself 
by providing details of the document used to set up the account. Miss R provided her 
driving licence number and N26 then told her the account was under review. 
Miss R hasnt provided any explanation for how, if as shes suggested this was K 
impersonating her, that he wouldve been aware Miss R had used her driving licence 
to open her account. And she hasnt said she provided K or anyone else with her 
driving licence number. I think its unlikely that K or an unknown third party would be 
able to correctly guess these details. So, I think its likely that it was Miss R speaking 
to N26 on 4 March 2020 about the difficulties she was having with operating her 
account.
It follows then that I think its likely she was checking her account, was aware of the 
account activity, and that there was money in the account which she was trying to 
move on. And that theyd been earlier payments into and out of the account which 
wouldve been displayed when looking at the account activity. At this point three 
fraudulent payments had credited her account. All of which were referenced family 
business and made no reference to trading at all.
Miss R hasnt provided any detailed evidence of the arrangement regarding trading 
that she says shed agreed with K  such as how much she would gain, how long the 
arrangement was to be in place, and how the trades were to be funded. I find it odd 
too that Miss R was expecting to profit from an arrangement she hadnt made any 
contribution towards and didnt question whose money was going to be used. 
She also hasnt explained why she needed to be involved at all or why the money 
needed to come through her bank account. And that when it did, she would pass it on 
 as she attempted to do on 4 March 2020.
Miss R says she didnt know the money paid into her account was fraudulent. So, Ive 
considered whether Miss R knew or ought to have known these funds werent 
legitimate. And whether she could have protected herself from being involved. 
Miss R doesnt have any evidence, such as messages on the social media platform 
that she exchanged with K about what the arrangement she agreed to was. Ive 
looked at the screenshots she has supplied, and I dont find they show she wasnt 
complicit and an unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds. Based on the information 
she has provided, she didnt really know K very well, only knew him to say, hi to and 
hasnt provided any evidence of her attempting to contact him once she realised what 
had happened with her account.  So, she hasnt been able to explain, why K would 
arrange for £950 to be paid into her account and passed on. 
If Miss R hadnt consented to the transactions and had no knowledge of the 
fraudulent activity on her account, I think its reasonable to expect her to alert N26 
and put her explanation forward at the time. But she didnt do so. It appears Miss R 
only contacted N26 once she discovered the CIFAS marker.
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Miss Rs version of events. 
Im satisfied that Miss R didnt take reasonable steps to establish that this money was 
legitimate. She allowed her bank account to be used to receive and pass on fraudulently 
obtained money with a view to her making money from this. And I find she ought reasonably to have known that this wasnt legitimate, and she hasnt been able to provide sufficient 
evidence of why she thought it was. 
For the reasons, Ive explained, Im satisfied that N26 had grounds to believe that Miss R 
was involved in the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had. 
So, I think it was fair for N26 to register the CIFAS marker and whilst I appreciate what 
Miss R says about the impact that the marker is now having on her, I wont be asking them 
to remove it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman