DRN-4481634
The complaint
Mr C complains that AWP P&C SA declined his claim against his travel insurance policy. 
Reference to AWP includes its agents.     
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr C has travel insurance as a benefit of a current account. He 
booked a trip with departure and return dates of 17 December 2022 and                        
20 December 2022 respectively.  
On 20 December 2022, the airline cancelled Mr Cs return flight because of adverse 
weather conditions. It rearranged his flight for 24 December 2022 and offered him hotel 
accommodation near the airport. Mr C couldnt travel to the hotel accommodation offered 
by the airline because of the adverse weather conditions. 
Mr C contacted AWP to check his cover. Ill refer to that telephone call in more detail 
below. On 29 December 2022, Mr C made a claim against his policy in relation to his 
expenditure on food and drink and car hire. In May 2023, AWP declined the claim. It said 
that it doesnt cover the cost of food and drink under any circumstances and only 
covered the cost of travel to and from the airport for a maximum of two days after the 
original departure time. Mr C didnt think that was fair and pursued his complaint. 
Mr C says that AWP told him that he could claim for food and drink and the cost of car 
hire but then declined his claim. He also complains that AWP lost his claim and took 
many months to deal with it. Mr C wants AWP to honour his claim, as it said it would. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that she could 
appreciate why Mr C felt that his policy covered his circumstances following his call with 
AWP. But she didnt think that any incorrect information AWP gave Mr C caused him 
loss. That was because she didnt think that Mr C did anything differently following his 
conversations with AWP. The investigator said that Mr Cs flight was rescheduled four 
days later than the planned departure flight, so hed have incurred the additional costs in 
any event. The investigator said that AWP acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms in declining the claim. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He thinks that a claim for food and drink can be 
covered in these circumstances. Mr C said that the policy wording says that he can claim 
for food and drink up to a certain amount each day. He considers that hes being 
punished for AWPs mistake. 
The investigator considered what Mr C said but didnt change her view. She said that 
insurance wont cover all eventualities and that theres cover for food in a claim for 
emergency medical and associated expenses, which isnt relevant here. The investigator 
said that Mr C wasnt worse off financially, as he had to buy food and drink in any event. 
Mr C said that if AWP had given him correct information, he would have spent less in 
that he wouldnt have spent money on eating out and would have eaten in the 
accommodation instead. Also, he would have returned the hire car at the earliest 
opportunity instead of keeping it until his rescheduled return flight. Mr C disputes that the 
policy doesnt cover food and drink. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 14 November 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
The terms and conditions
The travel disruption section of the policy contains the following: 
Section 3  Travel disruption
[]
What is covered:
Travel delay
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have 
checked-in online.
Has AWP acted fairly and reasonably
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and Ill explain why:    
What happened here isnt covered by the policy as Mr C wasnt delayed at the point 
of departure and hadnt travelled to the airport and checked-in. So, I dont think that 
AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim under the terms of the 
policy. But thats not the end of the matter as AWP misled Mr C about the extent of 
his cover, so Ive gone on to consider whats fair and reasonable in this case.  
Ive listened to the phone call Mr C made to AWP. He spoke with two people. AWP 
told Mr C that he was covered for travel delay and travel disruption. The first person 
Mr C spoke with told him that he could claim up to £190 and additional 
accommodation costs under the travel disruption provisions of his policy. Mr C was 
transferred to the claims department. The person he spoke with read over parts of 
the policy and told Mr C that he could claim up to £200 for additional car hire and for 
accommodation expenses of a similar standard to his pre-booked accommodation. 
The information AWP gave to Mr C wasnt correct as what happened here wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true. We look at the effect of the incorrect information on the individual.  
Mr C says that if hed been made aware of the true position he would have spent less 
on food and drink and returned the hire car at the earliest opportunity instead of 
keeping it until his rescheduled return flight. Food and drink wasnt mentioned in the phone call. I dont think that AWP is 
responsible for Mr Cs belief that AWP would reimburse him for his expenditure on 
food and drink. AWP told him that he could claim £30 for the first 12 hours, then £20 
for each 12 hour delay. Thats a benefit under the policy in certain circumstances and 
not reimbursement for food and drink. In any event, Ive looked at the receipts Mr C 
provided to AWP. Only Mr C is insured under the policy and some of the purchases 
appear to be for two people. Having said that, the expenditure on food and drink was 
modest. But I dont think that AWP is responsible for any of Mr Cs expenditure on 
food and drink. 
I accept that if AWP had told Mr C that the policy didnt cover what happened here, 
he would have returned the hire car at the earliest opportunity instead of keeping it 
until his rescheduled return flight. At this distance, its difficult to ascertain exactly 
when that would have been, given the unusual weather conditions. Mr C has 
provided AWP with an invoice for four days car rental amounting to approximately 
£340. I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to reimburse two days car rental - £170. 
It should also pay interest on that amount.
 
I also think that the AWPs error in this case caused Mr C disappointment when he 
discovered the true position. Based on what AWP said in the phone call, Mr C 
thought that his claim would be covered and was no doubt disappointed to discover 
that it wasnt. 
Mr C has also complained about AWPs delay in its handling of his claim. Based on 
what Ive seen, Mr C made a claim on 29 December 2022. AWPs notes show that on 
6 February 2023 it spoke with Mr C and told him that it needed a claim form. In      
April  2023, AWP told Mr C that it was waiting for his documents to be reviewed. It 
wasnt until 19 May 2023, when Mr C called again to check the progress of his claim, 
that AWP declined the claim. 
Its not clear to me exactly when AWP had all the information it needed to deal with 
the claim, but it seems that this claim took much longer than wed usually expect. I 
think that caused Mr C distress and inconvenience and it put him to the trouble of 
chasing AWP for the outcome of his claim.
Considering everything, I think that AWPs errors caused Mr C distress and 
inconvenience in terms of loss of expectation when he discovered the true position 
and in its handling of his claim. I think that AWP should pay Mr C compensation of    
£200 in relation to his distress and inconvenience. 
 
Putting things right
I intend to direct AWP to pay Mr C:
reimbursement of £170 in relation to car hire and interest on this amount at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date of his claim to the date it makes the 
payment and, 
compensation of £200 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.Responses to my provisional decision
AWP said that it had no additional comments. Mr C confirmed that hed received the 
provisional decision and made no substantive comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr C nor AWP has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that AWP gave Mr C incorrect information which 
caused him loss in terms of additional car hire costs. He also suffered distress and 
inconvenience in discovering the true position and as a result of AWPs delay in its handling 
of his claim. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should pay Mr C:
reimbursement of £170 in relation to car hire and interest on this amount at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date of his claim to the date it makes the 
payment and, 
compensation of £200 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman