DRN-1591301
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr T took out the PPI in March 1996. The sale happened in a meeting in branch at the same 
time as he was arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of the PPI, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. So in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr T doesnt have any clear recollection of the sale, which is again not surprising given the 
time that has elapsed. However, he is adamant that he wouldnt have voluntarily agreed to 
have the PPI, so he therefore believes that he was either told he had to have it (in which 
case he would have known that it had been added to his mortgage account), or that it was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was usually presented as 
optional. I havent seen any evidence that the adviser deviated from the usual process on 
this occasion. Ive thought about what Mr S has said but, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr T decided to buy the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no 
longer remembers doing so.
BoS has said that it advised Mr T to buy the policy. That means that, in recommending it to 
him, it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances 
at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr T would have received some sick pay, but the policy would have paid out in addition to 
this and potentially for longer than Mr T would have received full pay for. Mr T has said that 
he had some savings, but having the policy would have meant that he could have retained 
these or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Mr T has said that family would have helped. But presumably asking other people to pay your 
mortgage for you would be a last resort. And other people cant always be relied upon as 
their circumstances can change.
Mr T says he never took out PPI on anything. But a mortgage is very different product to 
something like a credit card or loan. It is a significant financial commitment and the 
consequences of defaulting on a mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt be surprising 
if Mr T, as a first time buyer, had an interest in protecting his repayments.
Mr T has said that he lived within his means, maintained healthy savings and had always 
been employed, so didnt need the policy. But just because Mr T never had to claim on the 
policy doesnt make it unsuitable. It is the nature of insurance to provide cover for 
unexpected events and changes of circumstance. And as I have already mentioned, having 
the PPI would have meant Mr T could have maintained at least some of his savings if he had 
been unable to work for some reason.
I think that Mr T would have known something about the policy  - that it would have covered 
his mortgage repayments if he were unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think he would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of those 
things (our adjudicator has explained to Mr T why he was eligible for the cover even though 
he had only been in his current job for three months). As I consider that Mr T had an interest 
in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him 
to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong. 
So there is nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman