DRN-4367564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with the standard of repairs carried out to their car port by 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) under their home insurance policy. Mr and 
Mrs K had representation for the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr 
and Mrs K.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had their car port repaired by RSAs contractors under an earlier claim. A few 
years later, following some inclement weather the car port was damaged again.
RSA sent a surveyor to review and validate the damage. He concluded the damage was 
caused because of a subsequent storm. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. Theyd had the car port 
inspected by their own specialist whod concluded the damage was caused because the 
original repairs werent completed to a satisfactory standard.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy the damage was treated as a second claim and a further 
excess charged. They feel this should be waived as the earlier work wasnt up to standard.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded by the evidence 
that the original repairs werent up to standard, and he thought it was more likely the storm 
caused the damage this time around. So, he thought RSA had been fair to treat the damage 
as a second claim and charge an excess. Mr and Mrs K disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided contradictory expert reports on the cause of the recent damage 
to the car port. Both written testimonies provide plausible reasoning to what may have 
happened. However, I dont find the evidence provided by either party more persuasive than 
the other.
Therefore, Ive considered more holistically, whats happened. The original repairs were 
carried out a few years ago. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs K had 
reason to think they were unhappy with these repairs at the time or in the intervening period 
up until the storm occurred.
Ive considered the conditions of the storm which RSA said caused the damage. Wind gusts 
of over 100 mph were recorded on the date of the reported incident. Winds of this strength 
can cause significant structural damage to buildings.
So, as there was no evidence Mr and Mrs K had issue with the initial car port repairs until the 
storm, Im not persuaded that the repairs were defective. I think its more likely the strong 
winds caused the damage to the car port this time around.
Therefore, I think RSA have been reasonable in treating the new damage as a separate 
claim. I think RSA has been fair in charging a second excess before settling the claim, as 
this is consistent with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman