DRN-2376517
The complaint
Mr H and Miss T are unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with their 
application to port Mr Hs mortgage and add Miss T. Theyre unhappy that NatWest turned 
the application down so far along in the process, and that Mr H had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) on his existing NatWest mortgage.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with NatWest, and he wanted to move to a new property and add 
Miss T to the mortgage. As his existing mortgage product had an ERC he wanted to port his 
mortgage product across so he wouldnt incur the charge.
NatWest rejected the mortgage application following an internal audit, and so Mr H 
redeemed his mortgage (incurring an ERC) when he moved house and took his new 
mortgage with a new lender. NatWest refunded the homebuyer survey fee, even though the 
survey had been undertaken, and paid £100 compensation for some elements of poor 
customer service during the application process.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. Mr H and Miss T disagreed and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I trust Mr H and Miss T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what information should be 
obtained.
I note that Mr H and Miss T have expressed a desire for a phone call with me to discuss the 
complaint. This would only be necessary if I considered it would be helpful to hear what the 
parties have to say orally  if the written submissions were at all unclear. So this wouldnt 
provide either of the parties to a complaint with the opportunity to ask questions, nor would it 
be a dialogue with me. This would be for my benefit, if there was anything at all in the 
paperwork or call recordings which I thought wasnt clear.
Having reviewed the case file, I consider that all of the material issues are clearly and 
comprehensively covered. So Im satisfied that I can fairly decide the case without a 
conversation with Mr H and Miss T.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H and Miss T feel NatWest is being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their commercial 
judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to ensure such 
judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks.
Mr H seems to be under the mistaken belief that the reason for the decline was that NatWest 
had confused the credit history of Miss T with that of a third party with the same name and 
date of birth. But thats not the case. Mr H and Miss Ts application was selected for an audit, 
and as part of that a deeper dive was undertaken. That meant there were the normal 
underwriting checks, and also additional audit checks. Thats a normal part of a lenders 
process whereby some applications are selected for an audit to ensure its processes stay 
robust and fair.
The reason the application was declined is commercially sensitive so were unable to 
disclose it to Mr H and Miss T, but Ive seen the reasons and the information that was 
considered and Im satisfied NatWest made this decision fairly, and not based on information 
about an unconnected third party.
NatWest doesnt have to give any further information to Mr H and Miss T about why it 
couldnt proceed with the application as thats commercially sensitive, and so it would be 
inappropriate for me to pass that information to Mr H and Miss T. But, as I said, Ive 
reviewed the information and Im satisfied that NatWest reached its decision fairly.
At the time the application was turned down NatWest hadnt issued a formal mortgage offer, 
so it hadnt made a commitment to lend the money to Mr H and Miss T. That means any 
commitment Mr H and Miss T made to proceed with the sale and/or purchase was at their 
own risk. I cant hold NatWest liable for the fact Mr H redeemed his mortgage, as if hed not 
exchanged contracts (which he shouldnt have done without a formal mortgage offer in 
place) then he could have pulled out of the process and not redeemed his mortgage. Any 
decision to exchange contracts and go ahead with the purchase and sale, thus incurring the 
ERC, wasnt down to NatWest.
The ERC was set out in Mr Hs mortgage offer dated 20 June 2016, and he incurred that 
charge when he chose to end the contract early. As the ERC was correctly levied there are 
no reasonable grounds for me to order NatWest to refund it.
Theres no doubt theres been some service failings with issues with the valuation being 
instructed and with Miss Ts payslips. It also seems NatWest didnt make Miss T aware that 
it needed confirmation from her about a previous address. Thats not been disputed. So all I 
need to consider here is what level of compensation is fair for those issues.
As NatWest didnt do anything wrong in not agreeing to take Mr H and Miss Ts application 
forward, I dont award any compensation for the time and trouble Mr H and Miss T were put 
to in collecting the information NatWest needed to reach that decision, or for the time and 
trouble they were put to by complaining about this. If a person wants to apply for a mortgage 
they need to provide the information required by the lender, thats normal and not something 
for which compensation is due for if the application cant be progressed.
Im aware NatWest has refunded the £586 homebuyer survey fee, and thats not something 
it needed to do. The survey was carried out and theres always a risk a mortgage application 
will be turned down after a survey has been undertaken. If this complaint had come to me 
without that refund having been made, then its not something I would have ordered NatWest 
to do. So, for that reason I need to take that £586 sum into account (along with the £100 compensation also paid) when considering if NatWest has paid enough compensation for 
the service failings. And having done so Im satisfied NatWest has already paid enough 
compensation, and so I dont order it to do  or pay  anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied NatWests payments totalling 
£686 as set out in its final response letter are fair in all the circumstances. My final decision 
concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means well not be engaging 
in any further consideration or discussion on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman