DRN-3277139
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to remove a security restriction from 
his account unless he attends a branch.
What happened
Mr J says he lives in Australia but has a Barclays account which has been open for a 
number of years. He says he asked Barclays for a new debit card and for online access but 
was told he needed to attend a United Kingdom (UK) branch. Mr J says that is impossible 
and impractical. He says he has offered a number of ways in which his identity can be 
confirmed and would like access to the account.
Barclays says it followed regulatory obligations about knowing its customers and says whilst 
it appreciates the practical difficulties, it requires Mr J to attend a branch in the UK. It says it 
will not be able to remove the account marker until that takes place and says it provides 
accounts for UK residents.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays was obliged to follow its regulatory obligations and it was up to it to decide 
how it met those obligations.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says Barclays failed to communicate with him about the 
marker and what he needed to do to avoid it in the first place. He says this problem could 
have been avoided if Barclays explained what he needed to do to, such as use his account a 
certain amount of times. Mr J questions how often Barclays needed to verify identity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr J appreciates that Barclays, as all banks and building societies, must follow the 
regulatory rules about, as in this case, knowing a customer. I appreciate that those 
requirements can cause inconvenience and as in this case mean that it is difficult in the short 
term for a security measure to be removed. But that doesnt mean that Barclays has made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by insisting that Mr J follows its requirements by attending a 
branch. And I make clear that we are not Barclays regulator. So, its not our role to tell it how 
it interprets and follows regulatory requirements or what information it provides about such a 
process.
I have looked at Barclays records and can see that Mr J contacted it in 2020 as he had 
received a dormancy letter. I think on balance that suggests this was an account that hadnt 
been used by Mr J in some time. I dont think Mr J has told us what if anything is the account 
balance. But I think it likely again on balance that the account restrictions were placed by 
Barclays due to a lack of account usage. In those circumstances I dont think it unfair that 
Barclays applied the restrictions and think its up to it to decide, when exercising its 
commercial judgement, how it complies with its regulatory requirements. So, it follows that I 
dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by insisting that Mr J attend a UK 
branch.
I appreciate that due to travel restrictions and in any event the distance involved that option 
may not be practical. But for the reasons I have made clear, think that Barclays is entitled to 
make that requirement. And has made clear that it provides accounts for UK residents, so 
such a requirement would not normally cause such inconvenience as here.
I appreciate that Mr J says that Barclays ought to have communicated more appropriately 
with him and told him how to avoid this situation. But again, I think its up to Barclays to 
decide how it communicates with its customers and up to it to decide if it provides customers 
with the level of information Mr J would like to avoid the position he is in. I think it unlikely 
any business would provide such information in any event as that potentially would result in 
the regulatory requirements not being complied with and allow non genuine customers to 
evade this process.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Js position, I cant fairly direct Barclays to issue a new 
debit card in these circumstances. I dont think it clear if there is an account balance, if there 
is no doubt Mr J will consider speaking to Barclays about it and what his options are for 
receiving it. If there is a notional balance, then it difficult to see what real impact Barclays 
actions have had on Mr J. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman