DRN-3896700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of Mr Bs travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold travel insurance through their bank account. The insurance is 
underwritten by Aviva. 
Whilst abroad, Mr B was injured and went to hospital. The hospital advised him that he 
needed surgery on his shoulder, and that Aviva had approved this. Mr B went ahead with the 
surgery.
When Mr B returned to the UK, he found out he hadnt needed the surgery. He had to have 
corrective surgery through the NHS. Mr B complained to Aviva about its decision to approve 
the surgery. 
Aviva said the first time it had been contacted about the matter was after Mr B had 
undergone the surgery abroad. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said there was no evidence 
that Aviva had been contacted about the claim before Mr B had the surgery. He therefore 
concluded that Aviva had not done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr B says the complaint is against his bank, the policy makes it clear that the 
insurance contract is underwritten by Aviva. Therefore, the decision whether to accept a 
claim lay with Aviva, even if the bank acted as its agent.
The policy provides cover for emergency medical treatment, but doesnt cover non-
emergency treatment that Avivas medical team have not agreed to beforehand. 
The policy also explains that in a medical emergency, the insured should contact the 24-hour 
medical emergency line before any medical treatment. Unfortunately, Mr B didnt do so.
Mr B says that Aviva authorised the surgery and made the payment without reviewing the 
case to determine whether the treatment was appropriate for him.
If Aviva had agreed to cover the cost of the surgery, I would have expected it to have done 
so after considering medical reports. This would be to establish that the treatment was 
needed on an emergency basis abroad and therefore covered under the policy terms.
However, Aviva has no record of being contacted by the hospital before Mr B had his 
surgery, or of being provided with medical reports. I havent seen any evidence to support 
that Aviva told the hospital that the cost of the surgery would be covered. The information 
Ive seen shows that the hospital contacted Aviva after Mr B had been discharged. 
I dont know why the hospital advised Mr B that Aviva had authorised the surgery when this 
was not the case. Aviva made no payment to the hospital, and had not given the hospital a 
guarantee of payment.
I recognise that Mr B has been through a very distressing time, but I cant find that Aviva did 
anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman