DRN-3235884
The complaint
Mr L, represented by Mr W, is concerned that Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) increased its charges when his investments were moved to a new platform. He 
also believes he may have been disadvantaged by Fidelity altering the way it collects 
charges, from adjusting the price of individual units to selling units.
What happened
In response to the complaint raised on Mr Ls behalf by Mr W, Fidelity provided some 
explanation regarding the background to the changes and said it was satisfied it had acted 
correctly and that Mr L had not been disadvantaged.
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator looked into Mr Ls concerns.
By way of background he explained that Fidelity had introduced the new charging structure 
in response to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Retail Distribution Review (RDR), an 
initiative that sought to improve transparency in charging for financial services by introducing 
new rules in 2012. The primary change involved the unbundling of the charges to separate 
out adviser and servicing costs from the fund management costs.   
In respect of the platform change, the investigator explained that in 2017 Fidelity had moved 
to a new technology platform to extend its range of products and services. As part of this, it 
introduced a new nominee structure for all investments. Fidelitys own funds had the 
customer named as the owner on the share register. But for funds managed by other 
businesses, the register showed the name of a nominee company that held the shares on 
behalf of the customer. 
As such, customers holding Fidelity funds needed to provide consent for their funds to move 
to the nominee structure. The investigator explained that as Mr L held other funds, he was 
already on a nominee structure, so his consent hadnt been required for the move to the new 
platform. 
The investigator then addressed the main areas of concern for Mr L  the unbundling of fees 
and the platform change and the change to the method of taking fees. 
In respect of unbundling and platform change he said, in brief: 
No new fees had resulted from the unbundling, the process had simply separated 
out existing charges.
The platform change was a separate process, unrelated to the RDR and the 
unbundling of charges. 
The evidence indicated that costs had remained the same overall.
He was satisfied Fidelity had provided sufficient information to Mr L and Mr W about 
all the changes. 
As the way the costs were applied was a result of a change in regulation, he was 
unable to conclude that Fidelitys actions were unfair or required Mr Ls consent. 
The platform change also didnt require consent as there was no substantive change 
to Fidelitys agreement with Mr L as his holdings were already held under the 
nominee structure.
 
The investigator noted that, separate to the RDR unbundling changes, Fidelity had also 
introduced an Investor Fee of £45 per year in 2013, which had become applicable to Mr L in 
2016 because of a pension transfer. The investigator was satisfied that application of this 
new charge was provided for in the terms of the account by way of a variation clause that 
required 30 days notice of such a change to be given. He was satisfied fair notice had been 
provided to Mr L. 
In respect of the change to the method of taking fees, which was Mr Ls particular concern  
with units being sold, as opposed to the unit price being adjusted  the investigator said, in 
brief:
Fidelity had confirmed that, after the changes relating to unbundling, only the fund 
manager charges could be taken by adjusting the unit price. The adviser and 
servicing fees had to be shown explicitly, so were taken from cash on the account or, 
failing that, though units being sold. 
While Fidelity hadnt demonstrated that it was an absolute requirement to take the 
charges in this way, the investigator was satisfied in any event that Mr L had been 
given fair warning of the change and an explanation of the how the charges would be 
taken going forward, so he could have looked for an alternative provider if this wasnt 
as he wanted. 
  
In summary, the investigator was satisfied the charges hadnt been increased in the way 
Mr L was concerned about. He felt the charges were simply separated out rather than being 
one overall figure as before, which was required by changes in regulations.
He said the other changes were made in line with Fidelitys terms and conditions, and with 
fair notice given to Mr L. The platform change didnt involve any new fees and didnt require 
Mr Ls consent as it was simply a technology change to enable Fidelity to offer more 
services. Fidelity had explained the changes clearly  both in advance, and after Mr L raised 
his complaint. 
Mr W, on Mr Ls behalf, didnt accept the investigators opinion. He asked that it be reviewed, 
particularly in respect of the point about whether Mr L had been disadvantaged by Fidelity 
cancelling units to collect fees rather than adjusting the price of units.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I can appreciate that the various changes made by Fidelity over the period in question will 
have caused some confusion and, in turn, concern for Mr L. I can see that this is a matter of 
great importance to him.
But Im satisfied that the changes made by Fidelity in respect of the unbundling of charges 
prompted by the RDR were fair and reasonable and broadly in keeping with standard 
industry practice for implementing the required regulatory changes. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the costs applied to Mr Ls investments increased because of the changes. Its confirmed that the service fee was not increased, and the fund charges typically stayed the 
same.
I appreciate there was the introduction of the Investor Charge, but that was a separate 
matter, which as the investigator noted, was a change Fidelity was permitted to make in 
accordance with its terms, provided account holders were properly notified in advance, 
which Im satisfied Mr L was.  
In respect of Mr Ls particular concern, the change in the way Fidelity took the charges, it 
has said that following the implementation of the RDR changes only the fund manager 
charge could be taken by adjusting the price of the unit. Service fees and ongoing adviser 
fees must be charged explicitly, with transactions showing what is paid. This is what the new 
regulation was intended to ensure was communicated to consumers. Fidelitys confirmed 
that it takes these fees from cash on the account, if available, otherwise units are sold from 
the largest fund holding. So, there is an option that can ensure that units are not sold to pay 
for the charges.
Fidelity has said that its unable to show whether Mr L has actually been disadvantaged by 
units being sold to cover fees, instead of the unit price being adjusted. And, again, I can 
appreciate Mr Ls frustration that the net effects of the change, if any, cant be clearly shown. 
But, as Fidelity has stated, the methodology it uses follows standard industry practice and is 
something that had to be implemented in this way in light of the regulatory changes.
I appreciate Mr L, and Mr W, will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and that Im not directing Fidelity to do anything more in 
response to his complaint. But I dont think theres much more I usefully add to what has 
already been said by Fidelity and the investigator. 
Following a careful consideration of the information supplied by Fidelity to Mr L Im satisfied 
it has acted fairly and reasonably in implementing the changes required by the RDR, the 
move to the new platform, and the introduction of the Investor Charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman