DRN-2411501
The complaint
Miss P complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc has administered her mortgage and 
communicated with her. 
Miss P complains that HSBC:
- cancelled the only channel through which she can make a mortgage application 
during the pandemic as shes unable to interact with her lender over the phone or 
visit a mortgage adviser in a branch. Miss P had a video conference set up with a 
mortgage adviser but this was cancelled by HSBC. 
- Acted unreasonably by not offering her an interest rate on her mortgage of 1.14% in 
recognition of the multiple mistreatment she feels has happened. HSBC declined 
this request as a result Miss P now says shes missed out on all other promotional 
rates; and 
- Has discriminated against, victimised and unfairly treated her.
Miss P wants HSBC to offer her the interest rate of 1.14% over 5 years with no product fee 
or early repayment charge.
What happened
In 2016 Miss P took out a mortgage with HSBC. Miss Ps mortgage was taken out on a five 
fixed rate of 2.39% which expires at the end of April 2021. 
In May 2020 Miss P contacted HSBC to find out about new interest rate products. Miss P 
thought that her mortgage rate was due to expire until March 2021. Even though this was 
some way off, Miss P wanted to explore getting another interest rate product from 1 
September. Miss P had seen some competitive interest rates advertised and she wanted to 
know what it would cost to break her current product and whether an early repayment 
charge would apply in the last year of her product. She also wanted to know how she could 
go about taking out a new product during the pandemic. 
HSBC confirmed that Miss Ps product was due to expire the following year, on 30 April 
2021. It said that if Miss P ended her existing product on 1 September 2020 this would 
involve an early repayment fee of around £450. 
HSBC said Miss P wouldnt be able to arrange a product switch in a branch at that time. It 
explained this was due to coronavirus restrictions in Scotland. Miss P was told the branch 
was only open for reduced hours to help with urgent and essential queries. 
Miss P explained to HSBC that she couldnt use internet banking as she did not have an 
online password. And she wasnt comfortable speaking to someone over the phone due to a 
disability. Miss P asked if she could go to a branch to discuss taking out a new product, and 
said she felt comfortable doing this from June 2020 as she thought restrictions would be 
gradually lifted by then.  
HSBC said that only emergency queries were being handled in a branch  such as people 
not having access to cash. At that time mortgage appointments were only available by 
phone. HSBCs adviser did say in a few weeks they would be offering video calls to give 
advice face to face. The adviser offered to get in touch when these appointments became 
available. Miss P expressed interest in a video call. 
A call was set up on 22 July 2020 but by this time the promotional rate Miss P had wanted 
was no longer available. Miss P says HSBC cancelled the video call on 22 July without her 
agreement. She says she wanted to talk about her mortgage options. Miss P believes this 
was cancelled out of spite by a member of HSBC staff and that this amounts to 
discrimination, victimisation and unfair treatment.  
Miss P was disappointed with many aspects of the service she received from HSBC. She 
was directed to call a helpline on a number of occasions to discuss interest rate products, 
although shed told HSBC she didnt feel able to use the phone. And when she had 
managed to get a video conference set up to discuss new interest rate products this was 
cancelled by HSBC at short notice. Miss P says HSBC werent making reasonable 
adjustments to their usual processes to enable her to get access to interest rate products. 
HSBC has issued a series of final responses to the issues covered by this complaint from 26 
June 2020 to 22 July 2020.
On 14 July 2020 HSBC explained that it had told Miss P how she could take out a new 
product, and that it couldnt change Miss Ps mortgage interest rate by email. HSBC said this 
was because mortgages are a regulated product and there was a correct process to be 
followed. HSBC asked if Miss P could go to a branch to reset her internet banking. This 
would have enabled Miss P to take out a new product online. HSBC explained that it was 
unable to offer mortgage appointments at that time in branch, but as soon as this option was 
confirmed to be available, it would contact Miss P again to arrange this.  
On 21 July 2020 HSBC provided a further response, consolidating various separate 
complaint issues into one final position. HSBC had already paid compensation totalling £150 
for areas where it felt its service or administration of the mortgage had fallen short. But 
HSBC wouldnt increase its previous offer of compensation. It said it wouldnt agree the 
bespoke rate Miss P wanted to settle the matter.
Miss P was unhappy with HSBCs response and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened. In summary, he thought that it was reasonable 
that HSBC wouldnt agree to offer Miss P products that werent available to other customers 
and that if Miss P wanted to take out another product before her fixed rate had expired, then 
it could apply an early repayment charge in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Ps 
mortgage. 
Our investigator looked at Miss Ps concerns about other administrative issues and the way 
it communicated with her. He thought the £150 already paid by HSBC in connection with a 
complaint about her annual statement and a member of staff not replying to her promptly 
was fair and reasonable to settle these parts of her complaint.
Miss P disagreed. She replied to say, in summary that:
- She has the right to change her mortgage any time she wants to and doesnt need to 
wait until the last 90 days;
- The bulk of mistreatment came after the business paid compensation, which was for 
previous administrative failings;
- Our investigator had missed the complaint about discrimination and victimisation 
completely;- Miss P says she wanted a fair chance to discuss her choices in remortgage in 
August/September 2020. Because HSBC wouldnt talk to Miss P about her choices 
she missed the chance to remortgage in September 2020;
- Miss P feels that HSBC is now not talking to her about new rates because of the 
investigators findings.
Miss P asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman to look at the matter again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Miss P has been unwell, and that this complaint has caused her 
distress and worry. This has clearly been a difficult time for Miss P and I dont underestimate 
how much this matter means to her. Im grateful to Miss P for her patience while we have 
investigated the issues shes raised in this complaint. Im also aware that Miss P has 
continued to experience some issues with her mortgage and that HSBC are considering 
other complaints brought by her. In this decision I have only considered the issues brought 
to us under this complaint reference that HSBC replied to in 2020. 
Id like to reassure Miss P that Ive thought carefully about this complaint and Ive looked at 
all the evidence that has been provided before reaching my decision. While I havent 
referred to each issue in my decision, I have considered each issue thats been raised as 
part of my overall determination of this complaint and what I consider is at the heart of the 
matter. 
Miss P complains that HSBC prevented her from having access to interest rate product by 
effectively removing the only way she could take out a new rate. Miss P was exploring taking 
out a new product from May 2020. At that time HSBC was running a reduced service in its 
branches in response to the national coronavirus restrictions in place at that time in 
Scotland.
Im mindful that this complaint happens within exceptional circumstances that would have 
had a considerable effect on both Miss P and HSBC. Im sensitive to the unprecedented 
challenges that the coronavirus pandemic presented to businesses and consumers. And Im 
mindful of the extraordinary environment within which HSBC was trying to maintain its 
operations and customer service. 
HSBC has said it usually offers new interest rate product switches in branch, over the phone 
and by internet banking. Miss P has explained that using phone conversations are difficult 
for her due to her disability. As such I think it right and appropriate that HSBC should offer 
other channels for its customers like Miss P to take out new mortgage products. 
HSBC had a restricted offering in branch during lockdown and as some of its staff (such as 
mortgage advisers) adapted to working from home. While Miss P had said she felt 
comfortable to come into a branch for mortgage advice, or apply for a product switch in June 
2020, I can understand why this may not have been possible for HSBC at that time. Overall, 
I think its reasonable that HSBCs branch offering was limited and Miss P needed to explore 
other options. 
With the branch no longer able to provide this service, and Miss P unable to use the phone, 
that left the channel of online banking. Miss Ps explained that shed had problems with her 
online banking password and as such she couldnt use online banking. However, HSBC had 
told Miss P that she could go to a branch and reset her online password. This would have given Miss P access to new interest rate products online. I think it was reasonable that 
HSBC tried to support Miss P to get access to her online banking again as this would have 
increased her options and ultimately could have enabled her to take out a new product if 
shed wanted to. 
HSBC started to offer video calls to its mortgage customers over the course of this 
complaint. Miss P was told that this service had been created in response to the pandemic 
by her local mortgage adviser, who offered to arrange a call as soon as this service became 
available. 
HSBC arranged a video call for Miss P on 22 July 2020 to discuss her mortgage. I can see 
that an adviser contacted Miss P by email to ask her why she hadnt joined the call as 
arranged and said he was waiting for her on the call. However, Miss P thought the call had 
been cancelled by the complaints handling team. 
Having reviewed all the evidence, it seems the video call on 22 July 2020 hadnt been 
cancelled by HSBC. It seems there was a genuine misunderstanding between the parties 
about this. HSBC had waited for Miss P to join the call and emailed her after a short period 
of time to ask if she would be joining, and that the adviser was waiting. Miss P told them the 
call had been cancelled by another department. This misunderstanding is clearly unfortunate 
and has caused Miss P upset - but I cant see that HSBC told Miss P that it was to be 
cancelled at any point.
Even if the call had gone ahead, Im not sure that would have led to Miss P taking out a new 
product. Ill explain why.
It seems that there is confusion about whether Miss P wanted to discuss taking out a new 
product from its product range, or whether she wanted to negotiate a bespoke interest rate 
deal with HSBC, with preferential terms to recognise previous complaints Miss P has had. 
Miss P said what rate she wanted, but she wanted this over a longer term and for HSBC to 
waive the product fee and any early repayment charge that would be payable. 
Im aware Miss P feels that discussions about a new rate and her proposals to improve the 
terms of a product, were drawn out by HSBC until the competitive product shed seen 
advertised was no longer available. But I think HSBC made it clear to Miss P in its complaint 
responses that it wouldnt be willing to create a bespoke product for her, or to waive the 
product fees that would apply to other customers, or the ERC that would apply to her own 
mortgage, in recognition of any previous service failings. 
Miss P has been upset that shes been refused information about her mortgage options. 
However, HSBCs mortgage adviser did provide a lot of information by email to Miss P to 
help her evaluate her mortgage options. For example, the adviser clarified when Miss Ps 
mortgage product expired, said how much the ERC would be if Miss P broke her existing 
fixed rate on 1 September, and she gave information about the mortgage balance. 
The adviser also looked at two products Miss P had been interested in, confirmed the terms 
of the rates and shared calculations about whether or not it was financially worth Miss P 
breaking her existing product early. This calculation took into account the lower interest rate, 
product fee and the ERC to be paid. 
The adviser shared details with Miss P in early July 2020 about different rates and whether 
this would save Miss P money if she broke her existing fixed rate early. The adviser said in 
an email to Miss P dated 6 July 2020 the rate you mentioned before, the 1.14%, is a 2 year 
fixed rate with a £999 fee. Having had a quick look it is not worth breaking your existing rate 
at all. The adviser had calculated that taking into account a 2 year fee free rate of 1.44% this would take 16 months to become cost effective, when taking into account the ERC payable 
breaking Miss Ps current deal. And the adviser calculated that on the 2 year rate of 1.14% 
with £999 product fee it would take nearly three years to breakeven when taking into account 
the ERC and the product fee. I consider this to have been good service provided by HSBC 
and an example of the business trying to help Miss P despite its usual services being limited 
by external constraints placed upon it.
Miss P has said she felt she was discriminated against, victimised and unfairly treated. Ive 
looked at the emails that were sent between Miss P and HSBC and Ive considered all the 
wider circumstances of this case. Having done so, I havent seen any contact that supports 
Miss Ps complaint that HSBC victimised her or treated her unfairly. 
I can completely understand that Miss P was frustrated that the usual channels of 
communication that she prefers with her mortgage lender were interrupted by coronavirus 
restrictions. And I acknowledge why this was particularly difficult for Miss P as she cant use 
phone calls as an alternative. I am also aware Miss P has had problems with her internet 
banking access. But Im satisfied that HSBC tried to provide alternative options, such as 
Miss P resetting her internet password in a branch, emails from a mortgage adviser about 
her account and options, and setting up video calls as an alternative way to explore 
mortgage options face to face. 
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Miss P but I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman