DRN-1273673
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr B says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr Bs Lloyds credit card account started in 1983. At some time between then and 2000, PPI 
was added to his account that was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, theres almost no information 
available from the time. Mr B doesnt recall how the PPI was sold and Lloyds cant 
confirm how it was sold either. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI until 2000 
across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without his 
knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that hed have been significantly affected by any of the 
likely exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And, although he was entitled to sick 
pay for a time, the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 
months per disability claim. It covered him for unemployment too. So, I think hed 
have found that the PPI provided useful extra protection. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, as I say, I see no reason to think he didnt choose to take it 
out. And it looks as though it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. Nothing in his circumstances leads me to think hed have found the PPI 
unaffordable either. 
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Lloyds 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
If it hasnt already done so, Lloyds has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr B any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference between 
what he owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest if 
Mr B paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman