DRN-3005258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bassant & Co Financial Services mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out for a mortgage in 2005. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L only. 
I sent Bassant & Co and Mr and Mrs L a provisional decision on 22 July 2021, to explain 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr and Mrs Ls PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill 
explain why.
Bassant & Co recommended the policy for Mr L, so it had to check it was right for him. It also 
had to give Mr and Mrs L information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. But I dont think the policy was right for Mr L, and I cant see that Bassant & Co 
gave Mr and Mrs L clear enough information about it.
Mr L was self-employed. And from what Ive seen of the policy, it included conditions which 
made it harder for self-employed people to claim unemployment benefit. It said that in order 
to be considered unemployed as a self-employed person, the following would have to be 
the case:
The business you work for has totally and permanently ceased to trade due to 
circumstances entirely beyond your control, or the control of any co-director or partner in the 
business.
Ceased to trade is defined as: the business has permanently stopped trading, been wound 
up or put into the hands of a registered insolvency practitioner or, if the business is a 
partnership, the partnership has been permanently dissolved.
In my view, this made it significantly harder for Mr L to have claimed for unemployment 
compared to an employed person.
Most businesses have up and down periods. Mr L may well have found himself in a situation 
where he didnt have enough coming in to meet his reasonable costs, or where he had to 
temporarily shut down as he was out of work. In that sort of situation, this PPI policy wouldnt 
have covered him, and he couldve ended up in serious trouble with his mortgage  despite 
paying for a policy that was supposed to protect him from that very thing. And it would be 
onerous to make him permanently stop trading and close all of his accounts just so he could 
claim. These terms meant that if Mr L claimed for unemployment, hed never be able to get 
the business going again if things improved. I think that was an onerous requirement to 
make, especially when compared to the terms for people who were not self-employed.
Ive looked at the records of Bassant & Cos advice, and I cant see any evidence that it 
thought about how these terms for self-employed people affected Mr L, nor that it advised Mr 
and Mrs L around this. And I have not seen any evidence that it brought these significant 
terms to Mr and Mrs Ls attention at the time of the sale and in a way that was clear, fair, and 
not misleading.
I also note that Mr L had a significant operation for his back the year before taking out this 
policy, and his job was in a physical trade. He told us hed only returned to work a couple of 
months before this sale and was continuing to take painkillers. The policy also excluded 
claims due to pre-existing medical conditions from the prior 24 months  so this may also 
have been a significant concern for Mr L. But again, I cant see that Mr and Mrs L were 
advised around this or given clear information about the exclusion at the sale.
I think that if Bassant & Co had given Mr and Mrs L suitable advice, or if it had given them 
clear enough information about the policys main terms and exclusions, then its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI. So I think Mr and Mrs L have most likely 
lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
Lastly, I understand Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way their complaint about PPI was 
handled. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated 
activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated 
activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear about the troubles that Mr and Mrs L had 
with the complaints process, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on 
the sale of their PPI policy.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 August 2021. But neither Bassant & Co nor Mr and Mrs L sent me anything new to 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think this policy was mis-sold.Putting things right
I direct Bassant & Co Financial Services to put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out PPI. That means the policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Bassant & Co needs to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bassant & Co can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bassant & Co to take off tax from this interest. Bassant & 
Co must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one. Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, and direct Bassant & Co Financial Services to put things 
right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman