DRN-3479170
The complaint
Mr M has made several complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard in 
relation to its handling of a claim he has made against it under connected lender liability 
provisions set out in section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
This complaint is about the way Barclaycard has administered the payments on Mr Ms 
account during the period July to December 2021, while his section 75 claim was under 
consideration. Mr Ms concerns about other aspects such as the way Barclaycard handled 
his claim and its response to his data subject access request are being dealt with separately, 
and do not form part of my consideration in this decision, other than where necessary to 
provide background and context.
What happened
On 28 July 2021, Mr M contacted Barclaycard citing his view that a supplier W was in 
breach of contract. As Mr M had paid W using his Barclaycard credit card, he sought to hold 
the bank liable under the relevant provisions of section 75. Barclaycard told Mr M that it 
would suspend the transaction to W  an amount of £5,660.81  so that it wouldnt be 
included in the billing calculation. However, a few days later the full balance including the 
amount paid to W was collected by direct debit.
Mr M was obviously unhappy with this situation, particularly as he continued to receive text 
messages indicating the transaction would remain unbilled. He contacted Barclaycard to 
query its actions. In response Barclaycard gave Mr M assurances about the steps it would 
take to manage the direct debit to avoid recurrence. These steps included setting his 
minimum payment to £0, and saying that it would reset his direct debit to collect full payment 
once the section 75 claim was determined. It also paid Mr M £150 compensation, though this 
was at least in part to encompass other problems hed experienced in setting up the claim.
Barclaycard issued its response to the section 75 claim in October. But in December Mr M 
had to contact Barclaycard again, as his direct debit hadnt been reset to collect full payment 
as the bank had said it would. As a result hed been charged interest on the running balance, 
though this didnt include the transaction relating to W. In response, Barclaycard credited 
£75 to Mr Ms account by way of apology. However, Mr M wasnt happy with the explanation 
the bank gave and sought to escalate his concerns.
Barclaycard issued a further response in January 2022. It acknowledged that its response in 
December contained incorrect information about the direct debits and suspension. The 
banks letter expanded on the reasons for collecting payment in August 2021, and its failure 
to reset the direct debit to full payment. By way of resolution Barclaycard refunded £4.90 
interest it had charged Mr M, and paid him a further £500 compensation to reflect his 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr M remained unhappy and wrote again to Barclaycard, also raising further points about 
the banks procedures, its systems for handling claims, and its complaint investigation and 
decision-making processes. He also referenced his concerns over the banks handling of his 
data subject access request, and supplied additional information in support of his section 75 
claim, which Barclaycard had reconsidered. As I understand it, Barclaycard hasnt issued 
any further response to this correspondence insofar as it related to the current complaint 
subject matter.
Our investigator thought Barclaycard had done enough to respond to and deal with Mr Ms 
complaint. He acknowledged the frustration and disappointment Mr M had experienced. But 
the investigator wasnt persuaded Barclaycard needed to take additional action or respond to 
all of Mr Ms unanswered questions. Rather, he considered Barclaycards responses and the 
compensation it had paid Mr M were a fair and reasonable way to resolve the dispute.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that in my summary of the complaint background above, I havent 
considered it necessary to list in detail every exchange Mr M had with Barclaycard about its 
administration of his account and direct debit payments. I have, however, read all of those 
exchanges in the course of my review. I think it sufficient to say that this correspondence 
was extensive and to a large degree should not have been necessary. Mr M has 
undoubtedly been put to a good deal of trouble in trying to ensure Barclaycard did what it 
said it would do.
I must recognise that, albeit somewhat belatedly, Barclaycard did provide Mr M with a more 
detailed explanation of what had gone wrong and why. Mr M had further questions in light of 
that response, but it does represent the banks final word on the complaint. So I can 
understand why in January it said it wouldnt engage in further correspondence, even if Mr M 
remained dissatisfied.
Im conscious Barclaycard and our investigator have both explained the process for dealing 
with a section 75 claim doesnt automatically trigger suspension of the underlying transaction 
or a refund. That is true, though it isnt quite the whole picture in this case. Mr M was told this 
was what would happen. Once Barclaycard realised things had gone awry by collecting full 
payment in August, it could have done a little more to assist, perhaps by explaining to Mr M 
how he might be able to use the direct debit guarantee to reverse the position.
Ive thought about whether this should mean Barclaycard should increase the compensation 
it has paid. It presumably left Mr M with significantly less in his bank account than hed 
expected. However, Im not persuaded that the fact the bank could have taken other steps is 
quite the same as saying it should have done so. I must also recognise that, had the 
transaction been reversed and then placed into suspension, Barclaycard reached a 
conclusion on Mr Ms section 75 claim shortly afterwards. At that point, according to what it 
told Mr M, the suspension would have been lifted and Mr M would have needed to make full 
payment to avoid interest on the sum in question.
Its only right that Barclaycard recognises its shortcomings and in this case I would fully 
expect it to compensate Mr M. Setting aside the £150 credit the bank gave Mr M in 
September, which was not entirely connected to the matter of his direct debits, Barclaycard 
has paid him £579.90 compensation.
Having reviewed all that has happened, and within the parameters Ive already mentioned 
about the remit of this decision, Im satisfied the £579.90 Barclaycard has paid Mr M both 
suitably addresses the interest he was charged and reflects the inconvenience to which he was put by its actions.
I appreciate Mr M has raised other matters he thinks should be investigated and addressed, 
which relate to the systems and procedures Barclaycard has in place for dealing with section 
75 claims, account suspension, and its investigative process among other things. I have no 
general power to oversee the way in which businesses undertake these functions, or to 
make directions other than as I deem appropriate in order to resolve an individual dispute. 
So I trust Mr M will understand that I mean no disservice to him or his concerns when I say I 
dont propose to comment on those aspects. They arent material to the way in which I 
consider the complaint should be resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank 
UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to take any further action to resolve Mr Ms complaint about 
the way it administered the payments on his account. For the avoidance of any doubt, I 
make no finding or decision on any aspect of Mr Ms other complaints which are connected 
to the same underlying section 75 claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman