DRN-2831954
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) seeking to recover 
claim costs from him on behalf of a third party. Mr A says hes not liable for any costs. 
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr A complained to Admiral and they offered him £25 as an apology for the time taken to 
look into his complaint. Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it 
not be upheld. She found that it was reasonable of Admiral to ask Mr A to complete a 
consent and indemnity form because they were continuing to deal with the claim made by a 
third party.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings so the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr A previously brought another complaint to our service in 2019 about Admirals decision to 
refuse to accept this initial claim and I note that Mr A has provided various comments about 
that complaint as part of this new complaint. But I wont be commenting on the previous 
complaint  as my decision only deals with the new issues Admiral have addressed in their 
final response letter dated 13 November 2020. In this final response letter, Admiral stated:
As you have previously raised a complaint in respect of our decision to repudiate 
your claim under General Condition 11 for a breach of the policy Terms & Conditions, 
I will not be readdressing this complaint or decision made.
In summary, my decision is about whether or not it was fair and reasonable of Admiral to 
request that Mr A sign a consent and indemnity form to allow them to deal with the claim on 
Mr As behalf. Its not about whether Mr A breached the policy terms by his alleged drink 
driving and failure to provide a urine sample after a failed breathalyser test. 
Having considered the evidence, I have to tell Mr A that I think the investigator has reached 
a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Admiral have explained that following the repudiation of a policy its their process to send 
customers a Consent and Indemnity form which enables them to deal with any claim on 
Mr As behalf. This isnt unusual in this type of scenario. This is to try and resolve matters 
without always needing to go through the courts and the likely costs involved. 
In their letter to Mr A dated 24 June 2020, Admiral outlined their reasons for asking Mr A to 
sign the form:
We will endeavour to settle the claim(s) on the best terms possible without a 
judgment being entered against you. Upon conclusion of the claims(s), we will 
contact you, the driver or both of you to arrange reimbursement of the costs. 
If you chose not to complete the Consent and Indemnity form, we would most likely 
obtain a completed Assignment and Agreement (A&A) form from the third party(s), 
which would allow us to settle their claim(s) as we see fit. The Assignment and 
Agreement form transfers the right of recovery from the third party(s) to us and allows 
us to recover the losses from you, the driver or both of you.
This was also explained in their final response letter: 
This means, following any repudiation of any claim, we would send our customers a 
Consent & Indemnity Form, which would allow us to deal with the on your behalf to 
avoid an escalation of claim costs. We would then look to settle all aspects of the 
third partys claim and recover the costs from you directly.
Overall I find that Admiral followed their process in requesting Mr A sign the form as its 
entitled to take steps to minimise its potential outlay. 
I also find that theyve treated Mr A fairly and reasonably in doing so and the £25 offer 
Admiral made is proportionate to the impact of their delay in responding to this new 
complaint. 
Mr A may be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in 
trying to informally resolve his dispute with Admiral  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman