DRN-2837377
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans was irresponsible in its 
lending to him. Mr B is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have 
referred to Mr B throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a £1,000 loan by Dot Dot Loans in July 2019. The loan was 
repayable over nine monthly instalments of just under £200 each. Mr B says that adequate 
checks werent carried out before the loan was provided and that he had other debts 
outstanding at the time. He says if adequate checks had been carried out Dot Dot Loans 
would have realised the loan was unaffordable.
Dot Dot Loans says that before the loan was provided it carried out several checks including 
an income and expenditure assessment and a credit check. It says Mr B confirmed the 
information provided and that based on this the loan was affordable. It noted Mr Bs 
comment about the information on his credit file and says this was taken into account in its 
lending decision. Dot Dot Loans says that details of the payment schedule were included in 
the loan agreement and that when Mr B contacted it in February 2020 it replied to his 
contact.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that further verification of the 
information gathered was required and didnt think there was enough evidence to say the 
loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he took out two loans before the Dot 
Dot Loans - one in September 2018 and one in May 2019  and his complaints about both of 
these loans had been upheld.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. My reasons in summary were:
Before the loan was provided information about Mr Bs income and expenses was 
gathered. Mr B provided a monthly income figure of £1,500 and while this was 
increased after verification I thought it reasonable that £1,500 was used as part of the 
assessment.
Mr B provided information about his expenses. His housing costs were recorded as 
£551 a month and £51 recorded for Mr Bs living expenses. I thought the living 
expenses number was low and noted that no amounts were included for utilities, 
other credit commitments or in the other category. Dot Dot Loans increased Mr Bs 
expenses which I thought gave a more realistic amount for Mr Bs living costs.
Dot Dot Loans carried out a credit check which reported that Mr B had over £4,000 of 
loan and instalment credit accounts and had taken out two short term loans in the 
previous six months and closed one in the previous 50 days. I accepted that at this 
early stage in the lending relationship Dot Dot Loans wasnt necessarily required to 
request copies of Mr Bs bank statements (although this could have been an option), 
but I thought it should have asked further questions about his other debts. 
Had further information been gathered about Mr Bs credit commitments, Dot Dot 
Loans would have realised that Mr B had two other loans outstanding, one with a 
monthly repayment amount of around £120 and one with a monthly repayment 
amount of around £100 as well as other outstanding short term loans which were 
recorded in Dot Dot Loans credit search as being for £591 in the previous six 
months.
I thought the combination of Mr Bs other credit commitments, including a loan being 
taken out in May 2019 and his use of short term loans should have raised concerns 
that Mr B was struggling to manage his money. 
I looked through the bank statements Mr B provided and saw he took out short term 
loans with three different providers in the months leading up to the Dot Dot Loans 
loan and while he was making repayments he was then taking out further borrowing. 
I thought this raised concerns about Mr Bs ability to sustainably make repayments 
on any new debt.
Overall, I accepted that the initial checks were proportionate, but as these identified a 
mismatch between the credit information and the amount Mr B had declared for his 
credit commitments, I thought further checks should have taken place. I thought that 
had further checks taken place, Dot Dot Loans would have realised that lending the 
amount it did to Mr B over a nine month period wasnt sustainably affordable. 
Based on the above I upheld Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Dot Dot Loans didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Dot Dot Loans was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans - 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Having carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context. As I have previously explained I think the initial checks carried out were reasonable. 
But as the information received through these checks showed a mismatch between the 
expenses information and the credit check I think further checks should have taken place to 
ensure that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr B. Had these checks been carried out 
I think that Dot Dot Loans would have realised that Mr B was struggling to manage his 
money and that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should fairly pay in 
this case Ive thought about what might have happened had it not lent to Mr B, as Im 
satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Dot Dot Loans liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on the loan along with interest of 8% 
simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Dot Dot Loans to take off tax from this interest. Dot Dot 
Loans must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold. Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman