DRN-4229387
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander has declined to refund the money she lost in 2018 to what 
now appears to have been an investment scam. She brings her complaint with the 
assistance of professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will refer 
predominantly to Mrs D.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs D invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). She 
invested from her Santander account through two cheques issued in March 2018, amounting 
to a total of £50,000. Mrs D explains she wrote the first cheque when she visited an advisers 
office in the City of London, having followed up on an earlier email. 
While Mrs D received some interest or dividend payments initially, these later halted. W has 
since entered liquidation and Mrs D has highlighted significant concerns that it may have 
been operating fraudulently.
Mrs D reported what had happened to Santander in 2022. She complained when it did not 
reimburse her. She said Santander had breached a duty of care by failing to question her 
about the cheques shed written and, had Santander done so, it would have come to light the 
investment was not legitimate, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Santander says it is not responsible for the loss. Mrs D had authorised the cheques. It had 
no reason to block Mrs Ds cheques or otherwise intervene before they were cleared. These 
payments had been made before the APP scam code (the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code or CRM Code) had been introduced, and the code doesnt apply to cheque 
payments.  That meant the code simply didnt apply to Mrs Ds payments.
Mrs D referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. The Investigator thought Santander arguably should have spoken to Mrs D about 
these payments  given they were for relatively large values compared to her normal 
account usage. But even had Santander done so she didnt think Santander (or Mrs D) 
would have had sufficient grounds to conclude the investment was not legitimate, given what 
it could reasonably have uncovered at the time. She didnt think Santander could have 
prevented Mrs Ds loss.
Mrs D maintained that had Santander intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned her this was a 
scam. And even without giving Mrs D financial advice, the bank could nevertheless have 
given her relevant warnings. Had it done so, this would have meant she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the cheque payments and would have avoided the loss she has now sustained.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mrs D is responsible for transactions shes carried out 
herself. Mrs D doesnt dispute that at the time, she intended to make these cheque 
payments, albeit in the belief she was investing in a legitimate scheme. Santanders primary 
duty here was to process her instructions without delay.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Santander to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a cheque payment does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before the 
cheque is cleared.
Here, Santander did not intervene. Arguably it did not need to. While each payment was for 
a relatively large amount, Santander has evidenced several other debits and credits for 
sums in excess of £10,000 on her account within the previous twelve months.
But even if I were to accept that Santander ought to have intervened here and spoken to 
Mrs D about one or more of these payments prior to processing them, I consider it unlikely 
this would have prevented her loss. While there are now significant concerns about the 
legitimacy of Ws business, these first began to surface in the period surrounding Ws 
liquidation, and therefore several years after Mrs Ds two cheque payments.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Santander could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mrs D about her cheques back in 
March or April 2018.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent in early 2018 that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused Santander (or Mrs D) to 
have specific concerns about this. 
Mrs D has provided copies of investment literature I understand she received at the time. 
This appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave an 
explanation of the risks involved, recommended investors should seek independent financial 
advice prior to making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had 
been approved by an FCA regulated firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough 
here for Santander to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed  even if had 
insisted on seeing the material, which I do not think it saw at the time
It is possible of course that the investment might have represented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mrs D to take. But Santander didnt have any obligation to step in to 
protect its customers from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess suitability 
without an explicit request from Mrs D (which there was not) would have gone far beyond the 
scope of what I could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate response to what, on the 
face of it, were legitimate payment requests from its customer.And while it is plausible to think that had Santander spoken to Mrs D it might have given her 
general information about investment scam risks, I dont think a proportionate response from 
the bank would have led Mrs D not to proceed of her own accord  again I simply dont think 
shed have been able to uncover information that would have caused her to question what 
shed been told about W, disbelieve the literature shed received, or have significant doubts 
about proceeding with the payments she was planning to make. Shed visited the offices in 
person which I consider would likely have played a part in her belief this was legitimate.
Mrs Ds representatives have also stated that information has been obtained indicating that 
Santander had previously held an account for W. They state this had been closed, and that 
this meant the bank should have known Mrs Ds payment to W at another bank might be 
fraudulent. Ive considered this argument, but it doesnt alter my findings. 
Firstly, W appears to have been able to open an account with a different bank (the account 
that received Mrs Ds cheques).  Had a previous account with Santander been closed 
through suspicions of fraud, that would seem extremely unlikely, and on balance I find that 
implausible. 
And more importantly, even if this could be established to the contrary, I dont consider 
Santander could realistically be expected to have uncovered that connection in the course of 
a proportionate intervention in relation to either of Mrs Ds cheques. That would have 
required a level of forensic investigation beyond what I consider would be reasonable to 
expect of good industry practice at the time, and out of proportion to the level of risk it could 
have identified.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mrs Ds submissions, I dont find that significant 
concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either Santander or Mrs D at the 
relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Santander to have been 
proportionate to what the perceived level of risk could have been at the time (not as it seems 
now). All considered, I dont think it likely that Santander could have prevented these 
payments from being made, or otherwise caused Mrs D not to proceed.
Finally, by the time Mrs D reported the matter to Santander, I understand that the receiving 
bank account was no longer active and so no funds would have remained for recovery at 
that point. So it simply was not possible for Santander to have retrieved Mrs Ds money.
Having carefully considered everything Mrs D and Santander have submitted, I dont find 
Santander could have reasonably prevented Mrs Ds loss here. Neither do I find it materially 
at fault otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mrs D would like me to give, and I am sorry to have 
to disappoint her. she has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont consider 
I can fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint 
about Santander UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman