DRN-4305640
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon apportioned the 
death benefits from her late husbands workplace pension. 
What happened
Mr R had a workplace self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Scottish Equitable Plc 
trading as Aegon (Aegon), to which he and his employer both contributed. Mr R was 
married to Mrs R, and they had a child O in 2011 who has a disability. Mr R also had two 
older children (A and J) from his previous marriage, who were both under 23 at the 
relevant time.
Mr R sadly and unexpectedly passed away in June 2022, and Aegon was notified by his 
employer. Aegon needed to contact Mr Rs next of kin regarding the death benefits of the 
policy, but the address the employer provided was Mr Rs previous marital home, where his 
older children live. So Aegon wrote to Mr Rs legal representatives at that address, and the 
letter found its way to Mrs R. 
Mr R hadnt completed an expression of wishes letter to set out how he wanted his pension 
benefits to be distributed. So Aegon asked Mrs R to provide details of any person who might 
be financially dependent on Mr R. On receipt of this information the trustees would exercise 
their discretion to apportion the pension to the beneficiaries. Mrs R completed Aegons form 
in October 2022, as Mr Rs next of kin and widow. She listed Mr Rs potential beneficiaries 
as herself and his three children, plus she included details of Mr Rs parents and brother, 
although they were not financially dependent on Mr R. 
Mrs R was named as main beneficiary and sole executor in Mr Rs Will. She thought the fair 
outcome would be for she and the three children to all receive equal shares of Mr Rs Aegon 
pension.
But Aegon decided Mrs R and the two older children A and J should receive a distribution 
from the policy, but O received nothing in his own right. Mrs R complained as she thought it 
unfair that Mr Rs children werent treated equally, particularly as O has complex needs and 
will require care for life, which limits her ability to work to support them both. Aegon said that 
because O is only 11 hes considered to be dependent on Mrs R, so the funds are just paid 
to her.
Unhappy with this, in December 2022 Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. Mrs R felt 
she was being put under pressure by Aegon as she needed to make a decision within 
thirteen months of Mr Rs death to avoid a tax charge. 
She also complained about the lack of empathy she was shown at such a difficult time, and 
how she had to constantly chase Aegon to progress the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She was satisfied the policy terms 
allow the trustees to use their discretion to distribute the benefits as they saw fit. But she 
thought the way Aegon dealt with Mrs R through the claim process caused her significant 
upset and distress, so recommended compensation of £350 for that.
Mrs R still felt it was unfair that Mr Rs three children werent treated equally. She queried the 
point of the information requested on the beneficiary form when Os impairment had been 
ignored. 
And Aegon didnt think they should pay compensation, as they said Mrs Rs complaint was 
about the claim outcome not the customer service it provided, so shed need to raise her 
concerns about that separately. Our investigator said it would be unfair to inconvenience Mrs 
R further by treating the claim handling as a separate matter. 
On further consideration Aegon agreed to pay £350 to Mrs R, but she still thought the claim 
decision was unfair, so asked an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs R and her family for the sudden and 
untimely loss of Mr R, which must have been a huge shock. I also understand this sad event 
was closely followed by Mrs R receiving the formal diagnosis of Os condition, and the likely 
impact on his ongoing health and care needs. So shes clearly been going through a difficult 
and distressing time, which hasnt been helped by the upset and stress around the 
distribution of his pension. 
Mrs R is the beneficiary under the terms of Mr Rs Will, and his sole executor. But death 
benefits from a pension are not automatically distributed according to the terms of the 
deceaseds will (or the rules of intestacy if there is no will), as they do not form part of the 
estate. So my role here is to decide if Aegon fairly and reasonably discharged their duty in 
deciding how to distribute the death benefits of Mr Rs plan
The policy terms and conditions state, that on receipt of satisfactory evidence of the 
members death, the death benefits of Mr Rs workplace pension would be distributed to 
survivors who are beneficiaries under the rules. A survivor is defined as any person who, 
in the opinion of the scheme administrator .. is a dependent, nominee or successor of that 
member. 
Aegon uses the definition of a dependent as set out in paragraph 15 of Schedule 28 of the 
Finance Act 2004. The relevant definitions for this complaint are as follows:
(a) a person married to or in a civil partnership with the member at the date of the members 
death (which would apply to Mrs R).
(b) not relevant
(c)a dependent child (which may apply to Mr Rs children). 
According to the Act, a child aged under 23 is considered a dependant. As all three children 
A, J and O were aged under 23 at the time of Mr Rs death, they were automatically 
considered Mr Rs dependents. It goes on to say that when a child reaches age 23 they will stop being a dependant unless, 
in the scheme administrators opinion, they were, at the date of the members death 
dependent on the member due to physical or mental impairment. So the reference to mental 
or physical impairment would only be relevant if any of Mr Rs children were 23 or older at 
the time he died, which doesnt apply in this case.  
Section 16.6 of the terms and conditions explains that the trustees have discretion over the 
distribution of the death benefits of Mr Rs policy, which means there is no set way in which 
they should do this. 
Mrs R has told us Mr R had another pension plan which was distributed according to his 
expression of wishes. Mr R had apparently made provision for his two older children by 
including them in the ownership of his rental property. Mrs R feels strongly that Os interests 
should be similarly protected, particularly as hes unlikely to live independently as an adult, 
unlike the older children who can work.
The Guide to Death Benefits for Mr Rs policy explained the nominations you make arent 
binding on us. This means that while we can take your wishes into account, the final decision 
about who to award benefits to, and how much to allocate to them rests with us. We may 
choose other or additional people as beneficiaries. Mr R hadnt completed a letter of wishes 
for the Aegon plan, but even if he had, the trustees werent obliged to follow it, if they thought 
the benefits should be distributed some other way. 
Id like to reassure Mrs R that the way she completed the form didnt affect the decision 
Aegon made. And perhaps it would be helpful to explain that usually where there is a widow 
and dependent children, 100% of the policy would go direct to the widow, with the children 
receiving nothing in their own right. So if all three children (A, J and O) were of the marriage, 
or were dependent on Mrs R and resident with her, then its likely none of them would have 
received a distribution in their own right. The death benefits of the policy would most likely 
have been paid to Mrs R as their parent, on the assumption she will act in the childrens best 
interests. 
Although their age meant the two older children were considered to be Mr Rs dependents, 
they were from his previous marriage, and did not live with, nor were they dependents of Mrs 
R. So the trustees decided to award a distribution to them, and for this reason the policy was 
split three ways. I appreciate Mrs R feels its unfair, but O would never have received a 
distribution in his own right. So I dont think the way Aegon decided to distribute Mr Rs 
pension was unreasonable, and dont uphold that element of Mrs Rs complaint.
However I agree with the investigator that Aegon could have treated Mrs R with more 
empathy through the claim process. She was acting as the executor of Mr Rs estate, which 
is a formal role and inevitably requires some administrative effort. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Aegon to advise her of the tax implications. But she was also a grieving 
widow, so to avoid adding to her distress the process should have been made as smooth as 
possible, without the need for repeated chasing. And some of the communications couldve 
been handled with greater sensitivity. So I think Aegon should pay some compensation to 
reflect Mrs Rs distress.  
I understand Aegon has now agreed to the investigators recommended compensation. So I 
uphold the service element of Mrs Rs complaint and direct Aegon to pay her £350. Putting things right
Aegon should pay Mrs R £350 if it has not already done so.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part. Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman