DRN-2845032
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount hes been paying for his home insurance policy over the 
years. The policy is held with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
Mr D has been assisted in his complaint by his representative. But Ill only reference him in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mr D had a home insurance policy with Aviva for many years. Aviva recently stopped selling 
the particular policy he had. 
In looking for a replacement policy, Mr D realised he could get similar cover for a fraction of 
the price. 
So Mr D complained to Aviva. He felt itd overcharged him for the last few years. And he 
wanted some of the premiums hed paid over the years - which he believed to be excessive - 
refunded. 
Aviva said Mr D had the opportunity to accept or reject the renewal price he was offered 
each year. And that the cost of insurance policies can vary based on each insurers view of 
the risk, the level of cover offered, and other factors. It said it hadnt overcharged Mr D over 
the years.
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response and referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and concluded that Aviva hadnt treated Mr D unfairly. 
She said shed looked at how Mr D had been engaging with his renewal process over the 
years. And that she didnt think Aviva had taken advantage of any lack of engagement on his 
part. She also said Mr D had made some claims over the years, which resulted in the risk 
level changing. In our investigators view, this explained the increases in cost and so she 
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly when setting the price of Mr Ds policy.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators assessment of his complaint. He said hed been 
able to find another insurer offering him a similar level of cover for around a fifth of the price 
Aviva offered him at his 2019 renewal. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first highlight that I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk or say 
what an insurance policy shouldve cost. In effect Id be telling a business how it should 
operate and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr D fairly throughout the period he held its 
insurance policy. 
Unfortunately, based on everything Ive seen, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, as he feels strongly that Aviva hasnt 
treated him fairly. He feels its charged him premiums that he believes to be excessive. But 
Ill explain why I dont think Aviva has overcharged him. 
From the information available to me, it seems that the policy dates back to 1992. Aviva has 
only been able to provide pricing information from 2004 through to 2019. This shows that the 
2004 premium was £541.49. And the 2019 premium was £1,073.31.
After 2004, the cost of the policy went down for a few years, reaching its lowest point in 2010 
when it was £358.96. But after an escape of water claim in late 2010, the cost of the policy 
began to increase steadily.
The escape of water claim cost almost £10,000. Mr D made a further claim in 2016, but this 
wasnt accepted. As he didnt have cover for this claim it was noted as a loss only.
I need to consider whether Aviva has treated Mr D fairly in the way its set the pricing of his 
policy. 
When a customer hasnt engaged with their renewal documents year after year  that is, 
theyve kept on paying the renewal price without getting in touch with their insurer or 
shopping around  wed describe these customers as inert. We think that at some point the 
business should become aware of this and wed expect it not to increase the price solely 
because of the customers inertia. Aviva has confirmed that Mr D never contacted it to 
discuss the price of the policy. 
In this case, having looked at what happened around each time the price went up at renewal 
I cant say the price increases to the policy were as a direct result of Mr Ds lack of 
engagement with the renewal process. So I dont believe Aviva has unfairly increased the 
price of Mr Ds policy. 
I say this because, firstly, its normal for the cost of insurance to go up. Insurers often give 
new customers a discount and then increase the price over the next few years to recoup that 
initial discount. I dont think thats unreasonable. Secondly, there were points at which claims 
were made. This changed Avivas assessment of the risk level of the policy. And largely 
explains why the cost increased. I dont find this unfair or unreasonable. 
It appears that Mr D only started to feel hed been overcharged when he started to look for a 
different insurance policy after his Aviva policy was discontinued. He found a much lower 
premium with another insurer at the time. 
Ive considered this. But, the new policy wont be identical to the one Mr D had with Aviva 
and so cant be compared like for like. There may have been differences in the cover 
provided and there will be many factors which impacted each insurers view of the risk it was 
being asked to cover. All insurers will view and price risk differently. So just because there 
are cheaper alternatives available elsewhere, this doesnt mean Aviva has treated Mr D 
unfairly. 
I acknowledge that Mr D has asked this service to consider that his renewal documentation 
only started to mention the option to move to another provider in 2018. But Ive not found evidence that Mr Ds lack of engagement led to increased premiums. So this doesnt affect 
my decision. 
 
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr D, but I dont think Aviva has taken advantage of 
him or acted unfairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman