DRN-4166890
The complaint
Miss B complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it granted her loans which she couldnt afford to repay.  
What happened
Miss B was advanced two loans from Mr Lender and a summary of her borrowing can be 
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date number 
instalmentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £200.00 06/02/2019 20/02/2019 3 £101.86
2 £500.00 20/02/2019 being repaid through 
a debt management 
plan 6 £231.33
Each loan was structured so that each payment decreased in value through the life of the 
loan. 
Following Miss Bs complaint Mr Lender wrote to her to explain it wasnt going to uphold it 
because it had carried out proportionate checks.  Unhappy with this response, Miss B 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint, and he didnt uphold it because he said 
Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks which showed each loan was affordable. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint because at the 
time she had taken out other loans from other providers. Miss B also says she lost her job in 
2018 and someone else repaid her Mr Lender loan. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Bs complaint because there were only two loans and I agree. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.
For both of these loans Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks. It asked Miss B to 
declare her income and expenditure details and it also carried out a credit search. Having 
thought about these checks Im satisfied they were proportionate, and the checks showed 
the loans to be potentially affordable. Ive explained why below. 
Miss B declared her monthly income to be £1,600 for both loans and Miss B declared 
monthly outgoings of £489 for loan one and £229 for loan two. Miss B therefore declared a 
sufficient amount of disposable income for each loan to enable Mr Lender to reasonably 
believe she could afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
Miss B has said that she had lost her job in 2018 and Im sorry to hear that. However, that 
information wasnt reflected in what she told Mr Lender at the time, and it also doesnt 
appear to have been reflected in the results of the checks that Mr Lender conducted. So, it 
didnt know that she wasnt working. And importantly, at this point in the lending relationship, 
I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what Miss B declared without the 
need to verify her income. 
Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks or to raise any other red flags. It knew Miss B 
wasnt insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County 
Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loan. In addition, it was given information to suggest that for loan one Miss B did have an 
outstanding payday loan. For loan two, Mr Lender was informed by the credit reference 
agency that there were zero outstanding payday loans. 
I am satisfied that he presence of one other payday loan wouldnt in my view, have prompted 
Mr Lender to have either carried out further checks or to have declined the applications for 
credit. I say this because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure 
assessment and even factoring that loan into Miss Bs monthly repayments the first loan still 
looked affordable. 
There were no signs, from the credit check results to indicate Miss B was in financial 
difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
I appreciate Miss B has provided copy bank statements, but for a loan chain containing two 
loans where the checks carried out were proportionate and showed she could afford the 
repayments I dont think Mr Lender needed to view or check her bank statements. To do so, 
wouldve been disproportionate to the circumstances. 
Overall, the proportionate checks Mr Lender carried before each loan showed it Miss B could 
afford the repayments and Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Miss B 
declared about her income and expenditure. There also wasnt anything else to suggest 
these loans would either be unaffordable for her or unsustainable. So, I dont think 
Mr Lender did anything wrong when it approved the loans for Miss B and it follows Im 
therefore not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman