DRN-3029881
The complaint
Mr W complains Shawbrook Bank Limiteds approach to strong customer authentication 
means that his internet account is no longer truly an internet account. He says that means 
there are times when he wont be able to use his account when he should be able to.
What happened
Mr W has a savings account with Shawbrook Bank. He has to give at least 45 days notice if 
he wants to withdraw money, and any withdrawals he does make have to paid into a 
nominated account. In addition, he cant make payments (standing orders, direct debits, or 
card payments, for example) from his savings account. Mr W also has a current account with 
another bank who allow him to authenticate using a device that reads his card.
Mr W has told us that he doesnt have a mobile phone and that he is often abroad for long 
periods of time. Hes also told us that hes likely to be spending more time abroad in the 
coming years and to need more regular access to his accounts. 
In August 2020 Mr W emailed Shawbrook Bank about its plans to use mobile phones to 
authenticate their customers. Shawbrook Bank had written to its customers to say that theyd 
soon need to be able to authenticate through a one-time passcode sent to their mobile or 
landline. Shawbrook Bank had said customers who werent able to authenticate in either of 
these two ways wouldnt be able to get online access to their accounts. Mr W replied saying 
that he was unhappy that Shawbrook Bank had sent him a message requesting his mobile 
number, not least because hed already said he didnt have one. Mr W suggested alternative 
ways that Shawbrook Bank could go about authenticating customers including using card 
readers and tokens.
In November 2020 Mr W emailed Shawbrook Bank again having received a further message 
explaining that Shawbrook Bank would be rolling out its new strong customer authentication 
process in January 2021. Mr B complained that he wouldnt be able to access his account if 
Shawbrook Bank went ahead with the changes it was proposing.
Shawbrook Bank investigated Mr Ws complaint and issued a final response in January 2021 
saying that it was required to make changes to its processes for authenticating customers by 
March 2021 and was required to accommodate the majority of its target customer base. So, 
it had taken into account the fact that its target customer base were permanent UK based 
residents liable for tax in the UK when deciding what changes to make. Shawbrook Bank 
said that it had looked at a number of alternatives, including card readers, but had decided 
sending one-time passcodes to a mobile phone or a landline were the most appropriate 
options. Shawbrook Bank said that if Mr W needed to access his funds whilst abroad then 
hed have to withdraw them in advance  he needs to give at least 45 days notice if he 
wants to withdraw money  but that he could contact its savings team in the event of an 
emergency to arrange a withdrawal. Shawbrook Bank also gave Mr W the option of 
withdrawing his funds without having to give notice and moving elsewhere if he was unhappy 
with the changes. Mr W wasnt happy with Shawbrook Banks response as hed already said 
he didnt have a mobile and a landline wasnt an option. So, he complained to us. He said 
that hed opened an internet based account with Shawbrook Bank because he needs to be 
able to use his account all over the world, particularly when he travels. He said that having to 
rely on his landline or a mobile phone meant his account was no longer an internet based 
account. He also gave lots of reasons why a mobile phone doesnt work as an authentication 
solution.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
they thought Shawbrook Bank had provided a viable alternative to a mobile phone  namely 
sending one-time passcodes to a landline. Our investigator said that Mr Ws account was a 
savings account, and not an account out of which he could make card payments, set up 
standing orders, direct debits or bill payments. In the circumstances, they didnt think the 
Payment Service Regulations applied or guidance that the FCA had published on strong 
customer authentication. They also took into account the fact that Mr W rarely accessed his 
account. Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings, saying that unless and until 
Shawbrook Bank provided an alternative that worked when its customers had internet 
access only, then there would be times when he wouldnt be able to access his account 
online. For example, when travelling abroad. He didnt think how hed used the accounts in 
the past was relevant either. So, I was asked to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook Bank told Mr W in August and November 2020 that it was making changes to the 
way customers logged into and used its online services in line with new regulations. The new 
regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  required payment service 
providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so, or firms 
who didnt have to make changes from changing their processes.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Shawbrook Bank has gone about those checks  and the alternative 
ways of authenticating it offers (none of which Mr W says allow him to continue to use his 
account as an internet account)  is at the heart of this complaint.
Shawbrook Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Shawbrook Bank explained to Mr W in August and November 2020 that it would be making 
changes to the way its customers logged into and used its online services - it explained that 
these changes were in line with new regulations. Shawbrook Bank told Mr W that hed need 
to supply a mobile number or a landline number in order to authenticate through a one-time 
passcode. Shawbrook Bank told Mr W that if he wasnt able to authenticate in either of these 
two ways he wouldnt be able to get online access to his account.
Shawbrook Bank has told us that although Mr W needs to give at least 45 days notice to 
withdraw from his account  and so would likely need to give notice that he wanted to 
withdraw funds before he travelled abroad if he was going to need access to his funds whilst 
abroad  he could contact its savings team in the event of an emergency to arrange a 
withdrawal. Im satisfied that this is the case and that Mr W would likely need to give notice 
to withdraw funds from his account if he needed them whilst he was abroad before he 
travelled abroad  given the notice period involved. Those funds would also have to be paid 
into Mr Ws nominated account, or an account nominated by Mr W. If Mr W makes his 
current account his nominated account  assuming he hasnt done so already  that means 
any funds Mr W withdraws would have to be paid into an account with another bank who 
allow him to authenticate using a device that reads his card. Im also satisfied that, in the 
event of an emergency, Mr W could contact Shawbrook Banks savings team and arrange a 
withdrawal at short notice. I accept that he would need access to a telephone in order to do 
this  whether that be a landline phone, mobile phone or an internet phone.
Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has a number of internet accounts. Hes also told us that he 
opened these accounts because its important to him that hes able to manage his finances 
over the internet  that, according to Mr W, is what an internet account should by 
definition allow you to do. Hes given us lots of reasons why people generally, including 
himself, like to open internet accounts. For example, the convenience of being able to 
manage your finances online compared to the inconvenience of having to call your bank or 
visit a branch (particularly during Covid and in light too of the number of branches that have 
closed over the past few years and continue to close). But those are simply examples  his 
fundamental point is that its important that internet accounts can be managed over the 
internet with only access to the internet and that unless and until that option is available 
there will be scenarios when payments transactions will be rejected, blocked or interrupted  
something the EBA has warned against.Mr W has also told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and hes explained why even if 
he did it wouldnt help him manage his finances. He makes a lot of good points. Hes also 
told us that he owns a computer  this is the device he uses when hes at home  and that 
the computer he owns at the moment is a laptop. And finally, hes told us why in the past 
hes needed to manage his finances whilst away from home, and why this will be particularly 
important to him in the years to come.
Its clear from what Mr W has told us that his complaint about Shawbrook Banks approach 
to strong customer authentication is that it simply doesnt allow him to manage his finances 
when hes travelling. Hes able to log onto his account and use Shawbrook Banks online 
services when hes at home, as he has a landline to which one-time passcodes can be sent, 
but as he rightly points out this only works when hes at home and not whenever he has 
access to the internet. In the circumstances, I can see why Mr W says that his internet 
account is no longer operating like an internet account because of the way Shawbrook 
Bank has approached strong customer authentication.
Mr W isnt complaining about Shawbrook Banks decision to update its processes in line with 
strong customer authentication - this is an important measure designed to combat fraud. And 
hes not complaining about having to complete additional checks either. He agrees that 
strong customer authentication is an important measure designed to combat fraud. Im 
satisfied that the only reason why Mr W complained was because he didnt feel Shawbrook 
Bank had offered a method of authenticating that would allow him to continue to operate his 
accounts as internet accounts. He wouldnt have complained had Shawbrook Bank, for 
example, offered him the option of authenticating using a card reader or a token. Shawbrook 
Bank has, however, told Mr W (rightly or wrongly) that it looked into card readers but theyre 
not an option it will be offering.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different authentication methods for your customers.
Should Shawbrook Bank have done more for Mr W?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not 
Shawbrook Bank should do more for Mr W and whether or not its actions are fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Theres an 
argument that the Payment Services Regulations and the guidance the FCA has published 
dont apply to Mr Ws account. Its a savings account and no payments (standing orders, 
direct debits, or card payments, for example) can be made from it. So, Ive taken that into 
account. Ive also taken into account the fact that Shawbrook Bank has said it made 
changes to the way their customers log on and use its online services because of the 
Payment Services Regulations. And finally Ive taken into account what Mr W says, namely 
that if a business decides to implement strong customer authentication  or change its 
processes in line with strong customer authentication  then it has to follow the FCAs 
guidance and / or the spirit behind it including thinking about what the EBA has said on 
ensuring payment transactions arent rejected, blocked or interrupted.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Shawbrook Bank to make changes to its processes following the introduction of strong 
customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud  to the extent that 
it needed to. Im very confident Mr W doesnt think so either. The main issue I have to decide 
is whether or not Shawbrook Bank has offered Mr W a viable alternative to use when hes 
not at home  given that he wont be able to rely on his landline when hes not at home  
and, in particular when hes travelling abroad. Having done so, and having taken everything 
else into account, I also have to decide whether whats happened here is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances or not. So thats what Im now going to do.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. I can see why the 
FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns a mobile phone, nor is 
everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these groups arent overlooked 
otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online banking or make online 
payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the only groups potentially 
affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be problematic, depending on the 
solution adopted. Mr W, given his background, is perhaps more knowledgeable than many 
when it comes to potential pitfalls here and has explained in detail potential problems that 
consumers might have in the future  particularly when travelling abroad. I agree with Mr W 
that this might well be an issue that will cause problems in the future. But I also have to 
remember that I am looking at this individual complaint and have to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr W has a savings account with Shawbrook Bank. As our investigator pointed out, its not 
an account out of which he can make card payments, set up standing orders, direct debits or 
bill payments. Its also an account where normally he has to give at least 45 days notice in 
order to access his funds.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any examples of when hes been unable to log onto or 
manage his savings account  he can still do so when hes at home. Its not an account he 
uses frequently. Mr W has said to us that the way hes operated his account in the past isnt relevant  he says the only thing thats relevant is how he wants to operate his account. I 
agree with Mr W to a degree  its clear hes likely to travel abroad far more and for long 
periods of time in the years to come. So, what hes done in the past is likely to be less 
relevant. I do, however, think I can and should take into account the type of account he has, 
and how it can be used. In this case, as Ive said, he has a savings account from which he 
can normally only withdraw money  which is then paid into an account nominated by him  
after giving at least 45 days notice. And I also think I can and should take into account how 
hes used the account in the past and how hes likely to do so in the future  including how 
that might change. Mr W has said that the type of account shouldnt matter, and that if a 
business has decided to make changes to its processes because of strong customer 
authentication then it has to follow the FCAs guidance bearing in mind what the EBA has 
said about not rejecting, blocking or interrupting payments. I can see what Mr W is saying 
here, but I do also have to bear in mind that the Payment Services Regulations and the 
FCAs guidance both talk about payment service providers and payment accounts. More 
importantly, I also have to decide this case based on whats fair and reasonable.
In this case, having taken the type of account Mr W has into account, including the amount 
of notice he has to give in order to withdraw funds and the fact that any such withdrawals are 
paid into a nominated account, and the fact that Shawbrook Bank has said he can contact its 
savings team should he need to withdraw money in an emergency, I dont think I can say 
that Shawbrook Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably. In short, much as I can see where 
Mr W is coming from, and much as Im grateful for his comments and insight, I dont think it 
would be right to uphold this particular complaint. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman