DRN-3283362
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a delayed departure 
claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 18 November 2020, Mr M booked a trip to a country Ill call N. He flew to N on 21 
November 2020 and was due to return to the UK on 3 January 2021. However, Mr Ms return 
flight was cancelled by the airline due to operational reasons. The airline told Mr M that it 
couldnt offer him a new flight until 24 January 2021. As Mr M needed to return to the UK 
before that date, he bought a new return ticket, which cost around £450. Mr M made a claim 
on his travel insurance policy for the cost of his new return flight.
IPA turned down Mr Ms claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the policy 
terms. And it said that when Mr M had booked his trip and travelled to N, thered been a 
national lockdown in place and the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
had advised that travelling away from home was restricted in England between 5 November 
and 2 December 2020. The advice also stated that travel disruption worldwide was possible. 
Travel against the advice of a government agency was specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. 
Mr M was unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told us 
that hed called IPA ahead of booking the trip and to check that hed be covered.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
cancellation of a flight by an airline due to operational reasons was covered under the 
delayed departure section of the policy. And she also felt that as Mr M had travelled against 
FCDO advice, IPA had been entitled to conclude that the claim was specifically excluded 
from cover. Shed asked IPA and Mr M for evidence of the call Mr M had said hed made 
ahead of booking the trip. IPA couldnt locate any calls around this time and Mr M said he 
wasnt able to obtain this information.
Mr M disagreed. He didnt think it was practical to expect people to keep call records for calls 
which had taken place over a year ago. He thought IPA shouldve kept a record of this call. 
And he didnt think insurers should be able to sell travel insurance at a time when 
international travel was restricted. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this decision 
will only consider IPAs handling of Mr Ms claim. I wont be looking into the sale of the 
insurance. Thats because IPA didnt sell the insurance (or packaged account) to Mr M. It 
was taken out through his bank. So if Mr Ms unhappy with the way the account was sold to 
him, hell need to complain directly to his bank about that issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether IPA treated 
him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
contract with IPA. Mr Ms original return flight was cancelled by his airline and so he had to 
remain in N for two days longer than hed planned. Effectively, he was delayed abroad for 
that period. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for IPA to consider the claim in line 
with the Delayed Departure section of the policy. This provides a benefit of up to £250 if a 
policyholders travel is delayed in the following circumstances:
If you have arrived at the terminal and have checked in or attempted to check in during your 
outward journey or homeward journey and the departure of your pre-booked scheduled 
public transport is delayed at the final departure point for more than 4 hours from the 
scheduled departure time due to:
1. strike or industrial action; or
2. adverse weather conditions; or
3. mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the scheduled public 
transport on which you are booked to travel.
IPA has provided us with a copy of the call Mr M made to it to make his claim. During the 
call, Mr M said that hed had to buy a new flight as his pre-booked return flight had been 
cancelled by the airline due to operational reasons. It isnt clear whether Mr M had arrived at 
the terminal or checked-in for the flight before it was cancelled. But what is clear is that Mr 
Ms original flight wasnt delayed due to strike or industrial action; adverse weather 
conditions; or mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the airline. And I think IPA has 
clearly set out the insured events it covers under this section of the contract. So I dont think 
IPA acted unfairly when it concluded that the claim wasnt covered under by the Delayed 
Departure section of the policy.
IPA also relied on the following general exclusion clause to turn down Mr Ms claim:
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which a government agency in the 
country of residence or the World Health Organisation has advised the public not to travel, or 
which are officially under embargo by the United Nations.
It said that because of the national lockdown which had been imposed in England on 5 
November 2020 and which was due to end on 2 December 2020, the FCDO had stated that 
international travel was restricted and was only permitted for a specific list of reasons. By Mr 
Ms own account, hed travelled to N for leisure purposes during the relevant period, which 
wasnt permitted. It isnt clear though whether his flight was cancelled as a result of Covid-19 
or what the operational reasons were which led to the cancellation. But as Ive set out above, 
I dont think Mr Ms claim is covered by the delayed departure section of the policy in any event, so I dont think I need to make a finding on that particular point.
In addition, IPA also considered the following general exclusion applied to the circumstances 
of Mr Ms claim:
Any circumstances you are aware of that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a 
claim under this policy.
In this case, its clear that at the point Mr M booked his trip and indeed travelled, there was a 
national lockdown in place and the FCDO was advising that travel away from home was 
restricted except for limited reasons. This followed a period of travel restrictions since 17 
March 2020, when the FCDO had initially advised against all but essential travel. And there 
had been well-publicised global and ongoing travel disruption due to Covid-19 and its knock-
on impact.  So in the circumstances, I think it ought to have been reasonably foreseeable to 
Mr M that his travel plans might be disrupted and that he might incur additional costs. So I 
dont think IPA acted unreasonably when it applied this exclusion to the circumstances of Mr 
Ms claim.
Mr M says he called IPA before booking his trip to check he was covered. Ive thought about 
this carefully. Mr M says he cant provide evidence that this call took place (for example, in 
the form of a call log or phone bill) because he called from an old mobile number. IPA says it 
cant find any record of such a call with Mr M, despite searches. Ive thought about this very 
carefully and I accept its possible that Mr M was told that his trip would be covered. 
However, on the evidence before me, I dont think I can fairly find, on balance, that its most 
likely that IPA did give Mr M any misinformation or that he lost out as a result. If, however, 
Mr M is later able to provide further information about this call to IPA, such as the date, time 
or number he called from, IPA has said it will search further. In my view, this is a reasonable 
and appropriate response.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate hes been left out 
of pocket, I dont think his claim is covered by any section of his contract with IPA. So I find 
that it was fair and reasonable for IPA to turn down his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman