DRN-4314488
The complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) unfairly declined a claim for his dog, 
under his pet insurance policy.  
What happened
In January 2023 Mr M noticed lameness in his dogs right hind leg. The vet confirmed this 
was the result of cruciate disease. Treatment was then provided in January and February to 
treat the problem. Mr M made a claim to Covea under his policy, but it declined to cover the 
cost of the treatment. 
Covea told Mr M that as his dog had received treatment for the same disease in its left hind 
leg in June 2021, this claim was excluded under his policy terms. It says cruciate ligament 
disease is classed as a pre-existing bilateral condition. Because of this it declined to pay the 
claim. 
Mr M thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld 
his claim. He says the two incidents were around 18 months apart. There is no clear 
evidence that the first condition led to the second condition. Or that this was noted by the vet 
as likely to happen to the other leg in the future. Our investigator says theres no indication 
Mr M was aware of the condition prior to January 2023. So, he says that Covea should settle 
the claim. In addition to 8% simple interest for the delayed payment, if Mr M has paid for the 
treatment himself.
Covea disagreed with this outcome. It says the same operation has been performed on both 
hind legs. Its common for dogs to suffer with bilateral cruciate ligament rupture. It says this 
is where instability of the first injured leg leads to weakness in the other. Covea says Mr Ms 
vet recorded in his dogs clinical notes that this is a commonly bilateral issue. It says this 
means the claim is excluded under its policy terms.
Our investigator didnt change his mind based on Coveas comments. So, it asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Mr Ms policy terms and conditions to understand the exclusion Covea has relied 
on here. The terms say:
Pre-existing medical - Any condition, or complication directly resulting from or relating to 
that condition that has been identified or investigated by a vet or that has the same 
diagnosis, clinical signs or symptoms as a condition prior to the start of this insurance, 
regardless of the areas affected in or on your pets body.
In its decline letter Covea says that when referring to pre-existing conditions, any bilateral 
condition will be deemed a pre-existing condition and be excluded from cover. I cant see 
that bilateral conditions are specifically mentioned in the policy terms. But the terms do 
confirm that pre-existing includes any condition that relates or results from a condition that 
has already been identified prior to the inception of the policy. Covea says this applies to the 
conditions here.
I can see that Mr Ms dog was treated for cruciate disease for its left hind leg in June 2021. 
The clinical records say
Radiographs confirm that have [sic] cruciate ligament rupturewill need cruciate operation. 
The records show the required surgery was performed in July 2021. 
The clinical records include no mention of any issues with Mr Ms dogs right hind leg. Nor do 
they mention the potential for future problems for the right hind leg due to the disease in the 
left. 
The first reference to an issue with the right hind leg is in the clinical notes dated 27 January 
2023. The notes say:
RH lame for few weeks - worse upon rising after periods of rest. LH - had previous cruciate 
injury - july 2021 recommend GA and x-rays to assess cranial drawer and rule out other 
issues - suspect cruciate injury as so commonly bilateral problem. 
And on 23 February 2023 the records say:
Radiograph summary - moderate joint effusion in the right stifle with mild osteoarthritic 
changes - likely to be consistent with suspected cruciate disease.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr Ms dog required the same surgery for both its left 
and right hind legs. This was first identified in May 2021 for the left hind leg. But it wasnt 
until January 2023 that it was identified in the right hind leg. Ive thought about whether this 
means its fair for Covea to exclude the 2023 claim as a pre-existing condition. I dont think it 
was. 
I say this because there was a period of approximately 19 months between identification of 
the disease in the two different legs. There is no clinical note in 2021 or in the notes leading 
up to the later diagnosis, that indicates a problem in the right hind leg. In September 2021 
the records show Mr Ms dog was recovering from it left hind leg operation. The treating vet 
advised exercise could be increased. There is no mention of any issue or potential issue to 
be aware of with the right-hand leg at this point either. 
I acknowledge that Covea specifically highlights the clinical note from 27 January 2023. This 
states cruciate injury is suspected in the right hind leg at this time as it is, so commonly a 
bilateral problem. In these cases our approach is to consider all the circumstances, 
including the time elapsed between the presentation of the conditions. In addition to any 
clinical records linking the disease to potential future problems in a bilateral body part.  
In Mr Ms dogs case, the issues were identified approximately 19 months apart. Theres no 
reference in the clinical records, to a potential issue in the right hind leg when the first 
diagnosis was made. The same is true for the notes made subsequent to this. The clinical 
records from January 2023 refer to a bilateral condition. But Im not persuaded that Covea has shown the same cause resulted in the disease occurring in the right hind leg as in the 
left. I also dont think the evidence shows that Mr M was aware of this condition until 
January, which is when he took his dog to the vets. 
In summary, I dont think Covea is reasonably able to rely on the policy exclusion it has in 
order to decline Mr Ms claim. It should now settle his claim based on the remaining terms of 
the policy. It should include 8% simple interest on its settlement payment from the date Mr M 
paid for the treatment until this is reimbursed.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance Plc should:
settle Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy. 
if Mr M has paid the cost of the treatment Covea should add 8% simple interest from 
the date he paid until this payment is reimbursed. 
*If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman