DRN-1197422
 
Complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct treated him unfairly when it 
denied that it had given him certain information about an arrangement for a withdrawal from 
his account.
Background
Mr G had a current account with First Direct which had an overdrawn balance. Mr G says 
that he had difficulties managing this account. First Direct agreed to open a second current 
account for him which he could operate in credit.
Mr G contacted First Direct and asked it to transfer a credit that had been made to the first 
account into the second account. He wanted to be able to access these funds. First Direct 
agreed to do this but Mr G then realised that he hadnt received his debit card so he 
telephoned First Direct to ask it how he could access the funds.
First Direct told him it would allow him to use the debit card on his overdrawn account to 
withdraw £50 from an ATM. Mr G says that First Direct told him that it would increase the 
overdraft on the account. He could then use the debit card on the overdrawn account to 
make the withdrawal and it would make arrangements with him to pay the full overdrawn 
amount back.
Shortly after this, Mr G says he discovered that First Direct had transferred the £50 from his 
new account into the old account to cover the amount of the withdrawal. Mr G says this was 
not what was agreed. He contacted First Direct about this. He says that First Direct lied to 
him about what was said on the call. Mr G believes that this treatment amounted to 
discrimination. He had previously told First Direct about his mental health problems and by 
lying to him about what was said on the call, he says that First Direct was gaslighting him. 
He complained to First Direct.
First Direct looked into his concerns. It acknowledged that during the initial call to set up the 
arrangement for the withdrawal the adviser couldve been more transparent. It also 
acknowledged that when the call was discussed with Mr G the contents of the call had not 
been accurately portrayed. First Direct also said thered been some other service failings 
and it offered to pay Mr G £300 by way of compensation. But, First Direct also told Mr G that 
it was concerned that hed suggested that its staff were purposely lying to him. It said that if 
this continued it would end its banking relationship with him.
Mr G was dissatisfied with this response. He says that First Direct admitted it had lied to him 
about what was said on the telephone call and that its conduct was not acceptable given his 
mental health issues. So, he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that hed listened to the telephone calls 
when the arrangement to make the £50 withdrawal was set up. He said he couldnt see any 
evidence of errors that First Direct had made. It had set up a basic account for Mr G when hed had issues managing the other account. It had also made arrangements for him to 
access his funds when he hadnt received the debit card on the basic account. Our 
investigator also said that First Direct had correctly recorded dormancy markers on Mr Gs 
credit file in respect of the overdrawn account. In the circumstances he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that First Direct had been purposely deceptive about what was 
said during the telephone calls about the £50 withdrawal. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to make it clear that although Mr G has made a number of complaints 
about the service hes received from First Direct, Im only looking into his complaint about 
the request to make a withdrawal of £50 from the new account that First Direct had opened 
for him. 
Mr G acknowledges that he had difficulties managing his account. The balance on his 
current account was overdrawn. Any new credits were being applied against the overdrawn 
amount. So, Mr G hadnt access to funds to purchase essential items.
I can see that First Direct agreed to open a second account for Mr G. This meant that any 
new credits could go directly into the new account and Mr G would have access to those 
funds. First Direct also agreed to give him a two month breathing space to discuss 
arrangements to repay the overdrawn amount. I think this was a positive response to Mr Gs 
situation.
On the day after the new account was opened Mr G contacted First Direct and asked it to 
transfer a credit, that had gone into the first account, to the new account. First Direct agreed 
to do this. Mr G then realised that he hadnt received the debit card for the new account and 
so he contacted First Direct about this. First Direct suggested to Mr G that it would be able to 
allow him to get cash by using the card on his overdrawn account. 
Ive listened carefully to the telephone call. The information given to Mr G about how the 
withdrawal would be funded was not as clear as it couldve been.  He was told that hed 
need to phone back when he was at the ATM in order for the arrangements to be put in 
place. 
When Mr G called back, First Direct made it clear to Mr G that it would increase the limit on 
his old account to allow him to make the withdrawal but that the money would then be 
moved back from his new account to the old account. Mr G said that this wasnt what hed 
been told earlier but he agreed to go ahead with the withdrawal. 
Mr G telephoned First Direct again shortly after hed completed the withdrawal. He was told 
that the £50 had been debited from his new account. He complained that this wasnt what 
hed been told during the first call. He asked for the first call to be listened to. Mr G says that 
two advisers from First Direct then deliberately lied about what was said on the first call.
The issue I have to decide is whether First Direct deliberately lied to Mr G about what had 
been said during the first conversation. When considering this Ive also thought about what 
Mr G has said about his mental health issues. Having done so, whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr G, I cant see any evidence of a deliberate attempt by First Direct to 
deceive him about what would happen when he made the withdrawal.
During the first call, hed been told that money would be put into the old account. But, hed 
also been told that the overdraft would be increased so that he could take the money out. 
So, the information during that first call was unclear and confusing. He shouldve been given 
a clear message that the £50 withdrawal would ultimately be taken out of his new account. 
First Direct has acknowledged that, after reviewing the first call, its advisers recollection of 
what was said wasnt accurate. But, I dont see any evidence that this was because of a 
purposeful attempt to lie to Mr G about what had been said. I think it was because the 
information given to Mr G during the first call, wasnt as clear as it couldve been.  
Ive also considered the information he was given when he was at the ATM. That information 
was clear. First Direct told him, before he made the withdrawal, that the money would 
ultimately be taken out of his new account. He was also told that the withdrawal amount 
wouldnt be added to his overdraft. So, despite the lack of clarity after the first call, Im 
satisfied Mr G was given clear information before he made the withdrawal. 
First Direct has acknowledged that its service couldve been better. It has offered Mr G £300 
compensation for failings in its service, including how it handled the first call and how it 
reviewed that call. Having taken everything into account, I think that is fair and reasonable 
compensation for what happened here. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc 
trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman