The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs F says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2002 Mrs F took out a PPI policy around the same time as taking out a high-street store 
card during a phone call.
The policy provided protection for Mrs F's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% 
of the outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs F returned to 
work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs 
F owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs F was a director of a company. She said she would've been paid 
by the company if she was off sick, and she had more than 12 months' of her pay in 
savings. Mrs F also said she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs F paid around £460 for PPI in total.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said they 
thought it likely Mrs F chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate for her.
Mrs F also complained about the poor service she received from AXA during its investigation 
into her complaint. And the adjudicator thought AXA's offer of £50 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mrs F disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs F's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs F was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her mis-sale complaint. My reasons are set out below.
DRN-1912487did Mrs F have a choice about PPI?
did she agree to take out PPI? 
Mrs F says she wasn't aware she had PPI. I've therefore considered this point carefully.
Having done so, on balance I think AXA more likely than not did make it clear that Mrs 
F didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant now remember this.
AXA says this was a sale by phone. And while the passage of time means there's no longer 
a recording of the phone call, it's provided us with an example script it says its 
representatives used around the time Mrs F took out PPI.
Looking at this, I can see the representative was prompted to ask a customer if they wanted 
PPI before it was added to their account. 
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Mrs F's account statements as 
a separate entry - and for several years. So, if she didn't recognise what they were, I 
might've expected her to have queried it with AXA at the time - particularly given the level of 
premiums she paid.
So, overall and on the basis that I've not seen persuasive evidence that something very 
different happened in Mrs F's case, I think more likely than not that when it was offered to 
her Mrs F chose and agreed to take out PPI. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs F to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mrs F. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so 
she could make an informed decision about it.
The call script suggest Mrs F was given some information about the policy - at the very least 
I think Mrs F would've understood the basic nature of the cover (that is the policy covered 
her payments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment.) But I accept its possible 
the information AXA gave Mrs F overall about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
But as I found above, I think it's likely Mrs F chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and despite her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs F off taking 
out the cover. 
Some policies would've been inappropriate for Mrs F given her employment circumstances 
because they contained limitations / exclusions for unemployment claims for the self-
employed or owners of their own businesses. But this wasn't the case here - Mrs F's 
company simply had to stop trading, which in my view is not an onerous condition to meet.
Mrs F says her company would've paid her regardless if she was off work ill. But I've already 
said that, I think Mrs F was given enough information to understand the basic nature of the 
cover, so she must have been interested in what it could provide.And given the cover would've paid our regardless of Mrs F's existing means - it also had the 
potential to clear the outstanding balance in full - I still think it could've been useful to her 
if the insured risks became a reality.
So, while AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mrs F PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone 
ahead and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs F has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs F what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said in bringing her complaint - including what 
she's said about not knowing she had PPI and why her other PPI complaints with AXA have 
been upheld. But these points dont change my decision. 
I can't comment on other complaints AXA has upheld - this decision is about the policy Mrs F 
was sold in 2002. And for the reasons I've detailed above, I don't uphold Mrs F's mis-sale 
complaint.
But I do uphold Mrs F's complaint about the level of service she received in making her mis-
sale complaint to AXA.
I can see that Mrs F was particularly concerned about AXA losing two sets of information 
she sent it during its investigation into her complaint. And AXA has agreed that its service fell 
short of what Mrs F should've expected. It says that while its records show her mail was 
received and signed for, due to what it can only put down to an administrative error, it wasn't 
applied to her file.
AXA has offered to pay Mrs F £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she 
suffered as a result. And taking everything into account - including the fact that a degree of 
inconvenience is often encountered when making a complaint of this nature - I think this is a 
fair way to settle things.
My final decision
For the reasons above I don't uphold Mrs F's mis-sale complaint.
But in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mrs F was caused in making her 
complaint, AXA France IARD should pay Mrs F £50.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman