DRN-3728469
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) failed to follow her instructions in 
November 2018 to switch the value of her pension plan from a with-profits fund to a cash 
fund. She says that the error also led to subsequent contributions paid into her pension plan 
being incorrectly invested in the with-profits fund and a Market Value Reduction (MVR) of 
£8,009.88 being applied at a later date and that she missed out on about three years worth 
of investment growth in the cash fund.
To put things right, Mrs D wants Phoenix to reconstruct the value of her pension plan as if 
the error never happened and to not apply a MVR.
What happened
During 2018, Phoenix wrote to Mrs D on several occasions in connection with her pension 
plan because she was approaching her selected retirement age of 60 which was due to fall 
in November 2018. The paperwork issued to Mrs D set out her retirement options and 
instructed her to let Phoenix know what her intentions were. The options included:
1. Taking all her pension savings in one go as a taxable lump sum;
2. Buying a lifetime annuity;
3. Taking her pension savings as a series of lump sums;
4. Choosing more than one option and mixing them;
5. Transferring her pension savings to another pension provider; or
6. Keeping her pension savings where they were and defer taking benefits until a new 
selected retirement date.
The paperwork confirmed in detail what would happen under each option. For Option 6, it 
confirmed that a MVR wouldnt apply at the new selected retirement date or on death where 
the plan holder had previously chosen to keep their pension savings where they were. But it 
warned that a MVR might be applied if benefits were taken or transferred away before the 
new selected retirement date.
On 19 November 2018, when the fund value of her pension plan was then about £27,000, 
Mrs D signed a form confirming that she wanted to:
keep her pension savings where they were (Option 6) and defer taking benefits for 
five years until her new selected retirement age of 65;
switch the value of her pension plan (from the with-profits fund) to a cash fund;
continue paying contributions into the pension plan until her new selected retirement 
date; and 
direct those contributions paid after November 2018 into the cash fund.
In December 2018, Phoenix wrote to Mrs D to confirm that her instructions had been 
received and implemented. Subsequent to this, she completed a direct debit mandate to 
continue contributions into her pension plan.
While Phoenix correctly implemented the new selected retirement age of 65 and switched 
the existing value of Mrs Ds pension plan into the cash fund, it failed to arrange for future 
contributions to be invested into the cash fund  as a result, all contributions paid after 
November 2018 continued to be invested in the with-profits fund, contrary to Mrs Ds 
instructions.
This complaint
During 2021, when she was then aged 62, Mrs Ds financial adviser contacted Phoenix to 
obtain information about her pension plan. This led to an exchange of correspondence 
between the financial adviser and Phoenix. The financial adviser complained on behalf of 
Mrs D. It stated, in summary, that:
Phoenix had failed to correctly implement Mrs Ds instructions in November 2018 to 
defer retirement and implement a new selected retirement age of 65 and had taken 
three years to correct the position;
During this period, a MVR had been applied and no terminal bonus paid as it 
shouldve been which had resulted in her suffering a financial loss; and
It initially stated that she hadnt agreed in November 2018 to switch the value of her 
pension plan from the with-profits fund into the cash fund. In response to evidence 
provided by Phoenix that showed she had instructed the switch into the cash fund, it 
later stated that she didnt fully understand the consequences of switching into cash 
and she had in fact wanted to remain invested in the with-profits fund.
Phoenix upheld Mrs Ds complaint in part. It accepted that in 2018 it had made an error by 
not following the part of Mrs Ds instructions regarding contributions paid into her pension 
plan after November 2018. To put things right, it switched the value of those contributions 
from the with-profits fund into the cash fund which purchased 287.28 units. It said that had 
the error not happened then those contributions wouldve purchased 241.22 units in the cash 
fund. Therefore, in correcting the situation, Mrs D hadnt suffered a financial loss because 
she ended up with more units in the cash fund than wouldve otherwise been the case had 
the error not happened. It also said it would send her a cheque for £150 as compensation in 
recognition of the trouble and upset its error had caused. Phoenix confirmed that a MVR 
hadnt been applied and that on the switch out of the with-profits fund the terminal bonus had 
been correctly applied in line with the deferment process.
Mrs D didnt accept Phoenixs final response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think that Phoenix needed to take any further action. This was because he 
was satisfied that it had already taken steps to correct the value of Mrs Ds pension plan and 
had offered £150 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators assessment. In support of her position, she provided a 
copy of a letter produced by Phoenix dated 30 June 2021 in connection with her pension 
plan that showed the fund value as £36,403.17 and the transfer as £28,393.29, a difference 
of £8,009.88 which she said was the application of a MVR. Since agreement couldnt be 
reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:Phoenixs role  when Phoenix wrote to Mrs D in 2018 about her retirement options, 
its role, as the scheme administrator, was to act on the instructions received. It 
wasnt responsible for advising Mrs D on the best course of action based on her 
circumstances or assessing the suitability of the instructions received. The paperwork 
sent to Mrs D repeatedly suggested that she contact Pension Wise for guidance or 
speak to a financial adviser before proceeding. Phoenix wasnt required to check 
whether Mrs D acted on its suggestion. 
Mrs Ds instructions  the paperwork completed and signed by Mrs D on                       
19 November 2018 made clear that she wanted to; keep her pension savings where 
they were (Option 6) and defer taking benefits for five years until her new selected 
retirement age of 65; switch the value of her pension plan (from the with-profits fund) 
to a cash fund; continue paying contributions into her pension plan until her new 
selected retirement date; and direct those contributions paid after November 2018 
into the cash fund. Therefore, I cannot agree that Mrs D didnt instruct Phoenix to 
switch the value of her pension plan from the with-profits fund into the cash fund. As 
for Mrs D not apparently understanding the implications of the fund switch, as noted 
above, it wasnt Phoenixs role to assess the suitability of the instructions received.
Phoenixs error  Phoenix correctly implemented Mrs Ds instructions in                     
November 2018 to change the selected retirement to age 65 and switch the value of 
her pension plan into the cash fund. But it made an error when it failed to arrange for 
future contributions to be invested into the cash fund. Theres no dispute about this. 
Phoenix has already accepted that it made an error. In correcting the situation, Mrs D 
has ended up with more units in the cash fund than wouldve otherwise been the 
case had the error not happened. So I dont agree with her view that shes lost out on 
about three years worth of investment growth in the cash fund. Im satisfied that                 
Mrs D hasnt suffered a financial loss. Phoenix offered Mrs D £150 compensation in 
recognition of its error. Overall, I think this is a fair outcome.
Value of Mrs Ds pension plan  Despite the actions taken by Phoenix to correct its 
error, Mrs D continues to believe that the situation hasnt been resolved and she 
remains worse off. Her view appears to be based on a letter produced by Phoenix 
dated 30 June 2021 in connection with her pension plan that showed the fund value 
as £36,403.17 and the transfer as £28,393.29, a difference of £8,009.88 which she 
said was the application of a MVR. Ive reviewed that letter which was addressed to 
Mrs Ds financial adviser in response to its enquiry. This is simply a quote of the 
value of Mrs Ds pension plan at that time  she hadnt accessed any benefits or 
transferred away. Mrs D is correct in stating that the difference in value represents a 
MVR  but it would only apply in the event she accessed her benefits or transferred 
away before her new selected retirement age of 65. So long as she takes benefits at 
age 65, a MVR will not apply. This was confirmed in the paperwork provided to her 
by Phoenix before she decided to defer taking benefits until age 65. Below is an 
excerpt from the paperwork for Option 6:               
Therefore, before choosing to defer her selected retirement age, Mrs D was made 
aware of the circumstances when a MVR may apply.
When Phoenix wrote to Mrs Ds financial adviser on 30 June 2021, she was then 
aged 62 and so about three years away from her new selected retirement age of 65. 
Therefore, it was appropriate for Phoenix to quote the indicative MVR that would be 
applied if she accessed benefits or transferred away at that time so that she (and her 
financial adviser) could make an informed decision. I dont think Phoenix made an 
error in highlighting the difference in fund value and transfer value in that letter. If  
Mrs D accesses her benefits or transfers away (or as done so since making this 
complaint) before age 65 then Phoenix is legitimately entitled to apply a MVR, as it 
set out in her options pack in November 2018.
Terminal bonus  Mrs D also complains that Phoenix didnt apply a terminal bonus 
to her pension plan. I dont agree. In responding to this complaint, Phoenix confirmed 
that it correctly applied the terminal bonus when it deferred Mrs Ds selected 
retirement age and later corrected the unit holding of her pension plan. This is 
confirmed by the evidence, as Ill explain. Phoenixs letter dated 14 November 2018 
showed that the fund value of her pension plan was £27,384.08. Phoenixs letter 
dated 30 June 2021 showed the fund value as £36,403.17. This increase in value is 
largely due to the application of a terminal bonus at age 60 when Mrs D decided to 
defer taking benefits until age 65. Therefore, Im satisfied that a terminal bonus was 
correctly applied to Mrs Ds pension plan. 
I understand that Mrs D was upset and frustrated when Phoenixs error came to light. The 
aim of this service when resolving problems is to place the consumer, as close as possible, 
into the correct financial position had the error not happened. For the reasons explained 
above, its my view that Phoenix has corrected its error and offered adequate compensation 
in respect of this. Strictly speaking, Mrs D is actually in a better financial position because 
she ended up with more units in the cash fund as a result of Phoenixs error. Because of 
these reasons, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to direct Phoenix to pay additional compensation to Mrs D  or to take any further action in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so and in line 
with its previous offer, Phoenix Life Limited should pay £150 compensation to Mrs D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman