DRN-2570516
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer, was of an unsatisfactory 
quality.
What happened
 On 5 March 2019, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. He paid a £2,000 deposit and the agreement was for £3,990 over 36 
months. At the time, the car was more than five years old and had done around 38,500 
miles. The supplying dealership said theyd completed a 50-point check before Mr B took 
possession of the car.
Mr B said he started having problems with the car on the day he took possession of it  it 
kept stalling and the rubber cover on the end of the clutch pedal kept slipping off. He also 
said there was a burning smell, smoke was coming from the oil filler cap, the engine 
management light and glow plug light came on intermittently, the car kept going into limp 
mode, and the front bumper popped out when the car was driven at speed. Mr B also said 
there was an error code which suggested that the turbo wasnt working.
The supplying dealership inspected the car but couldnt find anything wrong  they 
suggested the problems may be down to Mr Bs driving style. And it was agreed that the car 
would be inspected by a manufacturers main dealer. The main dealers heath check 
inspection in May 2019 found the clutch was slipping, the brake fluid needed changing, the 
timing belt needed replacing and one of the reversing lights was missing. The supplying 
dealership agreed to repair these issues, but, after the repair, Mr B complained that he was 
still experiencing the same problems with the clutch, warning lights, and the car going into 
limp mode. And hes said he hasnt been able to drive the car since November 2019 
because it keeps going into limp mode.
Mr B paid for his own diagnostic report, which said the turbo had seized. So, he complained 
to Santander. But Santander said they didnt think the turbo fault was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr B. And they thought the repairs done by the dealership had 
fairly resolved Mr Bs complaint. They also said that the glow plug light coming on wasnt an 
inherent fault but a warning that the engine temperature was low, and that this could be 
linked to the diesel particulate filter.
Mr B also complained that the agreement had been misrepresented to him; he was told the 
car came with an upgraded warranty, which it didnt; and the mileage showed as 38,402 on 
the sales invoice but was recorded as 38,535 on an earlier MOT. Santander didnt agree the 
car came with an upgraded warranty, but they agreed to refund Mr B the £15 difference the 
mileage wouldve made the finance application, plus £25 compensation.
Finally Mr B complained there were two sales invoices; the first invoice included £30 road 
tax thatd been added in error, which the second invoice corrected. Mr B says the signature 
on the second invoice isnt his. But Santander didnt agree and said the sale couldnt have 
gone ahead without the second invoice being signed.
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said she thought there was a fault with the turbo on the car which she 
thought was responsible for the car stalling and going into limp mode. She said a turbo can 
fail due to an issue with the oil supply, as it needs a thin film of oil to rotate. And the fault 
codes showing on the diagnostic Mr B had done shows that the oil change interval had been 
exceeded and/or the engine oil had degraded to the point where it must be replaced. The 
investigator said it was recommended that the oil in the car should be replaced every 12 
months or 20,000 miles, whichever is sooner.
The cars service history showed that the last service was in October 2018, but the oil 
change hadnt been ticked. And the last confirmed oil change was in September 2017. The 
investigator said, when the car was sold to Mr B in March 2019, the dealership had access 
to the service history and completed a 50-point check. So shed have expected them to have 
replaced the oil, but theres no evidence that they did. And, because Mr B had the car for 
less that 12-months, she didnt think it was unreasonable that he hadnt had the car serviced.
Because of the above, the investigator though that the car was supplied with poor quality 
engine oil, which caused the fault in the turbo to develop and eventually fail. So she thought 
that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And Santander needed to do 
something to put this right.
The investigator said Mr B should now be allowed to reject the car, and Santander should 
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr B. She also though Santander should 
refund Mr B the £2,000 deposit hed paid, refund all of the payments he made from 
November 2019 (when he stopped using the car), refund him what he paid for diagnostic 
report, refund him what hed paid to have the car recovered, and pay him interest on these 
refunds. And she said Santander should pay an additional £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B suffered as a result of the cars faults.
But the investigator didnt agree that Mr B had purchased an upgraded warranty  no price 
for the warranty was listed on any of the paperwork and there was a clear circle around the 
word declined on the warranty part of the paperwork. And she didnt think there was enough 
of a difference between the two invoices to suggest any fraudulent activity. So she didnt 
think that Santander needed to do anything about this.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendations, but Santander didnt. They said theyd 
contacted the garage whod serviced the car in October 2018, and they said the oil and filter 
were replaced at the time. But, while they updated this on their system, they didnt update 
the service book. So Santander think this would invalidate any claims that the oil had not 
been changed on time before it was sold to Mr B.
Santander also said they contacted the main dealer who did the vehicle health check 
inspection in May 2019. They said the main dealer had said the fault code that appeared in 
November 2019 was due to the vehicle being overdue a service. And Santander said the 
main dealer had said that, if the oil hadnt been changed in October 2019, this was likely to 
cause the turbo to seize. Santander also provided a copy of the 50-point check which shows 
the engine oil was checked at the time.
So Santander have said that the engine oil had been changed by a manufacturing 
dealership prior to [Mr B] taking possession and that it was Mr Bs responsibility to have the 
car serviced. They feel the turbo seized because Mr B didnt get the car serviced, and the oil 
changed, as required.Because Santander didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr B took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Based on what Ive seen, it isnt disputed that the turbo seized because of the poor quality of 
the oil in the car. So what I need to consider is when the oil was last changed, and whether 
that made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B.
The check engine oil box has been ticked on the 50-point checklist thatd been completed 
in March 2019 - before Mr B took possession of the car. But theres nothing to show what 
this check actually was  whether it was to see if the correct level of oil was in the car, 
whether the oil was tested for quality, or whether the engine oil had been changed. 
In the absence of any other information, and as the checklist shows that other fluids (brake, 
clutch, power steering etc.) were just level checks; Im satisfied it was more likely than not 
that the engine oil check was also just a level check. So Im satisfied that the quality of the 
engine oil wasnt tested as part of the 50-point check, nor was the engine oil changed - 
theres no evidence or any statements that the oil was changed as part of this check. Which 
means that the oil in the car when it was supplied to Mr B is most likely the same oil in the 
car at the time of the October 2018 service.
While Santander have said the oil was changed in October 2018, and they say the garages 
systems show this; they havent been able to provide any proof of this, for example a 
screenshot of the system showing what was done. And the only documentary evidence we 
have is the service record that was completed.The service record has been ticked to show the oil was changed when the car was serviced 
on 26 October 2015 and 28 September 2017. But this wasnt done for the services on 12 
October 2016 and 23 October 2018. So, based on what Ive seen, Im not convinced the oil 
was changed in October 2018. 
Ive seen a copy of the health check that was done on the car by a main dealer on 29 May 
2019. While this shows that only the level, and not the quality, of the oil was checked, 
crucially it says, Next Service Due: 20/11/2019. So, based on this, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Mr B to believe this was the date the next service was due. And the turbo 
seized in November 2019, around the same time.
So, even if the oil had been changed in October 2018, I dont think that any reasonable 
person wouldnt expect the oil to deteriorate to the point where parts started to fail in 
November 2019 - when a main dealer had said the next service (which should include an oil 
change) was due.
As all the evidence points to the oil causing the turbo to seize, it follows the oil couldnt have 
been changed in October 2018; or if it was then the oil was likely changed for an inferior 
quality/grade of oil, making it not fit for purpose. And as this happened before Mr B took 
possession, then the car was supplied with the oil issue present or developing. So Im 
satisfied the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Where goods supplied are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows for one chance at 
repair. And this chance took place when the dealership dealt with the slipping clutch, the 
changing of the brake fluid, the replacement of the timing belt, and the replacement of the 
missing reversing light. As this repair didnt resolve the oil issue, Im satisfied this repair has 
failed, and Mr B should now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Mr B says he last used the car in November 2019. While I cant confirm exactly when the 
car was last used, as the evidence shows the turbo seized around this time, Im satisfied Mr 
B most likely didnt use the car from this date. So Im satisfied he should be refunded the 
payments he paid from November 2019 onwards.
As the reasons Mr B didnt use the car were as a result of the seized turbo, he had the car 
recovered to a garage when he moved home (it wasnt drivable). And, when the garage said 
theyd start to charge him for storing the car, to mitigate his losses he had the car recovered 
to his new home. Im also satisfied that Santander should refund these costs to Mr B.
Mr B has also suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of what had happened. 
Hes had ongoing problems with the car, and eventually had to stop using it and arrange 
alternative transport. So, Im satisfied that the £250 recommended by the investigator is 
reasonable in these circumstances.
So, Santander should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
refund the £2,000 deposit Mr B paid.
refund all the finance payments Mr B made since November 2019.
on receipt of evidence from Mr B, refund him:
owhat he paid towards the diagnostic report.
ohis car recovery costspay 8% simple yearly interest* on the above, to be calculated from when Mr B made 
the payments to the date of the refund.
Pay Mr B an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest amount 
Santander should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted If he asks 
for one. Mr B can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading 
as Santander Consumer must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman