DRN-2520059
The complaint
Mr U complains that the loan he had from TFS Loans Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr U took out a guarantor loan with TFS Loans on 24 March 2014. He borrowed £5,000 and 
was due to repay £211.18 monthly for 60 months, finishing on 27 March 2019.
Mr U says that TFS Loans didnt carry out enough affordability checks as his credit file would 
have shown he had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) in 2012, various defaulted accounts 
and was in a debt management plan. He says TFS Loans took into account £300 of income 
from sub-letting but didnt question the length of the contract or consider his regular 
expenditure on bills, travel, and food etc.
Mr U adds that TFS Loans could not have verified his income from his bank statements as 
he was paid in cash and it didnt ask about transfers from other accounts or his wifes 
financial circumstances. Finally Mr U says he struggled to repay the loan and received 
several arrears letters from TFS Loans in 2014.
.
TFS Loans says it asked Mr U about his income and carried out credit searches. It says it 
also asked Mr U for three months of bank statements to verify his income. TFU says it could 
see Mr Us CCJ and defaults on his credit file, but they were all more than two years before 
his loan application. TFS Loans said the CCJ was shown as satisfied and that Mr U had 
explained the defaults were from the time hed lost his job. TFS Loans adds that its 
assessment showed Mr U had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments and 
that, with the exception of one missed payment, his repayment record on the loan was good. 
It says the loan was repaid in March 2019.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied TFS 
Loanss checks went far enough and found that proportionate checks were likely to have 
found the loan was unaffordable. He recommended that TFS Loans should deduct any 
payments Mr U made from the principal and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. He 
said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr Us 
credit file.
TFS Loans responded to say, in summary, that it would like to see further detail about the 
adjudicators assessment. However, as it didnt respond to the further information provided, 
Mr Us complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Guidance issued by the Office of Fair Trading in March 2010 explained that its purpose was 
to provide greater clarity for businesses and consumer representatives as to the business 
practices that the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending 
practices.
Section 4.2 says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. We 
consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, 
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
It defined 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by 
the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
owhile also meeting other debt repayments and other 
normal/reasonable outgoings and
owithout having to borrow further to meet these repayments;
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within 
a reasonable period of time;
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
Section 4.10 said that in the OFT's view, the extent and scope of any assessment of 
affordability, in any particular circumstance, should be dependent upon - and proportionate 
to - a number of factors - which may include some or all of the following as appropriate:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrower's financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrower's credit history including any indications of the borrower experiencing  or 
having experienced - financial difficulty;
the borrower's existing and future financial commitments including any repayments due 
in respect of other financial products and significant non-credit commitments.
The OFT said creditors could employs a variety of sources of information to assess 
affordability which might include some or all of the following examples:record of previous dealings with the borrower;
evidence of income;
evidence of expenditure;
a credit score;
a credit report from a credit reference agency;
information obtained from the borrower.
The OFT added that creditors who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or 
expenditure as part of their assessment of affordabilityshould ensure that whatever means 
and sources of information they employ are sufficient to make an appropriate assessment.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Us case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Us loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show TFS Loans asked about Mr Us financial circumstances, checked 
his credit file and reviewed his bank statements. Im satisfied that TFS Loans had enough 
information to carry out a proportionate check, but I dont find the available information 
indicated the loan was affordable in a sustainable manner. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 60 months and TFS Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Mr Us credit file showed:
onine defaults - although the most recent of these was from over two years 
earlier, only three of them were marked as satisfied;
oHed taken out a high cost loan two months earlier  this was also for £5,000, 
repayable over 12 months;
oTwo bank accounts that were overdrawn by more than £3,000 between them;
oA further £2,100 on two credit cards, of which one was on a debt 
management plan and the other was over its credit limit;
The bank statements showed:
oMr Us income, based on the cash deposits, averaged £1,250 per month;
oA further income of £300 per month which tallies with the income Mr U 
declared for the sub-letting;
oRegular monthly expenditure on rent, credit, petrol, phone and account fees 
of around £1,140
oMr Us expenditure on food was roughly in line with the £160 hed declared to 
this service;
oMr U seemed to be having difficulties paying his rent on time and borrowed 
the money from someone else to make a payment on 12 March (this was 
repaid with the TFS loan money);oFurther evidence of other loans and repayments to/from friends;
oHis account was, on average, around £1,600 overdrawn in the month before 
the loan;
Even before taking Mr Us loans from friends into account, as our adjudicator did, I consider 
TFS Loans should have reasonably suspected he wouldnt be able to sustainably repay a 
further £211.18 per month for five years. The Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) 4.26 says 
that an example of unfair lending practice is Granting an application for credit when, on the 
basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that 
the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Mr U was already having difficulty paying priority bills even without this additional loan and 
was becoming reliant on friends to help him finance this shortfall. Mr U said the loan was for 
the purchase of new furniture and a car, rather than debt consolidation, and his bank 
statements and credit file clearly showed he was already struggling to manage his money in 
the lead up to the TFS Loans loan. He wasnt making any real inroads to his existing debt 
levels and had recently taken on additional expensive debt.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mr U and TFS Loans did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr U towards interest, fees and 
charges on the loan;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr U which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr U originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mr U the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Us credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman