DRN-4082919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly avoided their home insurance policy 
and declined their claim after valuables were stolen from their home.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my 
decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their home insurance policy with QIC after 
their home was burgled. 
QICs jewellers were appointed to complete a loss report, in respect of valuable items. Mr 
and Mrs M provided receipts for the stolen items. QICs jewellers estimated the total value of 
the jewellery to be over £68,000, including 17 items worth over £2,000.
QIC concluded that Mr and Mrs M had provided inaccurate information about the value of 
their valuables when they took out the policy in May 2022. It decided to avoid the policy and 
decline their claim.
Mr and Mrs M appealed against QICs decision. They said they had answered QICs 
questions truthfully and to the best of their knowledge when taking out the policy. They did 
not specify items because most of the purchases were below £1,000, as proven by the 
receipts theyd provided. The total receipt value for the stolen items was £12,000 which was 
well below the policy limit.
QIC maintained its position, so Mr and Mrs M asked our service to consider the matter.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
QIC says Mr and Mrs M provided inaccurate information when they took out the policy via a 
price comparison website in May 2022. It says it wouldnt have offered them a policy if they 
had provided the correct information about the value of their valuables. So, its avoided Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy back to the start and has refunded their premium.
Our investigator referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) when reaching her outcome. 
However, CIDRA doesnt apply if a consumer gives a statement of opinion rather than a 
statement of fact. The cost of replacing Mr and Mrs Ms valuables would vary depending on 
the opinion of the person assessing the cost. So, I dont think CIDRA is relevant here.
 
Instead, Ive needed to base my findings on whether or not QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
QIC has provided screenshots to show the questions Mr and Mrs M would have been asked 
when they took out the policy via the price comparison website. It asks:
How much would it cost to replace your valuable contents items worth less than £1,500 
each?
Include valuables that are easier to steal from the home, like jewellery, gadgets, TVs, 
laptops and antiques.
Beneath this theres a drop down box, to select the appropriate range.
There is also an i indicating there was further information to help answer the question. And 
clicking on the i, reveals the following wording:
Valuable items may also be known as high risk items by some providers. These are items 
that could easily be stolen from your home, e.g. jewellery, electrical goods, antiques and 
more. 
Insurance providers want to know about these items as theyre typically more desirable to 
steal and, if theyre damaged, they can be expensive to replace.
Here are some examples of the top items stolen from UK homes: Jewellery or watches,
The comparison site goes on to ask:
Would you like to insure any valuable items individually worth £1,500 or more?
Include items like jewellery, antiques, TVs, laptops and other tech gadgets.
Exclude any bicycles.
There are yes and no buttons to select underneath this question.
Theres also an option to add items and state what it would cost to replace items between 
£1,500 and £10,000 as new.
So, Im satisfied from the above that Mr and Mrs M were asked clear questions about the 
value of their valuables on the comparison site.
The comparison site also advises customers to check their details to make sure the policy is 
suitable for their needs before purchasing. It goes on to say: Some providers may ask extra 
questions to ensure they can offer cover that suits your needs, which may impact your 
premium.
QIC has also sent us screenshots of the questions Mr and Mrs M would have been asked 
once they were directed to its own website:
Is £10,000 enough to replace all your valuable contents (each worth £2,000 or less) inside 
your home?With a yes or no button to select.
Do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each (not including 
bicycles)?
With a yes or no button to select.
So, Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were asked clear questions on QICs own website, 
after being warned that they might be different to what they were asked on the comparison 
site.
QIC has provided copies of the documents it issued immediately after Mr and Mrs M took out 
the policy online. 
These include a questions and answers document which I think gives a good indication of 
how Mr and Mrs M answered the questions they were asked.
How much would it cost to replace all the contents in your home, including 
valuables? £50,000
Is £10,000 enough to replace all your valuable contents items (each worth £2,000 or 
less) inside your home? No
How much would it cost to replace all your valuable contents items (each worth 
£2,000 or less) inside your home? £15,000
Do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each (not including 
bicycles)? No
QICs covering email says the policy documents can be viewed or downloaded online and to 
please check your policy documents carefully to ensure you understand exactly what is 
covered and any restrictions that may apply.
The first part of the policy wording is: Introduction and important information. Within this it 
says:
It is important that you do the following
Check that the information in your schedule is accurate and that your schedule 
shows the sections of cover you have requested.
If you do not do the things above, this could reduce your insurance cover and we may not 
pay any claim you make.
The policy schedule shows the cover limits for Total unspecified valuable items inside the 
home  each worth £2,000 or less as £15,000. No specified valuable items are showing 
on the schedule.
Valuables is defined in the policy terms as Articles made from or containing gold, silver 
and other precious metals or stones, jewellery (including costume jewellery)
QIC has also referred to the following wording in the policys terms and conditions:
The value of items such as jewellery, watches, works of art, curios and collections often 
varies independently of inflation. You should make sure that these items are insured for the 
correct amount at all times.QICs jewellers validation report says that prior to valuing items to the single article limit the 
value of the claim was £68,653. This was based on the receipts Mr and Mrs M had provided. 
Mr M says the total value of the receipts was around £12,000. However, from what I can see 
most of the items were purchased in the 1990s and the jewellers have noted that this was 
when the gold price was significantly lower.
Ive no reason to doubt the expertise of QICs jewellers. So, I think Mr and Mrs M are likely to 
have significantly underestimated the value of their valuable items when they took out the 
policy.
QIC says that if Mr and Mrs M had made it aware of the true cost of replacing their 
valuables, it wouldnt have offered them the policy.  Its up to an insurer to decide the level of 
risk its willing to take when offering a policy. QIC has sent us evidence of its underwriting 
criteria which shows it wouldnt have offered the policy if the total valuables limit was above 
a certain amount. I cant share this with Mr and Mrs M as its commercially sensitive, but Im 
satisfied that the amount Mr and Mrs Ms valuables were estimated to be worth was 
significantly higher than this. So, I think QICs decision to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim was reasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusions will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, who have suffered a 
substantial financial loss. While I empathise with them, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell QIC to 
reinstate their policy and pay out their claim. Im satisfied that QIC asked Mr and Mrs M clear 
questions when they took out the policy. They were also given the opportunity to correct 
inaccurate information and were warned about the potential consequences of not doing so. 
QIC has also shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs M cover if it had been given 
more accurate information about the value of their valuable items. So, I think QIC has acted 
fairly and reasonably.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
QIC didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider.
Mr and Mrs M said they were extremely disappointed with my decision. They said that whilst 
they could follow my reasoning, they did not accept the decision. They felt it was unethical 
for QIC to have rejected their claim on a technicality when they had been paying premiums 
and not claiming for 40 years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M were hoping for a different outcome to their complaint, and I 
understand how upsetting it is that their claim has been rejected. However, my role is to 
consider complaints impartially. Ive explained why I think QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Whilst I empathise with Mr and Mrs M, their comments havent made a 
difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman