DRN-2464481
The complaint
Miss A complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly 
in 2017. She thinks that Lending Stream did not carry out appropriate checks.  
What happened
Using information from Lending Stream here is a brief loan table of the loans approved for 
Miss A. Each was an instalment loan and due to be repaid in six months. 
Loan amount approved Monthly repayment sums (highest) and 
decreasing each month (rounded figures)
1 £150 17 April 2017 £65 reducing to £30
2 £100 18 July 2017 £46 reducing to £21
3 £200 1 August 2017 £90 reducing to £51
4 £100 16 August 2017 £44 reducing to £20
In Miss As applications to Lending Stream she had declared that her income was between 
£1,600 and £1,650 each month, and her regular monthly expenditure was around £650 to 
£700. Miss A declared that she had credit commitments of £75 for Loan 1 and £25 for 
Loan 4. Lending Stream has explained that having carried out its own independent checks, it 
adjusted those figures and it used those to come to some conclusions as to whether Miss A 
could afford the loans or not. 
Miss A explained in her complaint form that at the time she applied for these loans she had 
other payday loans and she has asked that Lending Stream writes off her debts and 
removes them from her credit file. I understand that most, if not all. of the loans have been 
sold to a third party but I have no details of that or what sums are outstanding.
After Miss A had brought her complaint to us, Lending Stream investigated and concluded 
that Loan 4 ought not to have been lent and it offered to put things right for her on that one. 
But Lending Streams calculations meant that as  Miss A has not repaid anything towards 
that loan then there was nothing to repay to her. But it was going to remove any adverse 
marks we have left on your credit file at the CRA for loan 4. 
CRA is a reference to credit reference agency. 
Miss A was not content to consider the complaint resolved and so one of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and came to the same conclusion. Because Loan 4 would have 
been approved when she already had three outstanding loans with Lending Stream, he felt 
that was not right it went on to approve Loan 4 for her. He set out the way he felt that 
Lending Stream should put things right for Miss A.
After that Miss A sent a screenshot of one part of her credit file and her bank statements 
covering the periods around the time of the loans and asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a review. The credit file screenshot shows very little detail. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this applies to 
Miss As circumstances as she took only 4 loans. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable 
as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. 
I need to explain to Miss A that our approach to these sorts of complaints is that we would 
consider it disproportionate for Lending Stream to have done more than it did when it was 
assessing Miss As applications for the loans. It carried out credit searches and I have seen 
the results. They are brief but do not show enough for Lending Stream to be concerned. And 
for Loans 1 to 3, I think it was entitled to rely on the information Miss A supplied together 
with its owns searches. 
However, I do agree with Lending Stream and our adjudicator that by Loan 4, Miss A had too 
many outstanding loans with it already to justify a fourth. And as this has been conceded by 
Lending Stream then I say no more about it. I have set out a series of paragraphs in the putting things right section of this final decision 
which gives the overall approach Lending Stream must take to rectify the situation. If Loan 4 
was sold to a third party  which I think it may have been  then I do not know whether 
Miss A has paid anything towards the loan. But Lending Stream needs to check this. 
And I note that Miss A has asked for the loans to be written off but I do not include that as 
one of the ways for Lending Stream to put things right. Miss A has had the benefit of the 
principal sum advanced to her of £100 and so that needs to be repaid. 
So, I uphold Miss As complaint in relation to Loan 4 only. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss A from loan 4, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss A may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss A in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss A  would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Lending Stream shouldnt have given Miss A loan 4.
If Lending Stream has sold Loan 4, it should buy it back if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Lending Stream is not able to buy the debt back then Lending Stream 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss A towards 
interest, fees and charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Lending Stream has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss A originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, - here Loan 4 - and treat any repayments made by Miss A as 
though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss A having made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending 
Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Miss A. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss A. Lending Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal Lending Stream have already written-off.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss As 
credit file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman