DRN-2312968
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied to her through a 
conditional sale agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFS). 
What happened
On 28 July 2019 Miss K entered into a conditional sale agreement with CFS for a second-
hand car. The car was registered on 1 May 2016, which means it was about three years and 
two months old at the time of purchase. The cash price of the car was £23,878 and it had 
travelled 60,729 miles. Miss K part exchanged her existing vehicle for £7,831, So the credit 
agreement was for £16,047 payable over 60 months.
In September 2019 Miss K noticed several engine warning lights were on display on her 
cars dashboard.  Miss K contacted CFS to complain about this and explained that she didnt 
feel safe. She provided CFS with photos of the error messages, and a diagnostics report 
detailing a number of error codes and a quote for repairs. 
CFS arranged for an engineer to have a look. Miss K explained that at that point the car 
wouldnt move, so the engineer advised that it be brought into the dealer for repairs. The car 
was with the dealer for around two months. Miss K was supplied with a courtesy car for the 
duration.
On 7 December 2019 the car was returned to her having had a new instrument cluster fitted. 
However, two days later Miss K contacted CFS to say that many of the problems were 
persisting. Although the car was driveable, it was taking longer to start and had problems 
when going uphill, meaning shed have to apply more gas. She noticed it was making loud 
noises and the fuel efficiency had declined significantly. Miss K contacted CFS again to 
request a rejection of the car as she didnt feel safe.
CFS explained theyd need an independent inspection of the car carried out so they could 
ascertain if there was a problem. So they arranged for Automotive Consulting Engineers 
(ACE) to inspect her car. On 16 December 2019 ACE completed their inspection of the car 
which included a ten-mile road test. ACE advised they couldnt find any evidence of the 
problems being reported by Miss K. Their report concluded that they experienced no 
difficulty in starting, no reduced performance and no warning light illumination. They added 
that the repairs carried out by the dealer appeared to have been successful. 
As the car was inspected in less than a day, Miss K believed they hadnt conducted a 
comprehensive enough test. CFS arranged for another inspection involving a longer 
distance road test. This was initially booked in for January 2020, and was rescheduled for 
March 2020 due to Miss Ks availability.
On 3 March 2020 ACE re-inspected the car, this time involving a road test that covered 90 
miles. Miss K hired a car for the duration of this inspection so she could remain mobile.  
Besides the service light illuminating to advise that AdBlue would be required, they hadnt 
found there to be any other issues. On 9 March 2020 CFS sent out their final response to 
Miss Ks complaint, upholding it. They concluded that the car was proved to be in a good 
state of repair. They paid her £100 as compensation for the inconvenience caused, and 
£179.96 as reimbursement for the car she had to hire during the inspection.
 
In April 2020 Miss K contacted CFS to report further problems with her car. She explained 
there were rumbling noises from the engine and the car wouldnt go above 40mph. The 
lights were also showing up on the dashboard again. As ACE hadnt found any problems in 
their last two inspections, CFS requested that Miss K provide them with an experts report 
outlining any issues with the car and whether they were present when it was supplied to her.
 
In June 2020 Miss K provided a diagnostic report, however the report she provided wasnt 
on headed paper and hadnt made clear whether the issues identified were likely to be 
present at the point of sale; so CFS said they couldnt accept it. During this interaction Miss 
K complained to CFS about the manner in which they handled her concerns. On 22 July 
2020 CFS sent their final response offering Miss K £50 in compensation for the poor service 
and advising that shed still need to provide another report that met their requirements.
In June 2020 Miss K also brought her complaint to our service; and on 9 September 2020 
she provided our investigator with an independent report dated 3 September 2020, from a 
health check that was carried out on her car. Three issues were identified in the report:
particulate filter restriction/ soot accumulation bank 1
turbo boost sensor A circuit low input
function limitation due to received data from control unit
The advice from the report concluded that the associated fault codes that were identified, 
usually puts the car into safe mode which results in reduced power and performance. 
The investigator completed his investigation and concluded that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss K.
Unhappy with the investigators response Miss K asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
My starting point is CFS supplied Miss K with a second-hand car that had travelled 60,767 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at 
£23,878 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So I think it is fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there were faults with the car. This is 
apparent from the repairs carried out by the dealer, the various reports provided by Miss K 
and the correspondence from CFS addressing and upholding Miss Ks complaint. Having 
considered the car had a fault, Ive had to consider whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply.
Miss K first complained about the problems with her car around two months after being 
supplied it. She explained that many warning lights had lit up on the dashboard and that the 
car wouldnt move. To support this Miss K provided a diagnostics report that showed many 
of the problems being related to the ABS function. She also obtained an invoice which 
recommended the replacement of injectors and the ABS pump. CFS confirmed that the 
repairs carried out in December 2019, involved replacing the instrument cluster, the start-
stop battery and the ABS pump. 
Although the car had done a fair amount of mileage, it wasnt particularly old, Miss K paid a 
significant amount for it, hadnt done a lot of mileage and had a fairly major issue quite soon 
in to her ownership. I dont think this is something a reasonable person would put down to 
normally expected wear and tear. And there is no indication that there was any accidental 
damage or misuse by Miss K. So on balance its likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.
From the information provided Im persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss K, however Im satisfied that CFS took the appropriate action to 
repair it. I will go on to explain why I think this.
Following the repairs Miss K reported further problems with the cars performance when 
going uphill, with engine noises like continuous revving sounds and with poor fuel 
consumption. She explained that she didnt feel safe and wanted to reject the car.
Miss K reported further issues soon after the car was returned to her. CFS arranged for two 
independent inspections by ACE, over the course of three months, which included two 
separate road tests covering 10 miles and 90 miles. Both inspections included diagnostics 
tests for fault codes. Neither inspection found any of the issues reported by Miss K. Having 
reviewed the ACE reports, and considered the space between each inspection, Im not 
persuaded that the issues as described by Miss K were significant. In addition, I note that 
Miss K had driven around 4,000 additional miles in the car from when the repairs were 
carried out in December 2019 to the point of the second inspection in March 2020. So I think 
Its more likely than not that the initial issues with the car had been repaired, particularly as 
prior to her car being taken in for repair, Miss K explained that the car wasnt moving, So, 
having considered all the evidence provided, on balance Im persuaded that the repairs 
carried out in December 2019 were carried out to a satisfactory standard. 
Under the terms of the CRA, the action taken by CFS to repair Miss Ks car was fair and 
appropriate. And as the repairs were established as being successful, Im not persuaded that Miss K has the right to reject the car. So, in the circumstances I wont be asking CFS to do 
anything more.
In august 2020 Miss K reported that the lights on the dashboard had come on again as 
before. Since first reporting the problems in September 2019 its been almost a year and the 
car has travelled over 10,000 additional miles. I cant ignore that the miles travelled by Miss 
K since purchasing the car, is likely to have exacerbated any existing the wear and tear of 
the vehicle. In addition, the newer issues with the car would present warning lights to reflect 
the issues, however it doesnt automatically mean its related to the first issue reported. Ive 
already established that its likely the repairs carried out were successful, so I cant say that 
the problems being experienced are as a result of poor workmanship or from issues that 
were present at the time of purchase.
CFS have asked Miss K to provide a report demonstrating that the issues were there at the 
time of purchase. In the circumstances, I think CFS request here was reasonable. Although 
Miss K provided a report in June 2020, CFS said they couldnt accept that report because it 
hadnt met their criteria detailing that the problem was developing or present at the time of 
purchase. I think CFS have been fair in their request, because having looked at that report 
Im not persuaded that there are any continuing inherent problems. In addition theres no 
indication from the engineer that these problems are likely to have been continuing or 
present at the point the car was supplied to Miss K. 
The faults identified in the health check, carried out in September 2020, was the turbo 
sensor, the particulate filter restriction and the function limitation from received data. I note 
that considering age and condition, its not uncommon for a turbo sensor to experience 
problems after 70,000 miles, and its also not beyond reason that the issues with the 
particulate filter is related to, or a catalyst for the problems with the cars turbo system, for 
example due to pressure anomalies from soot accumulation. Similarly, Im not persuaded 
that the issue with the turbo sensor isnt triggering the function limitation error code.  
For the reasons explained, I dont think the reports that Miss K has shared, provide enough 
evidence for me to conclude that a link exists between the initial problems experienced with 
her car and what Miss K has reported more recently.
In response to Miss Ks complaints, CFS provided two final response letters (FRLs). I think 
their responses in both instances were fair and reasonable. I say this because in relation to 
the in the first complaint, Miss K had been reimbursed for the courtesy car she used while 
the repairs were carried out, and she was paid £100 in compensation for the inconvenience. 
From the information Ive seen the car was picked up soon after she contacted CFS, and 
was repaired. In addition, two ACE reports were arranged to check that the faults hadnt 
recurred. So, in the circumstances Im satisfied that their actions have been fair. 
In the second complaint, having seen the email communication in question, I agree that the 
response from CFS could have been handled better, however I think £50 is appropriate in 
the circumstances to put things right, particularly as no further loss or impact appeared to 
have been caused.
I acknowledge that Miss K has provided a report which has identified ongoing issues with 
her car. However, as Ive already explained, I think CFS remedied the initial breach of 
contract with a successful repair. And Im not persuaded the other issues mean the car is not 
of satisfactory quality. So, I dont think that CFS needs to carry out further repairs or accept a 
rejection of the car.
My final decisionTo settle the complaint Clydesdale Financial Services Limited paid £150 compensation to 
Miss K and reimbursed her £179.96 to cover the cost of the car she hired. I think this is fair 
in all the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman