DRN-2203498
The complaint
Mr O complains about TSB Bank plcs actions when applying a default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr O held a current account with TSB which had an approved overdraft facility of £2,500.
In July 2019, TBS carried out a review on Mr Os accounts and subsequently decided to end 
their banking relationship with him. It followed that the overdraft facility was recalled.
On 8 August 2019, TSB wrote to Mr O and let him know that hed need to pay the debt owed 
within 30 days. On 28 August 2019, TSB wrote to Mr O again as no payment had been 
received. 
On 7 September 2019, a further letter was sent to Mr O asking for payment and explaining 
that any unarranged overdraft debt would be reported to the credit reference agencies.
On 1 October 2019, a final letter was sent to Mr O asking for immediate repayment. And the 
letter informed Mr O that if payment was not made within 13 days the debt would be 
transferred to a debt collection agency and a default would be applied. At this time, the 
outstanding debt was around £2,500.
On 12 October 2019, Mr O made a payment of £80 towards the debt.
On 19 October 2019, as the debt hadnt been settled, a default was applied.
The investigator thought the default had been applied fairly. She said Mr O was aware in 
August 2019 that his account with TSB would close and knew in September 2019 that the 
overdraft debt needed to be repaid. The investigator was satisfied that the overdraft was 
repayable on demand, and as it hadnt been settled, or a repayment plan agreed, TSB were 
fair to apply a default and they gave appropriate notice in the form of a letter to do so.
Mr O didnt agree. In summary he said;
The letters TSB sent werent enough because hed received misinformation from 
TSBs representatives;
TSB refused further payments to be made after he paid the first £80;
TSB didnt send a default notice letter.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think TSB have done anything wrong. I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to Mr O  so Ive explained my decision further below.
The account closure 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr O decided to stop banking with TSB, he wouldnt have to explain why. TSB can only 
close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. TSB have relied on and complied with the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Os account. Having looked at the information provided by TSB, Im satisfied that TSB 
was entitled to close the account immediately. 
TSB exercised their right to no longer offer Mr O banking facilities and I've seen nothing to 
suggest that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything 
differently. 
The overdraft
TSB made the commercial decision to close Mr Os account with immediate notice  which 
also meant TSB cancelled the overdraft facilities on Mr Os account. TSB are entitled to do 
this. Overdraft facilities are repayable on demand. This means TSB can at any time ask 
Mr O to repay the full overdraft balance. Thats what has happened here  so I cant 
reasonably say TSB are at fault.
Refusal to accept payments towards the overdraft balance
Mr O says TSB wouldnt accept payments towards his overdraft balance. Ive listened to 
relevant call recordings between TSB and Mr O  and like the investigator, I dont agree TSB 
refused any payments. Most of the conversations relate to Mr Os credit card  which doesnt 
form part of this complaint and therefore I havent considered or commented on these 
conversations as part of this decision.
On 11 September 2019, during a conversation about the overdraft, TSB informed Mr O no 
payment plans could be considered because the account was closed. Im satisfied TSB 
removed the block from Mr Os account to allow the overdraft to be repaid in full later on in 
the month, but the only payment made towards the overdraft was £80.
I recognise Mr O asked about a repayment plan, so it was unlikely he was ever able to afford 
to repay the overdraft in full. But that doesnt mean TSB did anything wrong by asking for it. 
And I dont consider £80 towards a debt of around £2,500 is reasonable to prevent any 
further formal action. So, I cant fairly say TSB were unfair for continuing with the default 
process.
The default notice
Ive thought about the default notice and Mr Os comments that the letters TSB sent him 
werent enough. Ive considered the letters, and the content of them carefully. The letters 
include informing Mr O that the overdraft was going to be removed, notices about the 
outstanding debt and the consequences of not paying the debt. These letters were sent to 
the registered address of Mr O so Im satisfied TSB fulfilled their duty to send the 
correspondence they were required to.
It therefore follows that overall, Im satisfied TSB have acted fairly. They were entitled to 
close the account and ask Mr O to repay the overdraft in full. And when they didnt receive 
sufficient payment from Mr O  and after informing Mr O of those consequences, they 
applied a default. Having considered the evidence, I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances and therefore I wont be asking TSB to do anything differently.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman