DRN-4073313
The complaint
Miss R complains about the settlement that Haven Insurance Company Limited offered her 
for the total loss of her car following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Miss R is 
represented in this matter by Mr B, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Miss Rs car was damaged in an accident whilst Mr B was driving, and she made a claim on 
her policy. Haven offered her £5,849, less the policy excess and outstanding premium and a 
deduction of £480 for the cars lack of a service history, in settlement of her claim. Miss R 
was unhappy with this. Mr B thought he couldnt replace the car for this amount. He thought 
the car was top specification, that Haven hadnt taken into account the cars model, and he 
thought it was worth close to £12,000. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Havens 
assessment of the cars market value was too low. He thought it was unfair for it to make a 
deduction for the service history as this wasnt important due to the cars age. So he thought 
Haven should increase its market value to £5,847.50, less deductions for the policy excess 
and outstanding premium, and pay interest on the difference between this and its initial 
payment.
Haven agreed to do this. But Mr B replied that he didnt think the settlement was enough. He 
thought the valuation had been based on a lower engine size, hed seen similar cars 
advertised for higher prices, and hed spent money making sure the car was in top notch 
condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss R wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. Mr B said hed 
seen similar cars advertised for about £12,000 and so he was disappointed with Havens 
offer. I can see the car was stated as worth £7,500 on the insurance schedule. But Miss Rs 
policy isnt an agreed value policy. The policy provides for the cars market value in the case 
of its total loss. I can see that on page 10 of the policy booklet Haven explains that:
If We consider Your Car is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident or incident 
covered by this insurance, subject to clause 11 below We will provide the owner of Your Car 
with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting the Excess.
And so Haven isnt obliged to provide Miss R with a settlement based on the cars stated 
value, but on its market value. The Investigator has explained this services approach to car 
valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Havens settlement offer was too low. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use for cars 
of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional extras as Miss Rs car at the 
date of its loss. 
Mr B was concerned that Haven and the Investigator hadnt taken into account the cars 
specification. But I can assure him that Ive checked this, and the valuations were based on 
the correct engine size, the cars good condition, and no deductions were made for pre-
existing damage. 
Mr B said hed spent significant sums maintaining the car, including new tyres. But we 
consider this to be maintenance, and this would maintain the cars value, not increase it. The 
car was 15 years old, and so the Investigator thought the lack of a service history wouldnt 
lessen its value. And Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
approach. I note that Haven has also accepted this point. 
Mr B said hed seen similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The Investigator found valuations for the car in three of the motor trade guides we use. In 
keeping with our approach he discarded one as an outlier, which Im satisfied was correct as 
this was significantly out of keeping with the other two valuations.
He then took an average of the two remaining valuations. The average of these was 
£5,847.50. And I agree that Havens offer with the £480 deduction was too low as it wasnt 
fair and reasonable. And I think it should increase this to £587.50. And, as Miss R has been 
without her money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to the difference 
between the initial and final payments. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to increase the market value of Miss Rs car to 
£5,847.50 and pay Miss R the difference between this and its initial market value. It should 
add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of its initial 
payment until the date of settlement.
If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give Miss R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman