DRN-1457447
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) allowed him to exceed the credit limit on his 
credit card and then applied charges to his account and removed the promotional rate.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr B and Virgin, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr B had a credit card with Virgin which had the benefit of a promotional 0% rate of interest. 
The credit limit on the account was £12,500. On the 28 November 2018 he completed a 
transaction for £6,324.64 which took him beyond his credit limit. As a result Virgin removed 
the promotional rate and applied an over limit charge.
Mr B is unhappy that Virgin didnt tell him he had exceeded his limit and thinks that the 
applied interest and charges, and the loss of the promotional rate is unfair. Virgin says they 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account and have rejected his complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with Virgins final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Virgin 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Virgin acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Virgin has done anything wrong. Ill explain 
why.
When Mr B opened his credit card account Virgin provided him with the terms and conditions 
of the account. These regulate the way in which the account is operated. Those terms and 
conditions make it clear that;If we do not receive the minimum payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement 
period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the current standard 
interest rate that applied to that transaction.
They also state;
 
You are responsible for checking your statement each month. You must tell us 
straightaway if you do not receive a statement when you expect one, you are not able 
to access your statement or you think something on your statement is wrong.
The effect of this is that the responsibility for managing to keep the account under the credit 
limit lay with Mr B not Virgin, and so I cant say that it would be reasonable for Virgin to be 
monitoring all their customers accounts to check they dont go over the limit. Additionally, 
every month Virgin notify those customers who register for their online service that their 
statement is available to view, which means Mr B did have all the information he needed to 
know what the balance was on his account prior to making the transaction.
And I think it is reasonable to allow a customer to go over their limit by a small amount, 
because that is probably what most customers would expect, rather than strict adherence to 
a very definite figure. Virgin has explained their policy in allowing the credit limit to be 
exceeded on occasion, and I think that is a reasonable approach. In Mr Bs case he 
exceeded the limit by £32.21, so I think given that the transaction which took him over the 
limit was for £6,324.64, allowing it to be exceeded by that small amount was reasonable.
And I think Virgin was entitled by virtue of the terms and conditions to impose the over limit 
charge since that is what Mr B agreed to. And it follows that he also agreed to the ending of 
the promotional rate if he exceeded his limit.
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Virgin has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here since all they did was stick to the agreed terms and 
conditions, which Mr B agreed to and was made aware of. So Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Virgin Money plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman