DRN-4112279
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam. 
What happened
Mr H is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr H throughout this decision.
Mr H says that he met someone Ill refer to in this decision as J on a dating website in June 
2022 and they started to communicate and develop a relationship. Initially J and Mr H got to 
know each other but soon after, J started to ask Mr H for money  which he sent from an 
account with another bank. Initially the funds were to help J with living expenses as she said 
shed been affected by the pandemic. 
In July 2022 Mr H received an email from someone who said he was a solicitor who was 
acting for J. He asked for Mr Hs help in receiving 150kg of gold bars that were with a 
security company in Asia. The solicitor said he needed a trusted person to claim the gold 
consignment on Js behalf. 
On 7 July 2022 Mr H said he didnt want to continue with the relationship with J because he 
didnt think it was appropriate for J to harass him for money. But J continued to communicate 
with Mr H and discussed a deal she was involved in to import and sell cosmetic products. I 
understand that J told Mr H that she didnt have a bank account because of her poor credit 
rating but had signed a contact with a company Ill refer to as C that was due to pay her 
95,000 USD for her cosmetic products. J provided a copy of this contract to Mr H. She told 
Mr H she would gain a profit of 55,000 USD. 
At the end of July 2022 Mr H said he had decided to block J because she was constantly 
demanding cash, and this was the behaviour of an online scammer. At the same time, Mr H 
pointed out numerous errors with the contract with C that J had provided and concluded that 
it was unlikely to originate from a genuine company. Mr H also noted that Js solicitor wasnt 
practicing legally in the UK. 
But after this J kept contacting Mr H. Mr H asked her questions about the contract with C 
and her obligations. J then asked Mr H for £3,500 for a certificate. Mr H questioned the cost 
and the fact J told him it was being delivered overnight on a flight. He also asked if J had 
email correspondence from the organisation that was due to provide the certificate, but J 
said she didnt. Im uncertain if Mr H paid this amount from another account but it doesnt 
form part of this complaint. Mr H did tell J on 1 August that he didnt want to be involved with 
her anymore, but she continued to communicate with him and told him she loved him. J also 
provided Mr H with certificates dated 3 August 2022 from the Food and Drug Administration. 
On 4 August 2022 J told Mr H that she needed another certificate that cost £1,860. She 
asked Mr H to send this amount to the account of a manager who was helping her with the 
application. Mr H asked to speak to the manager directly, but this didnt happen. Shortly 
afterwards, J told Mr H the cost had increased to £3,860 so J needed another £2,000 to get 
the documents. Mr H paid £2,000 from his account with Santander. The following day J said 
there was a further amount of £1,870 to be paid to clear stock from the airport. There is a 
debit of £1,900 from Mr Hs Santander account on this day so I think its likely this is what the 
payment related to. 
J continued to ask Mr H for money and on 11 August 2022 he called Santander to report a 
scam. He had made two payments from his Santander account  for £2,000 and £1,900.
Santander considered Mr Hs complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) and said that liability should be split between 
Santander and Mr H. This was because Santander didnt provide sufficient warnings when 
the payments were made but Mr H didnt take reasonable steps to check that the person he 
was paying was legitimate.
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that Santander do 
anything more. This was because he didnt think Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing J 
was legitimate.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. In summary, he said:
- Scammers in romance scams play on victims emotions and make it harder for them 
to spot red flags. 
- He was given fake documentation that looked legitimate and supported what J was 
saying. 
- J gave him a copy of her passport to build trust.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr H is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Santander are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to 
be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for him to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Under the CRM Code, a bank may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Santander has accepted responsibility for 50% of Mr Hs loss so I do not need to consider 
whether Santander met the standards expected of it under the CRM Code. So Ive gone on 
to consider whether Mr H had a reasonable basis for belief as set out above. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Santander has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr H made are enough to support its position 
that it can choose to rely on an exception to reimbursement. I dont think Mr H had a 
reasonable basis for believing J was legitimate and will explain why. Before J introduced her business relationship with C, Mr H received an email from someone 
purporting to be a solicitor who asked for Mr Hs help with claiming a consignment of gold. 
When Mr H asked why his help was needed, he was told that Js late father wanted a foreign 
beneficiary to claim the gold as he didnt want J to use it or invest it in Asia. This story wasnt 
believable, and Mr H asked various questions because of his concerns. He also established 
that the solicitor wasnt practicing legally. So I consider the interaction Mr H had ought 
reasonably to have made him more cautious in his subsequent dealings with J. 
There are numerous indications in the messages and emails Mr H exchanged with J that he 
had concerns about her requests for money and whether they were legitimate. By the time 
Mr H made these payments from his Santander account his concerns had reached their 
peak and his relationship with J wasnt good. I have listed below some of the comments Mr 
H made before and around the time of the payments:
7 July 2022
I dont think it is appropriate in any way for you to be harassing me for money in the way 
you are.
1 August 2022
Its completely inappropriate to be asking for money in this way. I dont want to do this or be 
involved with you anymore  
Im tired of second guessing your motivations and trying to work out if you are genuine 
theres always another demand.
4 August 2022 
Our relationship is about as stable as a 3 legged chair at the moment. 
5 August 2022
I cant do this any more. Im only connected to your life through this appand you expect 
me to support you financially. 
You are the most manipulative and down right awful person that Ive ever met
Never contact me again
Im going to the police
Im also not satisfied that J took steps to persuade Mr H that she was telling the truth or to 
restore his faith in her and in their relationship. At the time Mr H made the relevant payments 
the majority of the messages J sent related to her business and the need for funds.
I dont consider that the documents J provided to Mr H were persuasive enough to overcome 
his concerns. Mr H had significant issues with the contract J sent to him about the sale of 
cosmetics products. He set these concerns out in detail to J. They primarily related to 
inconsistencies in Cs address. Mr H went on to say, This tells me that this contract is 
unlikely to originate from a genuine company. 
J provided Mr H with a copy of her passport. But Mr H noted that it was out of date and 
asked J questions about how she could stay in the United States if her passport was out of 
date. So I dont think that the provision of Js passport built trust between them. 
Mr H also questioned the original premise of the scam  that J didnt have a bank account 
because of a low credit score. He said that anyone can have a bank account and a low 
credit score was relevant to credit. Mr H even did some research and provided J with a link 
to information about opening a bank account. 
Throughout his relationship with J, Mr H questioned what she told him about her new 
business venture and the reasons for her payment requests. When J said a certificate was 
being flown to her overnight Mr H pointed out that it would be quicker and cheaper to scan the certificate, Mr H asked if J had corresponded with the organisation issuing the 
certificates by email, and later when Mr H asked to speak to the person J said was helping 
her to get the relevant certificates. Js reasons at each point werent persuasive. Mr H didnt 
ask for things like invoices showing the amounts J was asking him to pay though or for other 
evidence.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr H never spoke to J or saw her on a video and 
the fact that although J told Mr H payments were for certificates to enable her to trade the 
two payments he made from his Santander account were to an individual and not to the 
organisation concerned. I dont consider a plausible explanation for this was provided to Mr 
H. 
Taking into account all the evidence Ive been provided with, I dont consider Mr H had a 
reasonable basis to believe J was legitimate when he made the two payments I am 
considering from his Santander account. 
Santander should contact the bank that received Mr Hs funds as soon as possible after the 
scam was reported to try to recover any funds that remain. The evidence I have seen shows 
that Santander did so, but no funds remained to return to Mr H. I dont think Santander could 
have done anything more. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about this cruel scam, I cant reasonably ask Santander to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman