DRN-2978113
The complaint
Miss D has complained about the settlement offered by Fairmead Insurance Limited for a 
claim she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ds property suffered an escape of water in February 2021. This was due to a blocked 
neighbours drain which caused her toilet to back up and overflow, damaging her bathroom, 
hallway, landing and the kitchen below.
Miss D raised a claim with Fairmead, the underwriter of her insurance policy. It instructed 
various experts and contractors to support with assessing and settling the claim. 
Fairmead paid for Miss Ds property to be cleaned and sanitised. At Miss Ds request, it 
produced a cash settlement offer for the remainder of the claim. The settlement amount 
calculated was £2,344.78. This amount included the cost of putting right the damage 
Fairmead says was caused by the escape of water and an amount to cover alternative 
accommodation while the repair works were carried out.
Miss D disputes the value of the settlement Fairmead has offered because it doesnt include 
costs associated with replacement of the underfloor heating in the kitchen. Shes also 
unhappy that Fairmead didnt provide alternative accommodation while her property was 
soaked with sewage water and with the overall time taken with her claim.
Fairmead says the underfloor heating wasnt damaged by the escape of water, but rather a 
previous leak from a dishwasher or by rats chewing through the wiring. Miss D confirms that 
there was a dishwasher leak. But she says her underfloor heating continued to function after 
this leak and only stopped working after the escape of water from her toilet.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ds complaint. She thought it should be partially 
upheld. She thought Fairmeads decision not to cover the underfloor heating was 
reasonable, in light of the available evidence. But she thought Fairmead ought to have 
provided alternative accommodation for the period where Miss Ds property had been 
damaged by sewage water and not yet sanitised. She said the fact that Miss D and her 
young children had to live in the property for this period would have been understandably 
distressing. So, she recommended that Fairmead should pay Miss D £700 compensation.
Neither side accepted our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on behalf of 
Fairmead. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to Fairmead, by name, in this decision even 
when referring to the actions of its agents or representatives.
It isnt in dispute that Miss Ds property has suffered damaged caused by an escape of 
water, or that this is covered by her policy. What remains in dispute is whether Fairmeads 
decision not to cover the damage to Miss Ds underfloor heating is fair and reasonable. And 
whether Fairmead should pay Miss D any compensation for the time it took to settle her 
claim and/or its decision not to offer any alternative accommodation prior to sanitising her 
property. For ease of reference, Ill address each separately.
Underfloor heating
Fairmeads appointed surveyor attended Miss Ds property on 2 March 2021 and compiled 
his report on the damage. The surveyors report mentions that Miss D advised she had 
recently had a leak from her dishwasher caused by rats chewing through the pipework. The 
surveyors report said this leak is what damaged the underfloor heating, not the escape of 
water that is the subject of this claim.
Miss D denies that she told the surveyor that her underfloor heating was damaged by the 
dishwasher leak. She says it remained working until the incident with the upstairs toilet.
Fairmead later instructed a loss adjuster to assess the claim and produce a further report on 
the damage and required repairs. With regard to the underfloor heating, this report states:
The insured is claiming damage to the under floor heating in the kitchen which is no 
longer working, insured advised that BVS said this was due to an unrelated 
dishwasher leak which was caused by Rats chewing through the dishwasher pipe 
work, insured disputes this. I have inspected the kitchen, there is no visible damage 
to the floor tiles, no cracks etc, the walls also show no water marks to these which 
would have indicated water running down the walls and therefore possibly breaching 
the perimeter of the tiles. It would be my recommendation that the floor tiles and 
underfloor heating in the kitchen is not included in the claim due to the lack of 
evidence this is claim related. It would be my suggestion that if the dishwasher leak 
did not cause the underfloor heating to fail it could be that the vermin have chewed 
through the wiring for the underfloor heating, I would recommend that insurers do not 
accept the flooring and underfloor heating
My role here isnt to establish the cause of damage to the underfloor heating. But rather to 
decide whether Fairmeads decision not to cover the damage was in line with the policy 
terms and that it was fair in the particular circumstances of this case. 
I understand Miss D feels strongly that Fairmeads initial surveyor has lied about the content 
of their discussions around the dishwasher leak, and Ive carefully considered everything she 
has said about this. But as I wasnt there, Ill not be able to determine with any certainty what 
was or wasnt said during this visit. In situations like this, where evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ill make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is 
more likely, based on the remaining available evidence.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward by both sides regarding 
this issue. Having done so its the loss adjusters report, from April 2021, which I find most 
persuasive, as opposed to either sides comments on the initial surveyors visit. I say this 
because the loss adjusters report gives clear reasoning to support the conclusion that the 
escape of water was unlikely to be the cause of the damage to the underfloor heating. It 
highlights that there was no damage to the kitchen flooring or evidence of water running 
down the walls  which the loss adjuster suggests she would expect to see if the water from 
the escape had breached the kitchen flooring.This report also suggests an alternative cause of damage to the underfloor heating (the rats) 
which seems highly plausible given the dishwasher pipe was damaged in this way. So, 
taking into account all the available evidence, on balance, it seems that the damage to the 
underfloor heating was most likely not related to the escape of water that is the subject of 
this claim. 
It follows that I think Fairmeads decision not to cover this damage was both in line with the 
policy terms and fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Alternative accommodation and compensation
The terms and conditions of Miss Ds policy state:
If your home is made uninhabitable by any insured cause we will pay for:
 Loss of any rents receivable or payable, including up to two years ground rent.
 Additional accommodation expenses incurred by your household until your home is 
restored to normal living conditions including costs
Fairmead says that Miss Ds property wasnt uninhabitable because she still had use of her 
bathroom and kitchen, so it didnt offer alternative accommodation. It says any alleged loss 
of heating wasnt related to the claim as the boiler was well away from the leak and the 
damage to the underfloor heating wasnt claim related.
Ive thought carefully about Fairmeads arguments here. I accept from the pictures and 
reports that Miss D would have retained use of her key facilities and I also accept that any 
issues with the heating were, on balance, not claim related. However, I dont agree that this 
means the property wasnt uninhabitable  for a period of time.
Miss D made her claim on 27 February 2021 and the initial surveyors visit was on 
2 March 2021. This confirmed that the property had been damaged by black water (sewage) 
and that the property required cleaning and sanitisation. This didnt happen until 
11 March 2021.
Its well documented that exposure to black water can be harmful to health. So, I think it 
could be argued that the property was uninhabitable, as a result of the escape of water, until 
sanitisation was completed. But even if certain parts of the property being saturated in black 
water isnt enough for Fairmead to accept the property was uninhabitable, I think the fact that 
the black water ran into, and caused damage to, Miss Ds kitchen should be. I say this 
because, while I accept that the cooking and cleaning facilities were technically working, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Miss D wouldnt be comfortable preparing food for her 
family until the kitchen had been fully sanitised  in line with the recommendations of 
Fairmeads surveyors report.
I also note that Miss D requested alternative accommodation on several occasions and 
made reference to black water in her kitchen. So, its clear she had concerns about the 
condition of the kitchen and about her and her young children continuing to live in the 
property prior to sanitisation. 
Taking everything into account, I agree that Fairmead ought to have offered alternative 
accommodation between the initial surveyors visit and the completion of sanitisation. And 
because it didnt, I think Miss D has suffered avoidable distress and inconvenience. Ill 
consider the impact of this below.Ive also thought about Miss Ds concerns with the length of time the claim took settle. But 
from what Ive seen the claim progressed largely as I would have expected. Fairmead 
quickly instructed a surveyor to help assess the claim and contractors to carry out asbestos 
testing, cleaning and sanitisation works. 
The fact that the claim needed to be handed from the surveyor to the loss adjuster did add to 
the time taken. But I think Miss D contributed to this timescale by refusing to provide certain 
information and by sending numerous, unsavoury text messages to Fairmeads agents.
That said, there was a period of around one week from the receipt of the asbestos test 
results, on 12 March 2021, where the claim doesnt appear to have been progressing as 
quickly as it could have been, and where Miss D wasnt being kept appropriately updated. 
And by this point I think it ought to have been clear to Fairmead how important this claim 
was to Miss D and how crucial it was to keep her updated on its progress. This will have 
added to Miss Ds distress and frustration.
Miss D has explained the significant impact this claim has had on her. But I should clarify 
here that Fairmead isnt responsible for the fact the escape of water happened, or the impact 
that this had. A claim of this nature will always be distressing for the policyholder, but that 
alone doesnt mean the insurer has done anything wrong. 
However, as Ive explained, I do think Fairmead has contributed to the distress and 
inconvenience Miss D has experienced by failing to provide alternative accommodation prior 
to sanitisation and through the small delay its responsible for. So, taking into account the 
impact of these issues, I think Fairmead should compensate Miss D.
Ive thought carefully about the amount I think Fairmead should pay Miss D. Having done so, 
I think the £700 compensation recommended by our investigator is enough to fairly 
compensate Miss D for the impact of the issues which Fairmead is solely responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part.
To put things right, Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay Miss D £700.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman