DRN-3344852
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2014, Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ws behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £7,795 to mislead Mr W, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £15,251;
Mr W was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,016.76 but was not made 
aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of 
£491.16;
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost Mr W a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said that the financial returns from the 
system were much less than P had told Mr W they would be in the sales documentation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled System Performance and 
Returns. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ws recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr W makes it clear that the overall cost 
of the system is £15,251.40. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the amount 
of credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr W more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr W has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr W has said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr W could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr W could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £511.70.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr W could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £234.56 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr W, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £866.88. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr W entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £84.73. For each year of the 15 
year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. This gives a negative value for the first four years.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
This table was referred to by the CMC in its response to the adjudicators opinion, and so it 
is convenient to summarise the CMCs point about it here.
The CMC calculated that Mr W had actually incurred a shortfall of about £60 a month, which 
is obviously much more than the shortfall figures set out in the first four years of the table, of 
which the highest is £12.49 per month. The CMC therefore argued that this table was itself a 
misrepresentation, as if Mr W had relied on it and expected to make a return on his 
investment from year five, then he would have been induced to enter into the contract, only 
to incur a far greater expense than he would have had reason to expect. It would actually 
take much longer than five years for the benefits of the system to begin to cover the loan 
repayments.
I will answer this point later, under the sub-heading Performance.
Self-funding
Ill first consider whether P told Mr W that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance over 20 years. This shows that it would take eight years for the 
overall benefits that Mr W could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
(This also shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that Mr W could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £15,251.)
So Im satisfied that P told Mr W that the system would pay for its cash price in 8 years, and 
for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the tables above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, 
and he subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a misrepresentation. I have 
considered whether it actually does amount to a misrepresentation in the next section.
Performance
Ive considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,004 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ws FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,983 kWh a year. This is only very slightly less than estimated by P at the point 
of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
However, I accept the CMCs observation that Mr W has still not received the financial 
returns he was expecting, as described above. Even though the panels are not under-
performing in terms of FIT generation, as measured in kWh, they have not performed as 
estimated as measured in pounds sterling. So I have considered why that is.
To do so, I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and found that the increases have been lower than was predicted by P at the point of 
sale. I think this explains why Mr W hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr W could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr W entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman