DRN-3495421
The complaint
Mr K says My Finance Club Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three payday loans My Finance Club provided to Mr K between 
March 2021 and July 2021. Mr Ks lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Amount Term (days) Expected 
Repayment 
DateExpected 
Repayment
Amount
1 28/03/2021 £200.00 30 27/04/2021 £248.00
2 23/06/2021 £400.00 38 31/07/2021 £521.60
3 22/07/2021 £300.00 28 19/08/2021 £367.20
Mr K repaid loan one two days late. And loan two was repaid two weeks early, so it didnt 
overlap with loan three. From what I can see, Mr K didnt make any repayments for loan 
three and so an amount remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
My Finance Club asked Mr K for information about his income and outgoings. Mr K said his 
monthly income was between £1,627 and £2,054 across his loans, which My Finance Club 
said it validated with his bank. He said his monthly outgoings, including credit, ranged 
between £1,150 and £1,500. So this left him with a disposable income of between £477 and 
£614 to meet his loan repayments. After deducting his expected repayments from these 
amounts, Mr K looked to have sufficient disposable income to repay his loans sustainably. 
My Finance Club also carried out credit checks for each of Mr Ks loan applications. From 
what I can see, these checks didnt show anything untoward that should have prompted 
further checks. 
I think these affordability checks were sufficient and proportionate for Mr Ks three loans. 
From them, Mr K looked to be able to repay his loans sustainably. So I cant say it was 
wrong for My Finance Club to have provided the loans. 
Mr K thought My Finance Club should have conducted further checks, such as asking for his 
bank statements or wage slips. And I can see that Mr K has provided his bank statements 
for us to consider. 
I accept that Mr Ks actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information My Finance Club obtained. And Mr Ks actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But My Finance Club could only make its decision based on the information it had available 
at the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr K, I dont think 
it had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Mr K. In these circumstances, I dont think My Finance Club needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think My Finance Club carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Ks actual 
financial position. 
My Finance Club relied on the information it was provided with and given the amounts of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Ks declared income and Mr K only taking three loans, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. 
From what I can see, Mr K still hasnt made any repayments for loan three. I can see that My 
Finance Club at one stage offered to arrange an affordable repayment plan with him. I 
remind My Finance Club that we expect it to take a positive and sympathetic approach 
towards consumers who tell it they are experiencing financial difficulties. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman