DRN-4255737
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In summer 2020, Mr K received about £2,500 for the sale of his cryptocurrency.
Bank of Scotland says it received a report that the funds Mr K received were fraudulent. It 
froze Mr Ks account. Mr K offered to provide proof of the sale, but instead Bank of Scotland 
closed his accounts and registered a CIFAS marker against him. They also took £2,372.94 
of Mr Ks money and transferred it back to the original sender.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They thought 
Bank of Scotland should remove the marker, refund the money they took plus compensatory 
interest, and pay a further £300 compensation.
Neither side agreed. Mr K felt the compensation wasnt enough. Bank of Scotland agreed to 
remove the marker but felt it acted correctly in taking Mr Ks money.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr K and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on 11 July 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree the marker should be removed, though Ive made a 
higher award than our investigator. Ill explain why.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Bank of 
Scotland needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show 
that it had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed 
or attempted, backed up by evidence rigorous enough to support the matter being reported 
to the authorities.
CIFAS and our service have been clear that in situations like this, banks must investigate 
things first and give customers the opportunity to explain their conduct before filing to the 
National Fraud Database. Indeed, CIFAS go on to specify that customers should be given 
sufficient time to respond before any submission, and that businesses should try more than 
one method of contact.
As far as I can see, Bank of Scotland did not investigate things properly with Mr K at the 
time. Mr K offered more than once to show that the funds came from a legitimate sale, but it 
appears that Bank of Scotland did not take him up on this and instead simply registered the 
marker without investigating further. This is a point of serious concern. CIFAS markers can 
have severe effects, and must not be added without serious consideration.
I should also note that Bank of Scotland has declined to provide us with the fraud report it 
says it relied on, so I cant even be sure that it had any basis on which to be concerned in 
the first place.
On the other hand, Mr K has provided:
proof of the sale of his cryptocurrency
his chat history with the buyer
logs from the platform showing that the buyer was using an established account with 
their real name and a verified phone number and email address
his transaction log showing that he did indeed provide the purchased cryptocurrency
his conversation with the platforms support team, where they confirmed the sale, 
offered to correspond with Mr Ks bank if it contacted them, and confirmed theyd 
since banned the buyer.
It is clear that Mr K was entitled to these funds. And this would have become clear to Bank of 
Scotland had it carried out any reasonable investigation in 2020. It seems whats most likely 
happened is that either a fraudster used someone elses money to buy crypto from Mr K 
without Mr K knowing anything was wrong, or that a false fraud report was submitted. Either 
way, its clear that Mr K was innocent. So not only did Bank of Scotland not meet the basis of 
evidence needed to register this marker, it was in fact wholly unjustified in registering it.
Bank of Scotland feels it was entitled to give Mr Ks money to the original sender, arguing 
that Mr K was not entitled to the money, there was fraud, and it had an indemnity from the 
sending bank.
As above, Mr K was entitled to the money  he got it from a genuine sale, where he provided 
what was bought. So Bank of Scotland is wrong there. As before, it hasnt actually shown 
that there was any fraud here. But even if I assume there was, there would be no justification 
in leaving Mr K deprived of both his goods and the money paid for his goods here  he didnt 
defraud anyone. To put it bluntly, Bank of Scotland cannot simply steal an innocent partys 
money, even if its nominally to help another innocent party.
Bank of Scotland did not have any entitlement to take Mr Ks money. While there are terms 
about returning mistaken payments, those dont apply here  this wasnt an issue of a 
payment being made by accident, but of alleged fraud. I also accept that, generally 
speaking, banks should try to return money that was sent because of fraud. But before doing 
so, they must first investigate and find out whether the recipient was acting fraudulently 
themselves or not  which Mr K was not. And while Bank of Scotland may have had an 
indemnity from the sending bank, thats just a promise between two banks  it does not allow 
Bank of Scotland to take customers money if it otherwise shouldnt.I find that Bank of Scotland was not entitled to take £2,372.94 of Mr Ks own money, and that 
it did so without Mr Ks consent  meaning this was unauthorised. So Bank of Scotland must 
reimburse Mr K for this money. It will also need to add simple interest, to compensate Mr K 
for the time he was without his money.
Mr K questioned the rate of compensatory interest we use  8% simple. I understand his 
point that inflation has at points been higher than that. But the rate of compensatory interest 
is not based on inflation. Its a statutory rate from the courts, which is there to compensate 
someone for the time they didnt have their money. We dont know what Mr K would have 
done with the £2,372.94 had he not been deprived of it in 2020. He may have saved it and 
earned substantially less interest than 8% simple works out to, or he may have paid down a 
higher rate debt, or spent it, or anything else. We cannot know for certain. So instead of 
guessing, I think its reasonable to award the statutory rate of compensatory interest, as the 
courts do in similar situations.
Mr K also set out some consequential losses he said he suffered because of the marker, and 
Im grateful to him for doing so. Some of these relate to sign-up bonuses he says he missed 
out on due to Bank of Scotlands CIFAS marker. It think its too difficult to conclude that this 
particular marker definitely caused those particular losses. Lenders usually have specific 
criteria, which Mr K may not have met in those cases anyway; he had other significant 
negative information on his credit file such as defaults; and Santander had also registered a 
CIFAS marker against him in relation to this matter. Of course, I do acknowledge that CIFAS 
markers often have very substantial effects on ones credit. So its most likely that Bank of 
Scotlands did have a significant effect here, and likely did substantially contribute to Mr Ks 
troubles in getting credit, or having his limits reduced. I also see that Mr K had some of his 
accounts closed, even long-standing ones, following this marker being registered  which is 
very likely to be linked. Ive factored that all into the award.
Much of the costs also relate to Mr Ks case with Santander. I understand Mr K feels that 
Bank of Scotland are responsible for Santanders CIFAS marker and subsequent actions. 
But businesses are responsible for their own actions. I cannot reasonably hold Bank of 
Scotland responsible for a separate businesss own decisions.
I do find that Bank of Scotland treated Mr K exceptionally poorly here, and its disregard for 
its obligations has led to it reporting an innocent party on the National Fraud Database. It 
also effectively closed Mr Ks accounts immediately  as they were blocked straight away  
so it did not give him the proper notice there. I understand that this also caused Mr K some 
real inconvenience.
I find that Bank of Scotland is responsible for causing substantial distress, upset and worry 
to Mr K over a very lengthy period. It likely contributed significantly to his credit troubles, and 
caused him serious embarrassment at being falsely labelled as having attempted fraud. Ive 
taken into account that some of this blame is shared by Santander, who also registered a 
marker in relation to this matter. And I have kept in mind that we are not the regulator  
were here to resolve complaints informally, not to issue fines or punish businesses. Taking 
into account our guidelines for compensation and the impact Bank of Scotlands actions 
likely had on Mr K, I find that £950 compensation would be fair to put things right here.
Since Santanders marker was based on the same incident, I also think Bank of Scotland 
should contact Santander as a matter of urgency to let them know that it has found Mr K did 
nothing wrong. That will help sort things out for Mr K. I will also forward Santander a copy of 
the final decision I make in this case.I also think Bank of Scotland should provide Mr K with a letter confirming its error. That way, 
Mr K can provide the letter to lenders who turned him down or reduced his limits, and he 
may be able to get those decisions reconsidered. With that said, Mr K should probably hold 
off from doing so until both CIFAS markers have been fully removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Bank of Scotland agreed to the redress in order to 
resolve things. It confirmed it was in the process of removing its fraud marker. It asked that if 
Mr K accepts the decision, could he provide either his account number and sort code (if he 
prefers to be paid by bank transfer) or his up-to-date address (if he prefers to be paid by 
cheque). It also asked us to pass on the message that parts of the redress may be paid at 
slightly different times if they come from different areas of the business.
Mr K explained that he was grateful for the provisional decision and didnt have any material 
information to add. But he didnt agree that the proposed redress covered his financial and 
non-financial losses.
I understand Mr Ks point of view and appreciate where hes coming from. But as I explained 
in the provisional decision, having gone through his list of proposed financial losses, I found 
that much of it related to things like sign-up bonuses, which we cant fairly say were directly 
caused by Bank of Scotlands CIFAS marker alone  though Ive taken into account that its 
likely the marker had a significant effect.
Another large proportion related to costs incurred from Santanders CIFAS marker 
specifically, and the resulting dispute between Mr K and Santander. I acknowledge that Bank 
of Scotland filed the initial marker, and that Mr K was told to bring his claim against Bank of 
Scotland. But the fact remains that Santander is its own firm, independent from Bank of 
Scotland, which makes its own decisions and chooses its own actions. So Im afraid I cannot 
fairly hold Bank of Scotland responsible for Santanders actions here.
I should reiterate that we are an informal alternative to the courts, so we look at things in a 
slightly different way to the courts, and were not here to issue fines or punish businesses. 
Taking into account our guidelines, Bank of Scotlands role in the matter, and the likely 
contributions that its actions specifically had to Mr Ks trouble and upset, I still find that £950 
compensation is fair to put things right here, in addition to the other redress.
Mr K raised concerns about whether Bank of Scotland would carry out the redress. If Mr K 
accepts the final decision, then it will become legally binding, and Bank of Scotland will be 
required to carry out the redress within 28 days of the date we notify it of his acceptance. 
I hope I can reassure Mr K that Bank of Scotland is a well-established business which is 
used to receiving decisions from our service by now, so I do not foresee any large issues in 
it fulfilling the redress  not least as Bank of Scotland has already agreed to take those 
actions and has already started on removing the marker. I should note that once Bank of 
Scotland removes the marker, it may take a little further time for all the credit reference 
agencies to update on their ends. If Mr K doesnt hear from Bank of Scotland within the 28 
day period, he is welcome to come back to our service and we can chase it up or talk him 
through any enforcement action needed. But I hope that wont be necessary.So having carefully reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for 
the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
I direct Bank of Scotland plc to:
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute, if it has not done so already;
refund the £2,372.94 it took;
pay simple interest to Mr K on that £2,372.94, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr K for the time he didnt have his money;
forward Mr Ks evidence of entitlement to Santander, and inform it that Bank of 
Scotland has rescinded any claim of wrongdoing by Mr K, has found that Mr K was 
an innocent party, and had registered its CIFAS marker in error;
provide Mr K with a letter which confirms that Bank of Scotland registered this CIFAS 
marker in error, that Mr K did not do anything wrong, and that any lending decisions 
made based on that marker may have therefore been incorrect;
pay Mr K £950 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this simple interest. Bank of 
Scotland must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr K may 
be able to claim back the tax if he does not normally pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint, and direct Bank of Scotland plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman