DRN-3326966
The complaint
Mr R complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds offer to settle his motor 
insurance claim is too low.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr R's car was stolen and wasnt recovered. He claimed on his LV motor 
insurance policy. LV accepted the claim. They offered to settle the claim based on a market 
valuation of the car at around £9,200.  Mr R didn't accept that. He felt an appropriate 
valuation would be closer to £15,000. In response LV increased its valuation to around 
£10,670. That wasnt accepted by Mr R. 
LV lodged a complaint from Mr R. In its response it said a senior engineer, having 
considered recent work to the car, raised its market valuation to about £11,175. Mr R wasnt 
satisfied, so came to this service. He still feels LVs market value is too low. 
Our investigator considered Mr R's complaint. He felt LV had come to a fair market 
valuation. Mr R didn't accept that. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy says in the event of theft LV will not pay more than the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of the loss. Market value is defined as the cost of replacing it with another 
of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened. So Ive considered if LVs offer to settle Mr Rs claim is 
fair and in line with these terms.   
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as they are based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than individual adverts. 
LV used three trade guides. The valuations ranged from about £9,140 to around £11,730. 
Ive checked a fourth guide. It gave a higher valuation of £12,864. However, LVs valuation is 
still within the range of all four guides. And it would still be within the range of the highest 
three, if I were to disregard the lowest for being significantly out of line with the others. 
Mr Rs provided a list of internet links to adverts, for cars of the same make and model, he 
feels supports his position that £11,175 is too low. LV said the adverts were for cars with 
significantly lower mileage than Mr Rs, so werent comparable. His had around 133,000 
miles on the clock at the time of loss. So it said they didnt support his argument that its 
valuation was too low.  
Unfortunately the links are out of date, so I havent seen the exact adverts Mr Rs referred to.  
Although the links produced more recent adverts for cars of the same make and model as 
his. Ive also seen adverts, from closer to the date of loss, provided by LV. It does seem 
those with a sale price of around £15,000 have significantly lower mileage than Mr Rs car. 
Ive considered everything Mr Rs provided including the adverts and what hes said about 
engine work to his car. Ive also thought about the current condition of the used vehicle 
market. But Im not persuaded LVs final valuation, particularly when the mileage of Mr Rs 
car is considered, isnt in line with the terms of the policy or is unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman