DRN-3148960
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt refund her money after she fell victim to a 
fraud.
What happened
Ms E decided to invest in mini bonds through a third-party business (Q, a limited company) 
after a friend recommended the investment as having successful returns and finding positive 
reviews online. 
Ms E initially invested £20,000 in January 2020 via a bank transfer to Q. And after receiving 
a number of monthly returns, invested a further £10,000 in June 2020; these were paid via 
a business account in the name of N, a limited company. 
In July 2020 Ms E received a letter from another company claiming that Q had entered into 
liquidation. Ms E began carrying out research and discovered negative reviews of the 
business online. She eventually found a number of other investors online that claimed the 
investment was in fact fraudulent. So, Ms E reported the fraud to Metro. 
Metro investigated Ms Es claim but found it wasnt liable for the two payments made. It 
pointed out that it did intervene in the first payment of £20,000 made to Q and warned Ms E 
that the business wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said that it 
provided sufficient warnings surrounding the potential of the investment being a fraud and 
directed Ms E to carry out research on the business before making the payment. It also 
informed Ms E that if she continued to go ahead with the payment, it wouldnt be liable for it 
if it did transpire to be a fraud. As such, it didnt think it was liable for the payments made. 
Ms E remained unhappy with the decision reached by Metro, so she referred her complaint 
to our service for an independent review. An Investigator considered the evidence provided 
by both parties and concluded that Metro should have reimbursed the money lost. In 
summary, they pointed out that Metro was a voluntary signatory of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). And the starting position within this code is that Miss E 
should be reimbursed unless certain exceptions applied. 
The Investigator considered if Ms E had a reasonable basis for believing she was paying a 
legitimate company and if she ignored any effective warnings given by Metro as part of the 
payment journey. They concluded that neither of these exceptions applied and therefore that 
Metro should provide full reimbursement of the funds lost including 8% simple annual 
interest from the date it decided to decline the claim. 
Metro disagreed. It pointed out that it provided numerous warning to Ms E prior to 
processing the payment around unregulated investments and their links to common frauds. It 
also prompted her to carry out additional research and warned her that once the payment 
was processed, it wouldnt be liable for it. It also made further submissions that as the 
second payment was made to a regulated financial business, and not directly to the 
fraudster, it didnt fall under the scope of the CRM code. 
As Metro disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision.
On 20 October 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint 
and how I was minded to resolve it. The provisional decision read as follows:
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. In consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised payment 
rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud or 
scam.
But that isnt the end of the story. Where a customer made the payment as a 
consequence of the actions of a fraudster, I consider it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer even though that customer authorised 
the payment.
In particular, Metro is a signatory to the CRM Code, which provides additional protection to 
the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams. However, Metro argues that the 
CRM Code should not apply to the second payment Ms E sent. It does not believe Ms E is 
afforded the additional protection of the CRM Code and does not believe it is liable to 
reimburse her for the loss.
In considering this, I have carefully reviewed the relevant material surrounding the scope 
of the CRM Code in relation to this type of payment. That includes the wording of the 
CRM Code, as it stood at the time in question, and its subsequent publications clarifying 
its position on interpretations of the scope.
The CRM Code defines under its scope customers undertaking payment journeys as part 
of an APP scam. This is defined as a transfer of funds executed across faster payments, 
CHAPS or and internal book transfer, authorised by the customer for what they believed to 
be legitimate purposes, but which were in fact a scam.
Metro has treated this matter as a scam and there is no dispute that the transaction 
was made via faster payment and was authorised by Ms E.
The Code further stipulates that the payment journey should be between GBP-
denominated UK-domiciled accounts, by any channel of push payment available to the 
customer, such as branch, on the phone, or online. Again, this criterion has been met.
Ms E transferred the second payment of £10,000 via faster payment to a UK based account 
held in the name of a business that was regulated by the FCA at the time: N. This business 
has since entered into liquidation. At the time Ms E made the payment, N was an 
intermediary for payments between investors and Q. It had an agreement with Q to receive 
payments on its behalf, which were then almost immediately forwarded on by faster 
payment to a UK based bank account in the name of Q.
Ms E never held an account or customer relationship with N, she was merely instructed by 
Q to make payment to it. So, once Ms E made the payment, the funds left her control and 
subsequently fell into the control of the fraudster.I dont find that this elongation of the payment journey excludes the payment Ms E 
made from the CRM code. The code is specific in the types of payments it covers, and 
as Ive highlighted above, these have been met.
The points Ive made above persuade me that the payment made by Ms E from her 
Metro account are covered under the scope of the CRM Code.
Has Metro demonstrated that one or more of the exemptions for reimbursement applies?
The starting position under the CRM Code is that the victim of an APP scam should be 
reimbursed unless certain exceptions apply. These exceptions include the customer 
ignoring an effective warning, by failing to take appropriate action in response, and, the 
customer having made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing it was 
legitimate.
Having considered the arguments made, and the evidence provided, I dont consider Metro 
has been able to establish that any of the CRM Code exceptions to reimbursement can 
fairly be applied here.
Ms E was initially introduced to the investment by a trusted friend who had given positive 
feedback on their experience and assured her that they were receiving regular returns. 
This was clearly a compelling and persuasive factor in Ms Es basis for believing the 
investment was genuine.
Additionally, Ms E describes her introduction to the company as professional. She was 
sent a welcome pack containing professional looking documentation, merchandise and 
returns information: of which I dont find to have been too good to be true.
When Ms E was convinced to begin investing, she attempted to make a £20,000 payment 
to Q, but this was blocked by Metro and contact was made with Ms E. Having listened to 
the call between Ms E and the Metro representative, I cant agree Ms E ignored an 
effective warning for a number of reasons.
During the call, the representative asked Ms E why she was making the payment. Ms E 
responded honestly and told the representative that she was investing in high-risk bonds. 
She also disclosed the name of the business she was investing in. The representative did 
cover off some warnings regarding investment scams. They asked Ms E if shed checked Q 
against the FCA register to ensure they were regulated. Ms E answered that shed not and 
the representative advised her that she should carry out some research before she made 
the payment to ensure the company was legitimate.
Ms E didnt ignore this warning. She agreed that she should carry out more research 
before making the payment, asked the representative to reverse the payment and the call 
was terminated.
Ms E has told our service that she then went away, looked up reviews of the company, of 
which all were positive, and found the company registered on Companies House. Ms E 
acknowledges that Q wasnt regulated, but not all investments are. So, I dont think this 
on its own is enough to say Ms E didnt have a reasonable basis of belief or that she 
ignored Metros warnings. Ms E had carried out a number of diligence checks to ensure 
Q was legitimate and had a recommendation from a trusted friend who had already seen 
the returns promised.
Moving on the second payment of £10,000. Ms E has explained that between her first 
payment in January 2020 and the second payment made six months later, she herself was receiving monthly interest payments from Q; a common feature of investment scams 
used to gain a victims trust. This was broadly in line with the payments shed expected 
over the period and set out in the documentation provided to her when investing. Im 
persuaded that this further reinforced Ms Es belief that shed invested in a legitimate 
business.
Considering the above information, Im not persuaded that Metro has been able to 
demonstrate that one of the exceptions to reimbursement applies here.
Both parties were given until 3 November 2022 to provide any further comment or evidence 
in response to the provisional decision. As that deadline has now passed, Im in a position to 
issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. And both parties have said they 
have no further comment or evidence to provide in relation to this complaint.
As no further comment or evidence needs to be taken into consideration here, I dont intend 
to depart from the directions, and reasons for these directions, set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Metro should have reimbursed the funds Ms E lost, minus the monthly interest payments 
she was receiving from Q between January and June 2020. Ive calculated these as follows:
2020
31.01 - £14.25
28.02 - £61.06
16.03 - £43.62
01.04 - £61.06
30.04 - £61.06
15.05 - £45.12
04.06 - £61.06
Total = £347.23
I dont think Metro would have been able to prevent the payments from taking place 
considering the complexity and persuasiveness of the fraud. So, it should pay the interest 
rate from the saving account where Ms E paid the funds fromgiven as 2.23% per 
annum from the date it rejected the claim rather than the date of the payments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Ms E the two payments made  minus the monthly payments she received 
in returns between January and June 2020 (£347.23).
Pay 2.23% simple annual interest on the sum lost from the date Metro 
rejected Ms Es claim to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman