DRN-3685052
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs J bought solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2015. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mrs J into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent.
Shawbrook explained that it didnt think the system had been misrepresented but it offered 
£200 compensation due to the time it had taken to respond. 
During our investigation Shawbrook said the system had been underperforming  not 
generating the amount of electricity that had been expected as set out in the quote and MCS 
certificate. So, it offered to inspect the system. But it still didnt agree that the system had 
been misrepresented to Mrs J. 
I issued a provisional decision to explain that I was planning to uphold the complaint. This 
gave Shawbrook and Mrs J a chance to respond before I made this final decision. 
Mrs J said she accepted my provisional decision. Shawbrook did not provide a response 
within the deadline I provided. So, this final decision is in line with my provisional decision. 
Im aware that the system has been underperforming. Mrs J did not raise this issue as part of 
this complaint. Shawbrook has indicated it will investigate the underperformance. This 
decision does not deal with this underperformance issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
The contract set out that the benefits of the system would be as follows:
This shows total returns in year one as £975.05. This included feed-in tariff FIT payments 
(generation and export), electricity savings and additional savings from optional extras that 
had been chosen (in this case hot water controller and voltage optimiser). 
The quote set out the year one savings as £975.05, including the optional extras. Theres a 
section headed repayment options with three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 
120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months since this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs J entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table shows the loan is repayable in 120 monthly payments of £79.19. For each year of 
the 10-year loan it shows the expected total return from the system (including FIT income 
and electricity savings including from optional extras). It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £79.19, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
Figures in green are described as monthly profit.
As you can see, the table sets out that in each year of the loan, the benefits will result in a 
monthly profit. However, I think this is misleading because Mrs J paid a deposit of £2,007.00 
on top of borrowing £5,883.00 (plus a £135 admin fee) from Shawbrook. The table above 
doesnt account for this deposit. To be self-funding over the term of the loan, the benefits of 
the system would need to exceed £1,151.10 per year. According to the above table, it would 
not do so until at least year five. 
In addition to this, the total returns quoted on the contract and in the quote (£975.05) in year 
one could not in reality be achieved by the system on account of the voltage optimiser not 
being installed. The system performance and returns section of the quote shows that the 
voltage optimiser accounted for a total of £106.49 of the year one benefit. As such the actual 
expected year one benefits of the system that was actually installed was only £868.56. This 
is less than the annual loan repayment of £950.28. 
Im satisfied that the above misrepresentations induced Mrs J into buying the system on the 
basis that it would be self-funding, which it was not. 
I have seen nothing to suggest that Mrs J was provided with an updated quote before she 
agreed to the system being installed without the voltage optimiser. Nor am I aware of a 
reduction in the price of the system being agreed prior to installation. This means the system 
installed was not the system Mrs J paid for. I think this is a breach of contract on the part of 
the installer, which provides a further reason to uphold this complaint. 
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mrs J fairly and she lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Js complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs J from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs J is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs J by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mrs Js loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs J in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs J have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs J and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs J and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs J accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs J has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs J has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 1. Refund the extra Mrs J paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs J receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs J paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs J receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs J the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs J first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman