DRN-1868918
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) provided him with poor customer service, 
after sending him a money transfer offer but then declining the application. 
What happened
Mr H received a marketing email from BoS which included an offer for a credit card money 
transfer. The offer indicated he would be eligible to transfer £14,000 from his credit card to 
his current account. So he called BoS to take up the offer.   
After going through the application process with an adviser the transfer was declined. Mr H 
felt hed been treated unfairly and that its offer email had mis-led him. He also felt the 
member of staff hed spoke to was rude.  
BoS looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. It explained it declined the money 
transfer application based on its lending criteria. It said that the offers for new products are 
subject to a successful application and not guaranteed. 
BoS couldnt locate a recording of Mr Hs application call. So it didnt know exactly how its 
adviser had handled the call. But based on Mr H description it apologised for any upset 
caused. It also offered to cover his call costs as a goodwill gesture. Mr H wasnt happy with 
this and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought BoS had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said it was entitled to 
use its commercial discretion when making lending decisions, which included the offer Mr H 
had responded to. He also thought it was fair that BoS apologised for any customer service 
issues, as well as refunding his call costs. So, he didnt recommend it do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree, but didnt provide any further commentary or reasons why. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its common practice for a bank to send offers of new products and services to its existing 
customers. Mr H would, at some point, have been given the chance to opt-in or out of 
marketing communications. If he no longer wishes to receive marketing communications, he 
can ask the bank to stop sending them to him.
A credit card money transfer is a form of credit. When a consumer makes an application for 
a product like this, wed expect the bank to carry out the relevant suitability checks. It must 
do this to ensure it is lending responsibly. This usually includes checking a consumers credit 
file, as well as their financial circumstances, to ensure the product is affordable. The bank is entitled to make the final say on who it offers services to and this isnt something 
we interfere with. What Ive considered is whether BoS has treated Mr H fairly when 
considering his application.
Ive seen a sample template that BoS says is representative of the email Mr H wouldve 
seen. This states the offer is subject to status and that BoS will carry out checks. And from 
Mr Hs description, BoS went through these checks with him over the phone. Following this, 
based on its lending criteria, it decided not to agree to the lending. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it unfairly applied this criteria to Mr H.
I can understand Mr H was frustrated as he believed the offer was guaranteed. But put 
simply, it wasnt. Its up to the bank to decide who it lends to, in the same way its up to him 
to decide who he banks with and which marketing offers he responds to. 
BoS has explained that its lending criteria changes over time, so Mr H is free to apply again 
in the future. It also confirmed his credit file was unaffected by the application. So even if I 
felt BoS had mis-led Mr H, which I dont, I cant see hes lost out in any way. 
BoS was unable to provide the phone call in question where Mr H says he was spoken to 
rudely by one of its advisers. Without the call, its difficult for me to know exactly what 
happened. BoS has accepted Mr Hs version of events and apologised. It also offered to 
refund his call costs. 
In the circumstances  given Im satisfied BoS has fairly declined his application for a 
transfer  Im persuaded an apology and an offer to cover call costs is a reasonable outcome 
in the circumstances. So based on all the available information, Im not upholding this 
complaint and not directing BoS to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman