DRN-3446296
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down a private medical insurance 
claim for counselling sessions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA agreed to authorise two sessions with Dr K, and then confirmed it would need to see a 
report if more treatment was needed. The policy terms allow AXA to request additional 
medical information. 
Mrs B then advised AXA that her son needed some diagnostic tests. Whilst she understood 
one of those tests (for dyslexia) wouldnt be covered by the policy, she thought the other test 
should be covered. AXA confirmed it needed more information from Dr K, though based on 
the information later given to it by Mrs B, it thought the test wouldnt be covered under the 
policy.
AXA was entitled to ask for more information from Dr K before making a claims decision 
about the test that Mrs Bs son needed. However, when Mrs B refused to obtain that 
information, AXA made a claims decision based on the information she had given to it. That 
seems reasonable, though I understand this point doesnt form part of Mrs Bs complaint. 
AXA then received an invoice relating to six therapy sessions. AXA didnt know what this 
was for, and so reminded Mrs B that it needed more information from Dr K before it could 
consider a claim for any further treatment. Mrs B then arranged for Dr K to provide more 
information about her sons treatment.  
Dr Ks letter of 7 May 2021 made it clear that Mrs Bs son had been referred to her for 
anxiety. So AXA didnt need the ICD code from Dr K that it requested. I think Mrs B was 
caused some minor inconvenience by this as shed asked Dr K/Dr Ks secretary for the ICD 
code unnecessarily. Though I dont think this warrants any compensation. 
Dr Ks letter also explained that Mrs Bs son had been referred to her associate for six 
sessions of counselling. I understand there was initially some discussion over the fact that 
the counselling was being carried out by a non-recognised specialist and therefore wouldnt 
be covered. Though AXA later explained to Mrs B that counselling would also only be 
covered for over 18s. 
Ive checked the policy terms and its correct that counselling is only covered for members 
over the age of 18. As Mrs Bs son is under 18, I think it was reasonable for AXA to say the 
claim wasnt covered. 
Although I understand Mrs Bs sons counsellor isnt recognised by AXA, I dont think this 
makes any difference to the matter. I say that because counselling for her son isnt covered 
whether its carried out by a recognised practitioner or not, due to his age. 
Mrs B also says that AXA made a mistake regarding the excess. I see that AXA explained 
that it had initially paid an invoice for £300 it had received (for the six therapy sessions) and 
an excess of £50 had been applied. It then cancelled this payment when it realised it had 
advised Mrs B that it needed more information from Dr K before covering further treatment. I 
understand the excess was then reapplied to a later invoice. So Mrs B was still only liable for 
the total policy excess of £150. AXA apologised to Mrs B for the confusion, which I think was 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman