DRN-2745454
The complaint
Mr and Ms Gs complaint is about a mortgage they held with HSBC UK Bank Plc. They are 
unhappy that HSBC wouldnt give them a new mortgage, and so when they moved and paid 
off the mortgage, they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr and Ms G arranged their mortgage with HSBC through an independent mortgage broker. 
The mortgage was for just under £400,000 over a term of 32 years. An interest rate product 
was attached to the mortgage until the end of April 2024. 
The mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage was repaid before April 2024 an ERC 
would be charged. The amount of the ERC would be based on a calculation of 1% of the 
amount repaid for each of the remaining years (pro-rata for partial years) of the interest rate 
product. 
It was also detailed that the loan could be transferred to another property, subject to certain 
requirements. The requirements included HSBC being satisfied about Mr and Ms Gs 
financial status at the time of application and its normal lending criteria being satisfied. They 
were referred to the mortgage terms and conditions for more information. The terms and 
conditions state:
If you move property during the term we may agree to lend you the same amount that was 
the balance of the mortgage debt at the same interest rate over the same duration () then 
remaining provided that:
We are satisfied with your credit history;
We are satisfied the new property being offered as security is acceptable to us ;
We are satisfied the new lending meets out standard lending policy and assessment 
criteria at the relevant time;
In early 2020 Mr and Ms G decided to move and found a property they wanted to purchase. 
They returned to their broker to arrange a new mortgage and port their interest rate product. 
In order to buy the property they wanted, they needed to borrow 90% of the purchase price. 
However, for properties of the value Mr and Ms G wanted to buy, HSBCs lending criteria 
only allowed a maximum loan to value of 85%, so the application was declined.
Mr and Ms G complained to HSBC and asked it to waive the ERC. HSBC highlighted that 
the mortgage had been arranged by a broker and confirmed that it hadnt been told about 
their future plans. It said the mortgage terms and conditions explained that moving 
properties was subject to any application being accepted and meeting its lending criteria. As 
such, there were no guarantees and it was satisfied that Mr and Ms G had been made aware 
of the ERC in the mortgage offer. It declined to waive the ERC.
When they referred their complaint to this service, Mr and Ms G said they had always 
planned to move to a larger property before the end of the interest rate product.  They 
planned to take another mortgage with HSBC for the move, transfer the existing interest rate 
product to the new mortgage and take another for the increased borrowing. However, when 
they wanted to move, HSBC wouldnt give them a new mortgage for the amount they 
needed due to the loan-to-value (LTV) percentage they needed to purchase the new 
property. They said this was not made clear to them when they took the mortgage in 2019 
and had they known, they wouldnt have proceeded with it. They feel they were misled, and 
they shouldnt have had to pay the ERC.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr and Ms G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before I consider the merits of the complaint, I note that during a conversation with one of 
our investigators Mr G said that he considered the amount of the ERC charged was 
disproportionate. This isnt an issue that Mr and Ms G raised with HSBC and wasnt included 
in the complaint they asked us to consider either. In order for a complaint issue to fall within 
our remit, the financial business responsible for the act or omission complained about must 
be given the opportunity to respond to the complaint. As HSBC hasnt been given that 
opportunity, I wont comment further on this issue in this decision. If Mr and Ms G want it 
considered, they should refer it to HSBC in the first instance. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each lender will decide what types of properties it is willing to lend on and the level of risk it 
is willing to take when doing so; this will be reflected in its lending criteria. This is something 
lenders are allowed to do and as long as they apply their criteria consistently and fairly to 
consumers with similar circumstances, it isnt something this service would interfere with. 
Lenders are also allowed to change their lending criteria as their knowledge of and/or 
appetite for risk evolves. In this case HSBC has decided the maximum LTV percentage it is 
willing to lend on properties in different value bandings.
It is this maximum LTV requirement that caused Mr and Ms Gs application to be declined. I 
have seen nothing that indicates HSBC incorrectly applied its lending criteria or that it did so 
in an unfair way when declining the application. 
The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer Mr and Ms G accepted in 2019. As such, I 
am satisfied that they would have been aware of the need to pay the ERC when they 
decided to move and the HSBC mortgage was repaid. I dont think HSBC was wrong to have 
charged the ERC it did.
Mr and Ms G have said they werent made aware of the lending criteria regarding maximum 
borrowing levels when they took out their mortgage in 2019. Theyve said they feel they were 
misled as they told the broker about their plans for a move during the term of the interest 
rate product. Firstly, I would say that there was no mention in the mortgage application 
submitted to HSBC about these plans. So HSBC couldnt have known to question Mr and Ms 
Gs plans or provide them with further information. In addition, the broker Mr and Ms G used 
for their mortgage application was independent and so HSBC is not responsible for the 
advice or information (or lack thereof) they received from the broker. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr and Ms G, but I havent found that HSBC did anything 
wrong in declining their application for a new mortgage and subsequently applying an ERC 
when they paid their mortgage off. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Ms G to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman