DRN-3153766
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy MBNA Limited misled him about the promotional rate on his credit card.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr S applied for a credit card which he says was advertised at a 
promotional rate of 0% for 18 months. Mr S complained to MBNA as this rate only applies to 
purchases made within 60 days of account opening. He believes this shouldve been made 
clearer.
MBNA explained the promotional rate was only for purchases made within the first 60 days 
of account opening. But they agreed to refund the interest charged in February 2021 and 
March 2021, and to waive the interest in April 2021. They sent Mr S a standard final 
response letter.
Mr S was unhappy with the final response letter as it didnt detail his concerns, MBNAs 
stance or the actions theyd taken. MBNA apologised for not letting Mr S know that theyd be 
sending a standard final response letter. They offered him £25 compensation. Mr S referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that MBNA gave Mr S accurate information regarding the promotional 
rate, and felt the compensation offered of £25 was fair. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to clarify as an informal dispute resolution service, our focus is 
always on whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in the way they treated the 
individual customer making the complaint. As part of that, we look primarily at the impact of 
actions taken by the business on that individual customer.
I appreciate the thought behind Mr Ss complaint. Hed like corrective action to be taken to 
stop other customers from being misled. He also wants MBNA to refund the interest to those 
customers that may have already been affected too. 
But as explained, my role here is to focus only on the individual circumstance of Mr Ss 
complaint and decide if MBNA have treated him fairly. And in doing so, I cant consider any 
other similar instances or complaints.
All financial businesses, including MBNA, are entitled to exercise their commercial 
judgement on the promotional offers they wish to provide to customers. While other credit 
card companies offer 0% for purchases for the entire promotional period, this doesnt mean 
MBNA have to do the same. 
MBNA are within their rights to decide their promotional rates and for what period it should 
apply. But Id expect them to provide clear and accurate information. Ive seen the 
screenshots of the information Mr S wouldve seen on the overlay screen during his 
application. 
Under the heading of Purchases, it says 0% for 18 months in bold and large font size.
This is consistent with what Mr S described was advertised. So, I think these screenshots 
are persuasive evidence of the information provided to Mr S at the point of application.
Underneath the advertised rate of 0% for 18 months, it says  pay no interest for 18 months 
from account opening on the purchases you make in the first 60 days. 
While this sentence isnt in bold or the same font size as the promotional rate, I dont agree it 
was unclear or hidden away in the terms and conditions.
MBNA also drew this to Mr Ss attention, as the screen also included information in a blue 
box, which said:
Important: Any purchases you make after the first 60 days will incur interest at the 
standard rate, unless you pay off your entire credit card balance (including any 
balance transfers) in full and on time each month.
Mr Ss credit agreement also stated the promotional rate for purchases within 60 days of 
account opening is 0% for 18 months. And explained the standard rate for purchases made 
outside the promotional offer. 
Overall, Im satisfied that MBNA gave Mr S clear and accurate information about the 
promotional rate and made him aware of how interest would be charged on purchases made 
after the first 60 days.
In any event, MBNA have refunded the interest Mr S was charged in February 2021 of £1.14 
and March 2021 of £8.92. They also agreed to waive any interest charged in April 2021. 
Following this, Mr S cleared the outstanding balance and decided to close his account. So, 
he hasnt incurred a financial loss.
I agree MBNA couldve dealt with Mr Ss complaint better. MBNA shouldve made Mr S 
aware that theyd be sending him a templated final response letter, so I can understand his 
disappointment. This meant Mr S had to contact MBNA again, which couldve been avoided.
Overall, I think MBNA took reasonable steps to put things right. They apologised, provided 
Mr S a bespoke final response letter and passed feedback. They also offered Mr S £25 
compensation. 
Having taken into account the impact on Mr S, I think £25 compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint, 
but Im satisfied MBNA have treated him fairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that MBNA Limited should pay Mr S 
£25 compensation, if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman