DRN-3914367
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Cornish Mutual Assurance Company 
Limited mis-sold it a business interruption insurance policy which didnt cover it for losses 
caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
M, a law firm, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with Cornish Mutual. It operates a shop, 
restaurant and childrens play area.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 W closed 
its premises in March 2020. 
The policy was due for renewal on 10 April 2020. Cornish Mutual says after a face-to-face 
meeting it wrote to W on 23 March 2020 and advised it that the policy remained suitable for 
its demands and needs. W renewed the policy. W said given that letter was sent shortly after 
the first lockdown restrictions had been introduced, it was entitled to expect that the policy 
would cover losses caused by Covid-19. 
In June 2020 W claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses caused by 
Covid-19. Cornish Mutual declined the claim. It said W wasnt covered for its losses as the 
definition of Human Disease in the policy didnt include Covid-19. 
W said if it had been made aware before renewal that business interruption losses caused 
by Covid-19 werent covered by its policy, it could have obtained alternative insurance 
covering all notifiable diseases.
M referred Ws complaint to our service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
In this complaint Im only considering whether Cornish Mutual mis-sold the policy. A 
separate complaint has been brought about the decline of Ws business interruption claim.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ws business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  which sets out relevant rules that 
Cornish Mutual needed to follow  says that when selling a policy on an advised basis, a 
firm should understand its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is 
consistent with those demands and needs. Cornish Mutual sold Ws policy on an advised 
basis which means it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
Cornish Mutual also had a general duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I understand Cornish Mutuals recommendation was based on W requiring cover for loss of 
gross profit resulting from interference to its business caused by an insured peril. By the 
term insured peril Cornish Mutual was referring to perils such as fire, storm, flood etc which 
are listed in the policy and the schedule. However, Cornish Mutual was already aware that 
W had chosen to include an extension to the policy that covered losses arising from certain 
diseases occurring at the premises.
Given the above and the fact that three days before Cornish Mutual sent the renewal letter 
to W, the Prime Minister had ordered cafes and leisure centres in England to close with the 
first set of restrictions coming into effect on the following day, it would have been prudent for 
Cornish Mutual to have discussed this aspect of cover with W so that it could decide 
whether the policy was still suitable for it. 
Having said that, even if there were failings in the way the policy was sold, I would need to 
consider not just what Cornish Mutual did, but whether W would have acted differently had it 
not been for those failings.
The availability of cover for Covid-19 is likely to have started to change once the World 
Health Organization had declared a global health emergency in January 2020. 
On 4 March 2020 the Association of British Insurers said in a statement:
Insurance for business interruption resulting from Covid-19 is likely to be rare. Businesses 
who are concerned about the impacts of Covid-19 should check the scope of their cover, 
and check with their insurance adviser or broker.
On 5 March 2020 Covid-19 was added to the Governments list of notifiable diseases in 
England. By the end of March 2020 insurers were receiving the first claims for business 
interruption losses caused by Covid-19.
With the benefit of hindsight we now know that there were some policies which offered cover 
for all notifiable diseases. However I dont think W would have been able to take out such a 
policy after the first lockdown restrictions had been introduced in England as most insurers 
dont cover claims due to known, foreseen or expected events.
As I currently think its unlikely W would have found business interruption insurance cover 
against Covid-19 by the date that Cornish Mutual wrote to W about the renewal (23 March 
2020), I cant say it has lost out as a result of any failings on the part of Cornish Mutual. That 
means theres nothing for Cornish Mutual to put right.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly uphold Ws complaint.
Neither party had any comments on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comment on my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it 
and my provisional findings now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman