DRN-2737601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) turned down 
their claim under a building warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T made a claim to NHBC after experiencing problems with their roof.
NHBC turned down the claim as it didnt think the repairs would meet the minimum 
claim value (MCV), as required under the policy for the claim to be accepted.
Mr and Mrs T arranged for their own contractors to inspect the roof and give repair 
estimates. Each of those exceeded the MCV. They therefore thought NHBCs decision 
to turn down their claim had been unfair, and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought NHBCs decision 
to turn down the claim had been fair.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2021. Heres what I said:
Under section three of the policy, it says:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any 
physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the 
following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its garage or other 
permanent outbuildings:

g) roof coverings
The MCV had gone up to £1,629 (due to indexation) by the time of Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
NHBCs surveyor visited the property. He viewed the roof using binoculars, and thought 
there was evidence of mortar loss to the front verge. And that the damage was consistent 
with a weaker mix, which had allowed the mortar to debond. The surveyor thought the 
mortar used to the side and rear roof pitches was acceptable, as there wasnt excessive 
debonding to those areas.
The surveyor recommended the repairs be carried out (in other words, it was accepted 
by the surveyor that there was a defect in respect of the roof). He estimated the cost of 
the repairs to be £1,173.80.
As this was less than the MCV, NHBC turned down the claim. I think that decision 
was reasonable at the time, based on the information provided by its surveyor.
However, Mr and Mrs T then arranged for four contractors to assess their roof and 
provide quotes for the repairs. All of the quotes exceeded the MCV. They also included 
repair costs to the hip ridge tiles.
NHBC arranged for its surveyor to carry out a second assessment (at roof level), so he 
could check if there was other damage he hadnt previously identified. I think that was an 
appropriate response. However, the surveyor reached the same conclusions as hed 
previously made.
Ive looked carefully at the quotes that Mr and Mrs T obtained. Although they include the 
cost of repairs to the hip ridge tiles, two of the quotes separate the costs and I note that for 
repairs to the front verge alone, both those quotes exceeded the MCV.
NHBC says the cost of repairs would be the cost it would have to pay if it had arranged 
for the relevant work to be done. I agree the policy says this.
Often, insurers will have contracts in place with certain tradespeople, so that they 
receive a discount. However, NHBCs surveyor said he arrived at the repair amount of 
£1,173.80 based on industry costs. Therefore, this estimate wasnt based on a 
discounted cost that NHBC would pay if it arranged the work itself.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T have shown the repair costs do exceed the MCV. It would 
therefore seem that NHBCs surveyor underestimated the industry costs to carry out the 
repairs. Consequently, I think the claim for the defect to the front verge should be 
accepted by NHBC.
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs T have shown that NHBC should cover the cost 
of repairs to the hip ridge tiles.
One of Mr and Mrs Ts contractors said the ridge had a lot of moss growing out of the 
joints, which showed that water was penetrating the mortar work. They thought the mortar 
was therefore no longer fit for purpose. They also said the ridge was loose.
NHBCs surveyor has provided a detailed report based on his second visit, including 
photos. He concluded that, although there was moss growth, the mortar strength was 
performing. I think the photos provided support his conclusions.
Im satisfied that NHBCs second inspection confirmed the mortar to the ridge wasnt 
failing, and therefore this wouldnt be included in the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision. 
NHBC didnt provide any further comments.
Mr and Mrs T responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. They asked that 
NHBC pay a cash settlement so they could use their own contractor (the cheapest quote 
they obtained).
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments on my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to change these. 
Mr and Mrs T have asked if NHBC can pay a cash settlement. Under the policy, NHBC says it will pay the consumers the full cost of putting right the damage. Im satisfied that NHBC 
can therefore make a cash settlement. 
Ive seen the quotes Mr and Mrs T have provided, and theyve asked that NHBC pay the 
cheapest one. I think thats reasonable. For the repair work to the front verge alone, this 
amounts to £1,800 (including VAT). It will be up to NHBC whether it pays the settlement in 
advance of the work, or after its been done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building 
Council to accept the claim for the damage to the front verge, and pay the cheapest 
quote that Mr and Mrs T obtained, in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman