DRN-3358078
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that a vehicle supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr W is being represented in this complaint by Company H. But, for ease of reference, Ill 
only refer to Mr W within my decision.
What happened
On 21 June 2019, Mr W was supplied with a used vehicle through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. He paid a deposit of £1,000 and the agreement was for £14,812.50 
over 60 months; with an initial payment of £355.51, 58 monthly repayments of £305.51, and 
final payment of £355.51. At the time the car was four years old and had done 39,282 miles.
Mr W said that, within two months of taking possession of the vehicle, he started having 
problems with the cooling and braking systems. And he said the engine was overheating. 
Despite visiting a garage several times, Mr W says the problems continued and the vehicle 
broke down on 31 January 2020. And he hasnt been able to use it since.
Mr W complained to Oodle. But Oodle said there was no evidence there were any faults with 
the vehicle when it was supplied to him. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr W wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator initially said Mr W had provided evidence that the vehicle was faulty. But 
this evidence didnt suggest that the faults were present or developing when the vehicle was 
supplied to him. So, she didnt think Oodle were responsible for any repairs.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. And he arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by 
an independent engineer. The engineer said the vehicle had been suffering from a long-term 
coolant issue and there was sufficient evidence to confirm there was an underlying and 
developing condition at the time of sale.
Oodle didnt accept the independent engineers report, and they thought it would be 
impossible for Mr W to drive 12,000 miles with a fault thatd been present from the point of 
sale. And they thought the damage could only have been caused by Mr Ws lack of care.
However, the investigator thought the independent engineers report showed the vehicle 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. And she issued a second view 
saying Oodle should arrange for the vehicle to be repaired, refund any payments Mr W had 
paid since January 2020 (while the vehicle was off the road), refund Mr Ws inspection costs, 
remove any adverse credit from Mr Ws credit file, and pay him an additional £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Oodle arranged for a different engineer to inspect the vehicle. And this inspection took place 
on 13 December 2021. This report also confirmed that the vehicle had ongoing issues with 
the cooling system which, on the balance of probabilities, began before the date of sale.
Based on this report, Oodle said theyd be prepared to allow Mr W to reject the car. They 
offered to refund Mr W the deposit and payments hed made, reimburse the cost of the 
inspection hed had done, pay him statutory interest, remove any adverse information from 
his credit file, and pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. 
However, because both independent engineers had said the engine block had suffered 
additional corrosion because of how itd been stored, and this made repairs impossible, 
theyd look to reduce the refund by £3,000 to account for this additional damage.
Mr W rejected the offer from Oodle, as it didnt compensate him for the cost of the repairs 
hed had done to the cooling system. He also felt that the additional corrosion to the engine 
block wasnt his responsibility, as it wasnt caused as a result of how he used the car.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Oodle 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Oodle can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mr W to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, 
if I thought the car was faulty when Mr W took possession of it, and this made the car not of 
a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Oodle to put this right.
It's not disputed that the vehicle Mr W was supplied with had a fault, or that that fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. So, Im satisfied that the vehicle wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality, and Oodle need to do something to put this right.
Both independent engineers have said the engine block is likely to need replacing. Given the 
cost of carrying out such a repair and because Mr W has had the engine stripped down 
since January 2020, I think Oodles offer to allow Mr W to reject the vehicle, instead of 
having it repaired, is reasonable in the circumstances.
However, the first independent engineer said, the cylinder block has been uncovered and 
left open to the elements; this has caused severe rusting to the cylinder face block. And the 
second independent engineer said it should also be noted that the surface corrosion to the 
engine block has occurred as a direct result of the engine block not receiving the appropriate 
protection following stripping  the visible water galleries in the block face and in the water 
pump block showed significant long term corrosion, which no doubt has worsened due to 
their exposure to the elements.Mr W has said that this damage is not his responsibility, as it didnt result from how he used 
the car. But, after the engine was stripped and stored at his property, it was his responsibility 
to ensure the engine block was sufficiently protected so additional damage didnt occur. And 
he didnt do this. So, I think that Mr W has responsibility for this additional damage. And I 
also think that Oodle are acting reasonably by taking this into account, as Id expect them to 
do with any type of damage that falls outside of fair wear and tear guidelines.
Mr W was supplied with the car in June 2019, and he continued to use it until it broke down 
at the very end of January 2020. Because Mr W had use of the car, I think its fair that he 
pays for this usage. So Oodle should be allowed to keep the payments hed made during 
this period. However, any payments he made after this should be refunded to him.
Mr W paid to have the car repaired in December 2019 and January 2020. These repairs all 
related to the cooling system, which was faulty when the car was supplied. So, I think Oodle 
should reimburse him for these costs, as well as for the cost of the recovery and engine 
strip, and for the independent engineers report he had done. 
Mr W has also provided details of a car he rented in February and March 2020. Because Ill 
be asking Oodle to refund the payments he made at the same time, I dont think its also fair 
that Oodle also cover the costs of alternative transportation. Otherwise Mr W will essentially 
be receiving two payments for the same thing  the vehicle not being usable. So, I wont be 
asking Oodle to refund the car rental costs.
Finally, I agree with the investigator that Mr W was inconvenienced by having a faulty car. 
And I think the compensation offered by Oodle is reasonable in the circumstances. So, I 
wont be asking them to increase this.
My provisional decision is that Oodle should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
arrange to collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr W;
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file;
refund the £1,000 deposit Mr W paid;
refund all the payments Mr W made from February 2020 onwards, less £3,000 for the 
additional damage caused to the engine block after it was removed from the vehicle;
upon receipt of proof of payment made, reimburse Mr W for the cost of the repairs to 
the cooling system in December 2019 and January 2020, for the cost of recovering 
the vehicle and stripping the engine; and for the cost of the September 2021 
independent engineers inspection;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr W 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr W an additional £200 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle to take off tax from this interest. Oodle must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Responses
Mr W said that Oodle had the opportunity to send someone out to inspect the car as soon as 
his complaint was made, but they didnt do so. And for them to say, two years later, that they 
have an issue with how the engine block was stored is unacceptable  he only arranged to 
have this done because of Oodles lack of action. So, he thought it was unfair that he was 
being punished with a £3,000 deduction. Hes also said that the engine block remained under the bonnet of the car, and wasnt left directly open to the elements, as I said was the 
case in my provisional decision.
Mr W also thought that the £200 compensation wasnt sufficient for two years worth of 
trouble and upset, and this amount should be ten times what Oodle are offering me.
Oodle accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has commented on the location of the engine block, and that I said it had been left 
exposed to the elements. However, it was the independent engineer Mr W instructed to 
inspect the car who said, the cylinder block has been uncovered and left open to the 
elements and my provisional decision just quoted this. However, whether the engine block 
was covered or not, both independent engineers agreed that how it was left allowed it to 
rust. So, I dont think the specific location of the engine block has any relevance, as it 
doesnt change what happened to it.
I agree that Oodle couldve arranged for someone to inspect the vehicle sooner. But the 
evidence Mr W had initially supplied them didnt indicate that a fault was present when the 
car was supplied. So, I dont think Oodle acted unreasonably by taking this into 
consideration when dealing with his complaint, and by not instructing an independent 
engineer at this stage.
The agreement Mr W signed made it clear that he was responsible for keeping the vehicle in 
good condition (at his expense) and that he was responsible for any damage outside of fair 
wear and tear. Its not disputed that the engine block has corroded beyond repair, or that this 
isnt something that would normally be expected to happen during normal usage. Because of 
this, and while I accept that Mr W doesnt agree, Oodle are entitled to charge Mr W for the 
cost of a replacement.
I appreciate that Mr W doesnt think thar £200 compensation is sufficient, and he believes 
this should be £2,000. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr W was inconvenienced by 
having a faulty car. And he was unable to use the car after 31 January 2020. Mr W also had 
a short period of time without transportation before he purchased a replacement vehicle. And 
hes had to continue to pay Oodle while this complaint has been ongoing.
However, as explained in my provisional decision, Im asking Oodle to refund the payments 
Mr W has made since the car broke down, plus his deposit and the costs of any repairs hed 
had done. And I also explained why I wouldnt be covering the costs of any alternative 
transportation. Because this compensation covers why Mr W believes the compensation 
should be increased, I see no compelling reasons to also increase the £200.
So, for these reasons, Mr Ws comments dont change my view.
Putting things right
Given the above, Oodle should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
arrange to collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr W;
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file;refund the £1,000 deposit Mr W paid;
refund all the payments Mr W made from February 2020 onwards, less £3,000 for the 
additional damage caused to the engine block after it was removed from the vehicle;
upon receipt of proof of payment made, reimburse Mr W for the cost of the repairs to 
the cooling system in December 2019 and January 2020, for the cost of recovering 
the vehicle and stripping the engine; and for the cost of the September 2021 
independent engineers inspection;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr W 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr W an additional £200 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle to take off tax from this interest. Oodle must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Oodle Financial Services 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman