DRN-3786215
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund him two payments totalling 
approximately £3,000 that he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what happened here. But in summary, Mr B was tricked into sending two payments 
totalling £2,995 to a third-party in the belief he was purchasing a camper van from them. 
In May 2022 Mr B saw an advert for a camper van for sale on a popular classified adverts 
website. He got in touch with the person who listed the advert, and exchanged messages. 
The seller shared photos of the camper van and they discussed paying for the camper van, 
when it would be available for collection, and what paperwork existed pertaining to the 
rebuild of it (though no evidence of the paperwork was shared). The seller said that 
someone else was supposed to be putting down a holding deposit but they had not got their 
online banking sorted, and so Mr B agreed to pay £1,000 holding deposit to guarantee he 
got the camper van. The seller then said his partner had suggested the full amount should 
be sent before he went to collect it due to the high demand for the camper van, and so Mr B 
sent over another payment of £1,995. Mr B travelled a long distance to get to where the van 
was meant to be. The seller told him just before he arrived that the payments had bounced 
back as the bank thought it was suspicious that two payments had gone in one day to the 
same seller. Mr B then told him he had arrived, and never heard from the seller again. 
Mr B raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo investigated Mr Bs complaint and declined to 
refund his losses. In summary, they didnt think that Mr B had established that he had met 
the requisite level of care when he was making the payments. They also said the payments 
were not large enough to mean they were required to give Mr B an effective warning. They 
said they had contacted the receiving account who were not liable, and who confirmed no 
funds remained in the receiving account to return to Mr B. 
Mr B was unhappy that Monzo declined to refund his losses, so he asked our service to 
investigate his complaint. Our investigator looked at what had happened, and they thought 
that Monzo had acted fairly and reasonably in this case. They agreed that the value of the 
payments were not large enough to have required Monzo to provide Mr B with an effective 
warning about this kind of scam. And they also said that they did not think that Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payments were going to a legitimate seller. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he said: 
Monzo should have picked up that the payments were unusual and out of character 
for his account. The account had barely been used before these transactions and 
then two large payments were sent to a new payee. 
Banks money is well insured to cover him on this occasion, and he was not prepared 
to give in at this time. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the stating position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mr B lost in line with the provisions of the 
CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr 
M from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code 
Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, but agreed to adhere to its principles. The CRM code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. It sets out standards that banks, such as Monzo, are expected to 
meet in terms of protecting their customers from financial harm. But it also sets out 
expectations that a customer should meet, too. As a starting point, a customer should 
receive a full refund if they fall victim to an authorised push payment scam such as this one. 
There appears to be no dispute that Mr B was the victim of an authorised push payment 
scam here. He thought he was sending money to buy a camper van, but instead it went to a 
scammer. But, Mr B would not be entitled to a full refund if Monzo can fairly and reasonably 
demonstrate, as they have asserted, that Mr B has failed to meet the requisite level of care 
under one of more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests that Mr B did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing that he was dealing with a legitimate seller when he made the transfers. I say this 
because: 
Mr B had not seen the camper van in person, or any videos of the camper van. All he 
had seen was photos which did not prove that the person he was talking to was in possession of this camper van. 
Mr B sent the two transfers without completing any checks on the vehicle, or its 
ownership. I would expect him to have done checks prior to sending the payments, 
such as seeing the V5 logbook, looking up the MOT records, or undergoing any of 
the available paid for searches. 
I do understand why he might have wanted to secure the van before being able to 
travel to see it in person as it appears to have been a considerable distance away, 
but I would expect even more exhaustive searches to be conducted on the vehicle 
and its ownership before sending funds when he was unable to see it in person. The 
van was purported to be for sale through a private seller, not a dealership or 
business where providing a holding deposit may have been more appropriate. 
Ultimately, he sent the funds to a total stranger he met off the internet with no proof 
that they owned the camper-van in question.  
Did Monzo need to give Mr B an effective warning? 
Where Monzo identifies a risk of a payment being linked to an APP scam in a payment 
journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide their customers with effective 
warnings. Monzo have suggested that there was nothing about these payments that 
necessitated a warning to be given  and I agree. I will go into this in more detail below, but 
briefly, there was nothing about these payments that I think ought to have suggested Mr B 
was at risk of a scam. And so, I would not have expected Monzo to provide effective 
warnings for these transactions. 
Should Monzo have done more to protect Mr B? 
In addition to their responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr B made the payments 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual and 
out of character transactions or other signs that might indicate that Mr B was at risk of fraud 
or financial harm (amongst other things). 
I appreciate that Mr B says he had not used his account much, so these payments ought 
reasonably to have stood out as unusual and out of character for his account. Banks have a 
difficult balancing act when it comes to assessing whether payments are unusual. Whilst an 
account may not be used often, and then only have one or two large payments, this is not 
something I think is sufficiently unusual that Monzo ought to have intervened. And so whilst I 
appreciate that these funds were certainly not inconsequential, I do not think they were so 
large that Monzo should have been on alert that Mr B was at risk of fraud or financial harm 
and got in touch with him or otherwise intervened. 
Recovery 
I have also considered whether Monzo could have done more to try to recover the money 
once it had been told of the scam. We would expect a business to take reasonable steps to 
try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to, with urgency, after their customer 
notifies them they fell victim to a scam. Monzo did try to recover the funds Mr B sent to the 
scammer within an appropriate amount of time  and were able to evidence that they 
contacted the receiving bank within less than an hour after Mr B contacted them. They were 
unable to recover any funds from this bank as the receiving account was empty. So I dont 
think Monzo could have done more to recover Mr Bs funds here. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman