DRN-3174574
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2007
alongside a personal loan. Mrs and Mr H say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold that PPI 
policy.
What happened
Although Mrs and Mr H took out a joint personal loan, the PPI policy was set up to cover 
Mr H only. Mrs and Mr H were sold a single premium PPI policy. So that means they had 
to borrow extra on top of their loan to pay for the cover. They also had to pay interest on 
the cost of the PPI.
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs and 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that 
information here.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because when he took the policy 
out, Mr H had a pre-existing medical condition. She didnt think Mr H would have agreed 
to take the policy out if Northern Bank had explained the exclusions about medical 
conditions. Northern Bank did not agree with that view. It said it had requested evidence of 
Mr Hs medical condition during its investigation, but no such evidence had been 
forthcoming. Northern Bank then requested a final decision from an ombudsman.
Some considerable time later, another of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld because of Mr Hs medical condition. But she 
thought the complaint should be upheld because Northern Bank didnt adequately disclose 
the cost of the cover to Mrs and Mr H.
Again, Northern Bank disagreed with that view and reiterated its request for a final 
decision. Northern Bank also told our adjudicator that it had paid back to Mrs and Mr H 
some of the cost of their PPI premium. That was because Northern Bank didnt tell Mrs 
and Mr H about the high level of commission and profit share it would receive from their 
PPI premium. I understand £752.79 was paid to Mrs and Mr H on 23 January 2018 in 
respect of that offer.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision. I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
said: 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered 
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive provisionally decided 
Northern Bank should have disclosed the commission it received - but that Northern 
Banks offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions 
below.
Was PPI mis-sold?
In summary, I dont intend to uphold the mis-sale complaint for the reasons set out below.
The parties appear to agree that PPI was sold during a meeting between them. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what the parties told us about it. And Ive also considered the 
documentary evidence thats available from the point of sale.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Northern Bank made it clear to Mrs and Mr H that 
the PPI was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see from 
the documentation thats available from the time that Mrs and Mr H had to complete a 
separate application form for the PPI policy. So I think theyd have appreciated the cover 
was a separate financial product to the loan. Theres nothing on the paperwork to suggest 
the cover was compulsory, and so I think the person selling the cover probably made the 
optional nature of the policy clear too. On that basis, I think Mrs and Mr H would have 
known they could refuse this cover if they didnt want it.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because I can see a demands and needs 
questionnaire was completed. It looks to me as though Northern Bank recommended this 
cover to Mrs and Mr H after taking account of their personal circumstances. As this was an 
advised sale, Northern Bank had to check it was suitable for Mrs and Mr Hs needs. To 
help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the 
terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also given very careful thought to what Mrs and 
Mr H told us about their personal circumstances at the time.
As I said above, the PPI was set up to cover Mr H only. If he was off sick from work, the 
loan repayments would have been covered until he was well again or until the balance of 
the loan was repaid in full. If hed been made redundant, the repayments would have been 
met for up to 12 months. I understand Mr H wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay from 
his employer  only statutory sick pay. And it looks as though the cover would have lasted 
for longer than his statutory redundancy entitlement as well. I havent been told about any 
other existing means Mrs and Mr H could have fallen back on if Mr H was out of work. So in 
those circumstances, I can see how PPI could have been useful if Mr H lost his job or if he 
became unwell.
In the PPI questionnaire, Mrs and Mr H told us Mr H had been diagnosed with a respiratory 
condition as a child in 1982. I can see Northern Bank asked for more information about this 
medical condition, but nothing was provided. Our adjudicator also made some further 
enquiries about Mr Hs health. Upon doing so, those representing them told us Mr H didnt 
have any medical conditions at the point of sale. More enquiries were made and through his representatives, Mr H said he did have a chest condition, but it did not affect his ability to 
work.
As Mr Hs medical condition didnt affect his ability to work, I dont think hed have 
reasonably thought hed need to make a PPI claim because of it. So I dont think it 
rendered the PPI policy unsuitable. Those representing Mrs and Mr H also made 
submissions about back and mental health conditions being excluded form the policy. But 
having considered the terms and conditions, I am satisfied there was no such limitation.
Mrs and Mr H also told us they were trying for a baby at around the time PPI was sold, and 
so they wouldnt have been able to make a claim if Mrs H became pregnant. But I dont 
think any limitations around pregnancy would have affected the suitability of PPI if only Mr 
H was covered. I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Hs employment circumstances 
that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to.
As I said above, this was a single premium PPI policy. But it looks as though the cover 
would have lasted for the entire term of the loan. I accept that Mrs and Mr H wouldnt have 
received a pro rata refund if theyd cancelled the policy before the end of the planned loan 
term. But the evidence before me doesnt suggest Mrs and Mr H intended to repay their 
loan early, so I dont think this affected the suitability of the PPI. Overall, it seems most 
likely that Northern Banks PPI recommendation was suitable in the circumstances.
Even so, Northern Bank had to give Mrs and Mr H enough information about the cover so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. Our adjudicator 
thought the complaint should be upheld because the cost of the policy wasnt disclosed to 
Mrs and Mr H. However, the information before me suggests the cost of the cover was 
disclosed at the point of sale. The documentation from the relevant time indicates Mrs and 
Mr H were told the PPI would be paid for with an interest bearing loan. I can see the 
monthly cost of the PPI was set out, along with the amount of interest they would have to 
pay on the PPI premium if the loan ran to term. If the cost was set out separately on the 
documentation, Im satisfied the person selling the cover would have also made that clear.
Nevertheless, its possible that all of the information Northern Bank gave Mrs and Mr H 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive provisionally found that they 
chose to take it out, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs and Mr H as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what they 
reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given. I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  so it seems like it could have been 
helpful at what could have been a very difficult time if Mr H was out of work. Because of this 
I dont think Mrs and Mr H would have declined the cover if Northern Bank had given them 
more or better information about it.
I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Im aware that the representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because 
of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Northern Bank should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
the mis- sale element of this complaint.
This means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and 
Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to 
remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Im provisionally satisfied that Northern Bank should have disclosed the 
commission it received and that Northern Banks offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Northern Bank didnt tell Mrs and Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit 
share they paid in this case. So taking into account:
-The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non- disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Northern Bank and Mrs and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because Northern Bank didnt tell them about the high levels of commission 
and profit share in this case
As things stand, I dont think Northern Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs and Mr H because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
I know those representing Mrs and Mr H have made a number of submissions about the 
impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on 
this type of complaint.In summary, it has been argued that consumers in Mrs and Mr Hs position should get 
back all the money they paid for the policy because: Northern Bank failed to disclose the 
high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs and Mr H wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission and they should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had 
the commission been disclosed;
-A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
-The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Northern Bank not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account:
-The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of 
commission;
-refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as has been suggested by the representative, driven to conclude that the
policy wouldnt have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, 
for the reasons Ive given above.
My provisional view is it was fair for Northern Bank to calculate compensation in line with the 
FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mrs and Mr H paid for the PPI policy.
Im provisionally satisfied this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it 
leaves Mrs and Mr H with the policy Ive concluded above would still have taken out if 
Northern Bank had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and 
profit share levels.
So I consider that Northern Banks payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.As things stand, as Northern Bank has already paid Mrs and Mr H compensation on this
basis, I dont consider it should do anything further.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider before 16 November 2021. Neither party responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
require Northern Bank Limited to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I 
have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any 
award in that regard.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, I have decided that 
Northern Bank Limited should pay Mrs and Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable).  As Northern Bank has already paid compensation on this basis, it does not 
need to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman