DRN-2474407
The complaint
 The estate of Mr A is unhappy that Union Reiserversicherung AG declined to cover the cost 
of his medical treatment and repatriation when he was taken ill while on holiday. Its also 
unhappy with the service Mr As representative received during his illness.
All references to URV includes its agents
What happened
Mr A held a single trip travel insurance policy with URV.  The policy covered him from 31 
December 2018 until 15 January 2019.
In early January 2019 while on holiday, Mr A was taken ill with vomiting, diarrhoea and 
abdominal pain and was seen by a doctor. He was initially diagnosed with suspected acute 
gastro-enterocolitis. But Mr As condition didnt improve and the following day the same 
doctor arranged for him to be transferred to hospital as an emergency.
Soon after being transferred to hospital Mr A was sedated and was admitted to the hospitals 
intensive care unit.  He was fitted with a breathing tube and was unable to communicate with 
the medical team after that point.
Following receipt of medical information, URV declined the claim. It said the information it 
had received from the hospital treating Mr A referred to a diagnosis of chronic 
alcoholism/alcohol abuse which isnt something thats covered under Mr As policy.
As URV declined to cover Mr As treatment, Mr As estate assumed responsibility for his care 
and made arrangements for him to be transferred back to the UK by air ambulance.
Sadly, soon after arriving in the UK, Mr A passed away.
Mr As estate are unhappy URV declined to cover the claim. They say the medical 
information received from the hospital was incorrect and they want URV to accept the claim 
and cover the costs of Mr As medical treatment and the costs of transferring him back to the 
UK by air ambulance. Mr As estate has provided URV with a letter from the treating hospital 
which says the information about the cause of Mr As condition was incorrect. The estate has 
also provided URV with a copy of Mr As post mortem results and his death certificate which 
it says makes no mention of alcohol as a contributing factor in Mr As death.
But URV isnt satisfied the letter retracting Mr As medical diagnosis is genuine and it doesnt 
consider the post mortem results or death certificate as evidence it should accept the claim. 
URV believe some of this evidence, gathered by Mr As estate after his death, has been 
provided by the parties overseas so they can recover their costs from the insurance 
company.
The estate has also complained about the poor level of service Mr As representatives 
received from URV during this difficult time.
Our investigator looked into the circumstances of this case and was satisfied URV should 
accept the updated medical information from the hospital. She said URV should accept the 
claim and cover the costs of Mr As medical treatment and repatriation to the UK.  In 
response to URVs arguments about the intentions of the overseas parties, she pointed out 
that all the costs of Mr As medical care, including the costs for the air ambulance to return 
him to the UK, had already been settled by Mr As estate before the updated information had 
been provided.
URV disagree with the opinion of our investigator so the case has been passed to me for a 
determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and asked the parties to provide any further 
information theyd like considered. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered industry rules which 
include the requirement for URV to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not 
unreasonably reject a claim.
I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mr As family who have been coping with 
the unexpected loss of their loved one whilst at the same time, trying to gather information to 
evidence a valid claim under Mr As travel insurance policy.
Id also like to assure the parties Ive considered everything thats been provided to me but 
will only comment on matters I think are most pertinent to the outcome of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons.
Policy terms
Mr As policy with URV includes specific terms relating to the use and abuse of alcohol. The 
policy terms say there is no cover for any claims in the event of :
You, your travelling companion, close relative or business associate being under the 
influence of:-
-Drugs (except those prescribed by your registered doctor but not when 
prescribed for the treatment of drug addiction);
-Alcohol (a blood alcohol level that exceeds 0.19% - approximately four 
pints or four 175ml glasses of wine);
-Solvents, or,
-Anything relating to you, your travelling companion, close relative or 
business associate prior abuse of drugs, alcohol or solvents
When URV declined cover for Mr As treatment, it specifically referred to these policy terms.  
In order to be satisfied URV reasonably declined Mr As treatment costs under the policy 
terms and conditions, Id need to see evidence that showed Mr A had a blood alcohol level in 
excess of 0.19% and/or evidence of prior abuse of drugs, alcohol or solvents.That isnt evidence Ive been provided with, although its clear to me the information provided 
to URV by the treating hospital may have led it to believe alcohol was the likely cause of Mr 
As condition. Because of that, I dont think it was unreasonable of URV to have declined the 
claim initially.
Hospital medical records
When Mr A was admitted to hospital, the medical notes show a diagnosis of chronic acute 
pancreatitis. The information provided by the hospital treating Mr A specifically refers to 
alcohol consumption. The medical history includes chronic ethylism. Pancreatitis.  
However, based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded the diagnosis of chronic acute 
pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis or alcoholism given by the hospital can be relied upon.  I 
say this for the reasons Ive set out below.  
When Mr A was admitted to hospital, he was very unwell and was only conscious for a short 
period of time. None of the narrative thats included in the admission notes show he said he 
suffered from pancreatitis previously or that he suffered from alcoholism. The hospital did not 
perform a toxicology test to establish if Mr A had excessive amounts of alcohol in his blood  
and it did not have access to his UK medical records - so it seems most likely to me that the 
diagnosis reached when Mr A was admitted was based on his symptoms of pancreatitis 
rather than a confirmed cause of his pancreatitis or related medical history.
Ive seen information from the doctor that initially treated Mr A prior to his admission to 
hospital. Her notes say Mr A had been out the night before he became unwell and had eaten 
a lot of food including lobster. Her referral to the hospital does not reference alcohol abuse 
or alcoholism.  
URV has provided a further letter from this doctor, dated August 2020, which refers to Mr A 
as naturally consuming excessive, unusual amounts of food and alcohol in the days prior 
to becoming unwell and while staying in a different part of the country. But this email goes on 
to suggest that URV should consult the hospital medical records any for further details.  
I dont think its necessarily unusual for someone on holiday to drink and eat more than they 
would when at home, so Im not persuaded this email demonstrates a history of alcohol 
abuse.
Ive also seen a letter from the hospital that treated Mr A. This letter is on letter headed 
paper, is signed by the director of the hospital and the head of its services for overseas 
patients and bears their official stamp. The authors of this letter confirm the initial diagnosis 
listed by the hospital was incorrect. Whilst URV dispute the authenticity of this letter, Ive not 
seen any evidence from URV to substantiate their claim this letter has been fabricated.
On the contrary Ive been provided with an email from a party investigating the case on 
behalf of URV dated 1 September 2020 which states we were told that due to the fact the 
patient was not involved in an accident or a crime, a toxicology report was not carried out, 
therefore .alcoholism could not be proven.  
Ive also been provided with a copy of a clinical history summary report from the hospital 
which states: A patient, with a health history, was admitted to our centre on 8 January 2019 
with acute abdominal pain and profuse vomiting episodes, no ethyl alcohol was noted in their 
breath, and this element wasnt found during examination. Upon physical examination, we 
did not identify any clinical signs that would suggest the patient had ingested any alcoholic 
drinks, or collateral circulation stigmas, regurgitation or other indirect signs of hepatic 
damage..The contents of this report are also included in an email from the hospital to URVs agent 
dated October 2019.
Further, this email says, It is valid to point out that acute pancreatitis cannot only be 
attributed to alcoholism as in this case rather that there maybe other causes such as eating 
many high fat goods, which amongst other things are responsible for the same disease. The 
email confirms there has been no alteration or falsification of any documents. 
Im persuaded this report and email do not support a diagnosis of alcohol abuse or 
alcoholism. 
Ive also considered whether there is any evidence to support URVs claim that the medical 
documents have been altered to facilitate payment of the medical costs by the insurance 
company.
URV has provided me with a transcript of a call between its agent and the hospital, which 
URV say demonstrates the medical report it received dated 28 January 2019 is different to 
the medical report from the same date held by the hospital. Im not persuaded this 
conversation supports URVs position. I say that because the call is between URVs agent 
and the hospital billing office, not with any of the medical team that treated Mr A and lacks 
detail about any differences in the report specifically relating to Mr As medical condition or 
diagnosis. 
In addition, the third party investigating this case on behalf of URV, again in the email dated 
1 September 2020, references a further conversation with the billing department and only 
refers to a note added to Mr As medical file a few months after his treatment which says, 
the medical insurance claim would be denied if alcohol is a factor. The billing department 
employee directs the caller to discuss Mr As medical reports with one of the doctors but its 
clear that conversation hasnt taken place.
Ive also considered Mr As medical records in the UK. Whilst there is an occasional 
reference to alcohol consumption, Im not persuaded the information leads me to a 
conclusion that its more likely than not Mr A abused alcohol or suffered from alcoholism.  
Ive reviewed Mr As GP medical records dating back to 2008 and there are what I consider 
to be a small number of references to drinking alcohol, the majority of which are in the 
context of health and wellbeing advice including advice on smoking, healthy eating and 
exercise. And Mr As GP has confirmed he cannot find any record of a formal diagnosis of 
chronic alcoholism or alcohol dependence or that Mr A ever received specialist treatment for 
alcohol dependence.  Equally, Mr As medical records do not show a diagnosis of, or 
treatment for, pancreatitis.
Im not a doctor and the role of this service is to consider the evidence provided by the 
parties to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the case. And 
as a result of my review Im not persuaded, based on everything Ive seen, that URV can 
fairly rely on the policy terms relating to alcohol abuse to continue to repudiate this claim. 
I understand URVs position  which is that on the balance of probabilities Mr As condition 
was caused by alcohol consumption or alcohol abuse - but the evidence in this case doesnt 
lead me to that same conclusion, recognising the requirement on URV, under industry 
regulations, to not unreasonably decline a claim. 
As Ive said, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to decline Mr As claim initially, based 
on the information provided by hospital treating Mr A when first became unwell  and I can appreciate why URV is concerned the information about Mr As condition changed. Its gone 
to significant effort to investigate these matters and Im grateful for the information its 
provided. But given that the hospital has retracted its diagnosis of Mr As condition, I dont 
think its reasonable for URV to continue to repudiate this claim, or to do so based on the 
results of its own investigations.
Ive gone on to consider the information URV had in its possession before Mr A was 
repatriated to the UK and Im satisfied the information in URVs position warranted further 
investigation before the decision to decline cover was finalised. 
I wont refer to everything provided to me but there are key dates in URVs contact notes and 
correspondence history when it was in receipt of information which I think is important to this 
case.
On Saturday 12 January 2019 URV emailed the hospital treating Mr A asking for a 
medical report. Thats 4 to 5 days after URV was notified of Mr As admission to 
hospital.
On 18 January 2019  10 days after Mr A was admitted to hospital  the notes show 
that URV was in possession of a medical report from Mr As treating doctor, 
referencing alcohol consumption and recommending an air ambulance repatriation. 
URVs position at this time was that Mr A was not fit to fly and did not require urgent 
transfer as he was receiving adequate treatment. However, the notes go on to say 
we need to await medical updates as no info since 8th.  At this point, Mr As case is 
referred to URVs underwriters. 
On 19 January 2019, URV requested a medical report from Mr As UK GP. URVs 
contact notes show that on 21 January 2019, the UK GP report had been received 
showing no active conditions. It goes on to say there is no mention on the GP 
report of any alcohol issues..   
On 23 January 2019, URVs underwriters make the decision to decline the claim.  
On 24 January 2019, URV requested a further medical report  a two year medical 
history - from Mr As UK GP.  
The contact notes include a brief summary of one entry from this report which says 
hes aware hes drinking too much  one bottle of wine per night, but no alcohol 
related consultations no admissions for pancreatitis. This information from Mr As 
medical notes is from 2017 where Mr A is given general advice about smoking, 
exercise, alcohol and weight management. No medical intervention is referred to or 
recommended as a result of this conversation.  
On 26 January 2019, URV are told by Mr As representative the hospital has said it 
made a mistake with the medical records  no issue with the chronic alcohol 
consumption is shown in the contact notes. 
On 29 January 2019, URVs notes show it contacted one of the ICU doctors treating 
Mr A.  It asked the doctor about the cause of the pancreatitis. The doctor said the 
cause might be related to alcohol but confirmed no toxicology levels were available 
or performed. The doctor also said he had no confirmed information about Mr As 
history of the condition. On the same day, URV contacted the UK GP again - requesting an eight year 
medical history - but also told Mr As representative that there was no reason to 
change the outcome of its decision, which was to decline the claim.
I appreciate the circumstances of this case are very unusual, but URVs contact notes show 
the decision to decline Mr As claim appears to have been made against a background of 
limited information and while URV were still seeking evidence to validate the circumstances 
of Mr As illness. 
Im satisfied the decision to decline the claim led Mr As representatives to repatriate him for 
on-going care.
Mr A was a long way from home and clearly extremely unwell. His treating doctors had said 
he was fit to fly. Given that Mr A was facing an uncertain future and unknown medical costs, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr As representative to arrange for him to be returned 
home.
URV has said it wouldnt have repatriated Mr A and that his treatment could have continued 
overseas. I dont dispute that.  But once URV declined the claim, the responsibility for 
decisions about Mr As care fell to his representatives. 
Im satisfied the evidence presented to me means URV should now accept liability for the 
claim. Even if I accept that URV wouldnt have repatriated Mr A, it would have incurred on-
going charges for Mr As medical care and ultimately the costs associated with returning Mr 
A home at some point, or the costs of transferring Mr A by air ambulance to a location which 
offers treatment under the European reciprocal healthcare agreement. 
So, while URV may have been denied the opportunity to attempt to negotiate costs 
downwards, Im satisfied that this happened as a result of its decision to decline the claim. 
And, having taken all of the surrounding circumstances into account, Im satisfied that it 
would be fair and reasonable for URV to bear the full cost of the air ambulance arranged by 
Mr As estate. 
Ive gone on to consider the estates dissatisfaction with URVs service during what must 
have been a difficult and traumatic time. I can only ask URV to pay compensation for poor 
service, or trouble and upset, experienced by their customer. In this case, the estate of Mr A 
and his representatives arent customers of URV. And from the information provided to me, it 
seems Mr A was thankfully largely unaware of the situation surrounding his case at the time, 
so I wont be making an award for non-financial loss in this case.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint  and within 28 days of this 
service telling Union Reiseversicherung AG that Mr As estate accept this decision  it 
should:
Refund Mr As estate for the cost of the air ambulance to return Mr A home, adding 
8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Accept the remainder of the claim under the remaining policy terms; and
Add 8% simple interest* to any payments made from the time the payments were 
made to the date of settlement
Putting things right
Following my provisional decision, both parties asked me to consider additional matters.As part of their response, URV asked me to comment on whether my decision to uphold this 
complaint is dependent on a specific item of evidence provided to me.
As Ive already explained, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided 
to me to reach my decision; its not necessary for me to comment on a theoretical outcome 
in circumstances where some of the evidence presented to me didnt exist.
Mr As representative also responded and asked me to also consider compensation for costs 
of telephone calls incurred related to Mr As claim. The representative provided me with 
copies of call logs and a mobile phone bill showing total charges of £69.75 for international 
calls and £30.12 for international data usage charged during the period Mr A was in hospital 
overseas.
Whilst Mr As representative incurred these charges in connection with Mr As admission to 
hospital and making contact with Mr As travel insurance provider, Mr As representative is 
not a customer of URV and even if he were, Mr As travel insurance policy specifically 
excludes cover for the cost of telephone calls. I appreciate Mr As representative will be 
unhappy with my decision on this aspect of the complaint, but telephone costs incurred by a 
friend or family member is not something, in my experience, a travel insurance policy is likely 
to cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in line with my provisional decision detailed 
above.  And that means within 28 days of this service telling Union Reiseversicherung AG 
Mr As estate accept this decision  it should:
Refund Mr As estate for the cost of the air ambulance to return Mr A home, adding 
8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Accept the remainder of the claim under the remaining policy terms; and
Add 8% simple interest* to any payments made from the time the payments were 
made to the date of settlement
*If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr As estate how much its taken off. It should also give Mr As estate a tax 
deduction certificate if it asks/ask for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman