DRN-3220861
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Advantage, I include the intermediary and others insofar as I hold 
Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
On 21 October 2018 and again on and 29 October 2018, Mr P exceeded a speed limit of 30 
miles per hour. Later, each of these offences was added to his driving licence details as an  
SP30 and 3 penalty points.
In June 2021, Mr P took out motor insurance through an insurance intermediary. Mr P 
incorrectly declared one SP50 dated October 2018 instead of the two SP30s.
Advantage was the insurance company that was responsible for setting premiums and 
dealing with any claims. 
The yearly cost of the insurance was going to be about £892.00 including interest for paying 
by instalments. Mr P paid about £74.00 when he took out the policy.
In late July 2021, he paid a further  instalment of about £74.00. At around the same time, 
Advantage asked Mr P to pay an additional premium of about £600.00 because he had the 
two SP30s rather than an SP50. 
Mr P cancelled the policy from early August 2021. He complained to the intermediary that it 
shouldve made a refund.
By a final response dated 9 August 2021, the intermediary turned down the complaint. Mr P 
brought his complaint to us within a few days.
We have dealt separately with the complaint against the intermediary relating to its charges. 
Im dealing with the complaint against Advantage relating to its increased premium.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage treated Mr P fairly, and in line with the way any other consumer in Mr Ps position 
wouldve been treated.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Different insurance companies assess risk and set premiums in different ways. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant say that lower premiums are more correct than higher premiums.
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) imposes a duty 
on a consumer to take care to avoid making a misrepresentation when taking out insurance.
I accept Advantages evidence that the increased premium for Mr P was set by an automatic 
calculation without any manual adjustment. I accept that Advantage wouldve quoted the 
same premium to any other customer in the same situation as Mr P. So I dont find that 
Advantage treated Mr P unfairly  notwithstanding the large increase.
I note that Mr P chose to cancel the policy rather than to pay the increased premium for the 
year. 
We have dealt separately with the complaint about the intermediarys fees of about £85.00.
Advantage charged about £74.00 for the time of just over a month of cover. I consider that 
this was a fair proportion of what the yearly premium was before the increase.
Overall I dont find that Advantage treated Mr P unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Advantage to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman