DRN-2695043
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs K held a home emergency policy with British Gas that provided repairs in the event of 
breakdown or damage to the boiler, central heating system and plumbing and drains. It also 
included an annual service of the boiler.
 
In August 2020 Mrs K had an appointment for an annual service of her boiler, the first 
service since October 2018 (although the policy notes that annual services may be more 
than 12 months apart). But the engineer did not keep the appointment. The service was re-
booked for September 2020, but the boiler broke down a few days after the original 
appointment. An engineer visited Mrs Ks home the following day and inspected the boiler. 
He concluded that the boiler was beyond economical repair due to a fault with the heat 
exchanger. The engineer also stated that the boiler failure wasnt covered under Mrs Ks 
policy and referred to a comment made about the boiler at the time of the previous service in 
October 2018 that said Recommend new boiler with a Powerflush.
Mrs K took issue with British Gas declining her claim and subsequently cancelling her policy. 
Following the cancellation Mrs K engaged her own engineer to install a new boiler, which 
they did in September 2020. As part of the installation the engineer took water samples from 
the central heating system to test the water quality. He concluded that the water quality was 
good. Subsequently Mrs K had the water sample tested independently by a specialist firm, 
which concluded that the water quality met the relevant standard.
Mrs K complained to British Gas about their decision to decline her claim and cancel her 
policy, maintaining that they had failed to deliver the boiler service element of her policy for 
nearly two years and by not repairing the boiler when it broke down. She also maintained 
that water quality was not the cause of the breakdown.
In September 2020 in their Final Response Letter, British Gas confirmed the decision 
to reject Mrs Ks claim for repair to the boiler, notwithstanding their initial indication 
that they would honour the claim. British Gas also stated that the fault with the heat 
exchanger was, as a water carrying element, linked to the recommendation of their 
engineer in October 2018 that Mrs K have a Powerflush of their central heating 
system due to sludge and/or blockages in the system. British Gas referred to the 
terms and conditions of the policy that, under the section headed Making any 
improvements:
If weve told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to 
make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless work has 
been carried out. 
British Gas also confirmed their decision to cancel the policy (with effect from the 
date of their engineers visit in August 2020) based on a separate section of the 
policy terms and conditions, headed When we can cancel, that referred to one 
condition [when]:
We tell you to make permanent repairs or improvements, but you dont.
British Gas did acknowledge that an annual service of the boiler had not been carried 
out during the period of cover for the year to June 2020. They acknowledged that 
they had not contacted Mrs K to arrange the service (neither had Mrs K contacted 
British Gas to arrange it). While the policy terms and conditions did not provide for a 
refund of premium when an annual service wasnt carried out, they offered £65 to 
Mrs K in respect of the missed annual service.
Mrs K was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service 
in October 2020. The main points of her complaint were that British Gas had failed to 
provide the boiler service under the provisions of her policy, and that they shouldnt 
have declined to repair her boiler. Mrs K asked for reimbursement of the cost of a 
new boiler (£2,450), refund of the policy premiums between November 2018 and 
August 2010 (£420) and the cost of the independent test of water quality (£33). Mrs K 
was also unhappy at the terms and conditions of the British Gas policy that required 
customers to have a Powerflush of their central heating system.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ks complaint. The investigator concluded that 
while Mrs K disputed whether a Powerflush was discussed or required, the boiler 
could not have been repaired because of the non-availability of parts. And under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, the age of the boiler meant that British Gas would 
only have been liable for repair of the boiler, not its replacement. Based on these 
considerations the investigator concluded that he couldnt ask British Gas to do 
anything. The investigator also thought that British Gass offer of £65 for the missed 
annual service was fair.
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mrs K.
The main element of Mrs Ks complaint is that British Gas unfairly declined her claim for 
repair to the boiler, and that they should pay for the cost of a replacement boiler.
 
With respect to liability for repair to the boiler, there are two aspects that Ive considered. 
First, the rejection of Mrs Ks claim because of her not carrying out a Powerflush that British 
Gas maintain they recommended at the time of their engineers visit in October 2018 (the 
last recorded visit before the breakdown in August 2020).
Ive considered the evidence on this point. Ive noted that the note left by the engineer on the 
October 2018 visit stated that:
Recommend new boiler with a Powerflush.
Ive looked again at the terms and conditions of the policy and under the Whats not 
covered section they include a statement:Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you before that you 
need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush or a similar process, but 
you havent done so.
While there is some ambiguity in the engineers comment as to whether the Powerflush was 
recommended as part of (with) a new boiler being fitted (as opposed to a Powerflush being 
recommended irrespective of a new boiler being fitted) I think on balance that this is 
consistent with the reference in the terms and conditions to being told you before that you 
need to carry outa British Gas Powerflush or a similar process. Ive also noted the 
evidence from British Gas from their service records include, in respect of the October 2018 
visit, a note that states advised on flush. So Ive concluded that British Gas did tell Mrs K 
about the need to carry out a Powerflush. And as there is no evidence or indication that this 
was carried out, then the terms and conditions extract about damage caused by limescale, 
sludge or other debris would be applicable.
Ive also considered the issue that Mrs K maintains that the evidence from the test of the 
sample of water she commissioned when the new boiler was installed shows that there was 
no issue with the quality of the water in the central heating system. Her engineer has 
confirmed that the sample was taken before the installation of the new boiler. Based on this 
Mrs K maintains that there wasnt an issue with limescale, sludge or debris and therefore a 
Powerflush was unnecessary and British Gas should not have rejected their claim to repair 
the boiler for that reason.
British Gas maintains that, based on their service records, there were issues with sludge 
over the years that they covered Mrs Ks boiler and heating system. They point to draining of 
the system in 2015 and the replacement of various parts that are affected by the flow of 
water, as well as the addition into the system in 2018 of specialist cleaning fluid designed to 
remove sludge, scale and debris. British Gas also noted that their engineers had advised 
replacing the boiler, due to its age, since 2013. They also argue that the results of the water 
test carried out by the firm engaged by Mrs K are not conclusive evidence that the system 
did not require to be flushed. In addition, in response to queries raised by our investigator, 
British Gas have stated that their engineer saw sludge in the system during his visit in 
August 2020.
 
Considering all these points, on balance Ive concluded that the need for a Powerflush was 
discussed with Mrs K and Ive concluded that it was based on the engineers assessment of 
what was necessary to maintain the system in effective working order. While the evidence 
from Mrs Ks water test does not indicate an issue with water quality, I dont think it shows 
that the advice for a Powerflush wasnt appropriate at the point it was provided. 
 
The second issue Ive considered is that, notwithstanding the point about the 
appropriateness of the Powerflush advice and it not being carried out as the basis for the 
rejection of Mrs Ks claim and the cancellation of her policy, Mrs K maintains that British Gas 
should have repaired the boiler. 
In their response about Mrs Ks complaint to this service, British Gas stated that they would 
not have been able to obtain some of the parts that would have been necessary for a repair 
to the boiler (to the heat exchanger) as they were obsolete and not available. British Gas 
have provided a schedule of the parts needed for any repair to show those that are available 
(the majority) and the two that were not. British Gas have also said that while they cannot 
directly evidence their trying to obtain those parts from alternative sources, they have 
described the standard process that they adopt in these circumstances. Ive also considered 
the wording of the policy in this area, and noted that it refers to, under the heading 
Replacement parts:Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. Well 
try to provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same 
features or an identical make and model or type of fitting
If we cant get hold of the parts we may need to cancel your agreement (or part of 
it)
If weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but warned you that it might be difficult 
to find replacement parts, well do what we can, within reason, to fix it.
While that isnt conclusive evidence that the parts (or alternatives) couldnt have been 
obtained and the repair couldnt have been made, it does indicate that there isnt an absolute 
guarantee that a repair will always be possible.
 
Ive also noted that Mrs K told our investigator that she knew that parts were becoming 
difficult to obtain and so she decided to replace the boiler rather than attempt to repair it. The 
implication of this is that she didnt ask the engineer that installed the new boiler whether the 
old boiler could be repaired, which would have confirmed whether the necessary parts (or 
alternatives) were available and therefore whether a repair would have been possible.
 
Based on these factors, Ive concluded that British Gass position about the feasibility of a 
repair is reasonable, and that there is doubt that a repair could have been carried out.
With respect to liability for the cost of a new boiler, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ks policy, specifically the circumstances in which British Gas would pay for a 
replacement boiler. Ive noted that the Whats covered section states that:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
Its less than seven years old
Or, its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been 
continuously covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare 
agreement
Or it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your 
annual service within every period of agreement since we first covered you.
The evidence from British Gas is that the model of Mrs Ks boiler went out of production in 
2005, indicating that it was at least some 15 years old at the time of the breakdown in 
August 2020. So Ive concluded that as none of the above conditions apply, British Gas 
would not have been liable to replace the boiler, were they unable to repair it.
Regarding the missed annual service, and Mrs Ks request for a refund of premiums, Ive 
noted that while British Gas have no record of having contacted Mrs K for the service to be 
carried out theres also no indication of Mrs K having contacted British Gas to arrange a 
service. Ive noted that the policy is intended to provide repairs in the event of breakdown or 
damage to the boiler, central heating system and plumbing and drains. It also includes an 
annual service of the boiler. The premium for the policy is not broken down into elements, so 
its not possible to determine exactly what part of the overall premium relates to the annual 
service. Looking at the renewal notice for Mrs Ks policy in May 2020, the premium for the 
year to June 2020 (the period for which the annual service was missed) the overall premium 
was £228. In this context, I think that a compensation figure of £65 for the missed service is 
reasonable, as it would be one element of the policy. 
Mrs K also raised concerns about the terms and conditions of her policy relating to advice or 
recommendations for a Powerflush, and by implication the consequences under the policy terms where such advice or recommendations are not followed. I think there are two aspects 
to this issue. First, whether the terms and conditions are clear about the requirements, and 
the potential consequences if those requirements (for a Powerflush) are not met. Looking at 
the wording of the policy, I think the requirements and the potential consequences are clear, 
for example the reference to:
If weve told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to 
make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless work has 
been carried out. 
Similarly, I think its clear that not carrying out work when told about it may lead to 
cancellation of the policy.
The second aspect is whether those requirements, and the consequences of not meeting 
them, are themselves unfair or unreasonable. Ive concluded that it isnt unreasonable to 
give advice or make recommendations with the aim of maintaining a system in good working 
order, or to reduce the risk of problems occurring in the future. I also dont think its 
unreasonable that not following advice given or recommendations made should be 
considered where they may have a bearing on future problems or determining the cause of 
those problems. So I dont think the inclusion of these terms and conditions is either unclear 
or unreasonable. And it is for the policyholder to determine whether the policy is appropriate 
for their needs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Ks complaint 
and I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs K compensation of £65 for the missed annual service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman