DRN-4242783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that esure Insurance Limited have poorly handled a subsidence 
claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr P, Mrs P, and esure, includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties. So, Ill summarise events.
Mr and Mrs Ps home suffered from subsidence damage. The cause was a nearby 
tree owned by the council and Mr and Mrs Ps own vegetation. This was reported to 
esure in June 2020.
esure carried out investigations and sought to have the councils tree removed  it 
said a lengthy period of monitoring would be necessary to obtain its agreement.
Mr and Mrs P criticised delays and had their own structural report carried out by 
Company A. They subsequently had stabilisation works carried out. esure refused to 
cover these costs in full but made a contribution. It indicated the removal of 
vegetation on Mr and Mrs Ps own property  which it said they refused to do  
meant the stabilisation works werent necessary.
On the subject of a top bay window, esure said it would offer a 50% cash settlement 
towards replacement as it had said it had not been fitted correctly which had 
contributed towards window damage.
A previous complaint came to this Service regarding esures diagnosis of the cause 
of the damage being subsidence. This matter has been addressed separately and 
does not form part of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P complained about esures handling and decisions that followed. They 
asked for costs related to their own reports, compensation, and for esure to waive its 
£1,000 excess.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. esure provided very 
limited information on the complaint so her assessment was based on the available 
evidence. She said:
oesure was aware the removal of the councils tree was unlikely to be agreed. And 
that removal of the hedge on its own would not have stabilised the property. So 
esure shouldve explored other options at that time.
oMr and Mrs Ps action to have stabilisation works carried out themselves was 
reasonable in the circumstances. And these works wouldve always been 
necessary had esure done what it shouldve done. 
oesure had failed to evidence why faulty workmanship had contributed towards 
window damage, so it should cover the full cost and not 50% contribution.
oThe report Mr and Mrs P had commissioned did not change the outcome of the 
claim nor prove the damage was not due to subsidence as they had believed. So 
esure was not liable to pay for it.
oSo, esure should pay the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs P to achieve stabilisation, 
and window related works on receipt of appropriate receipts/invoices. She also 
awarded 8% simple interest and said esure should pay £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P agreed with the Investigators findings. They since raised additional 
concerns about premium costs, and hairline cracks that have followed completion of 
the works. Our Investigator has explained these matters do not fall under the scope 
of this complaint.
Our Investigator looked again and changed her mind on the subject of the window. 
She said it was evident Mr and Mrs P had put forward the damage to the window in 
question was not as a result of subsidence. So, it followed that esures specialist 
reporting the most likely cause of the damage as faulty packing around the top 
window was persuasive. And in turn, esures offer of 50% towards a cash settlement 
was reasonable given the exclusion related to faulty workmanship in the policy.
Mr and Mrs P still stood by their position that the previous assessment of subsidence 
was incorrect.
So, the matter has come to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P have been clear they still believe the cause of the damage in this case 
is not subsidence. This matter was addressed in a previous decision so I will not 
readdress it.
From esures internal notes and communications its apparent its own agents were of 
the belief the impacting council tree was unlikely to be removed by the council. The 
available evidence  detailed by our Investigator previously  also suggests the 
removal of vegetation on Mr and Mrs Ps property alone wouldnt have resolved the 
subsidence. 
In instances where a third partys position is holding up the progression of a claim 
and unlikely to change, wed expect the insurer to consider what other options would 
be available to it to stabilise a property.
In this instance, it seems esure did not take these steps. So, I think Mr and Mrs Ps 
instruction of a third party to carry out stabilisation works was reasonable in these 
particular circumstances. And were most likely steps esure wouldve needed to take 
to ensure an effective and lasting repair in line with its obligations  or at least esure 
has failed to demonstrate an alternative. It follows I am directing esure to cover these 
costs as Im satisfied it is necessary as part of an effective and lasting repair.
Mr and Mrs P said they want esure to waive their excess. An excess is the first part 
of a claim and set out in policy terms. Any distress or inconvenience caused by 
esures actions will be factored into compensation. So, Im not going to direct esure 
to waive this excess.
esure has refused to cover the costs of the report Mr and Mrs P obtained. As our 
Investigator has outlined, this did not materially impact the claim. So, this isnt a cost 
Id direct esure to cover. The window damage in question was put forward by Mr and Mrs P as not subsidence 
related. esure's position also concluded the damage was mainly caused by its faulty 
workmanship or design. So, Im satisfied the available evidence suggests the 
damage was caused by faulty design. In line with esures policy, Im persuaded it was 
able to rely on specific terms that exclude that type of damage. And it follows its offer 
to pay 50% of the costs was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied esure hasnt handled this claim promptly and fairly. And in the 
circumstances its evident this has caused avoidable distress and inconvenience to 
Mr and Mrs P. Taking into account the unavoidable stress attached to a claim of this 
nature, Im satisfied the sum of £200 compensation awarded is fair and reasonable in 
these particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint. esure Insurance Limited must:
Settle the stabilisation costs outstanding upon receipt of appropriate 
evidence/invoices.
Pay 8% simple interest on the above costs from the date Mr and Mrs P have paid 
them until payment is made.
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman