DRN-4023367
The complaint
Mr B complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited are contacting him to repay a debt 
when he had an arrangement in place with the original lender.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with a third-party lender. Unfortunately, Mr B was in an 
accident which meant that he wasnt able to work. Because of this in April 2019, the lender 
told him that it would put his account on hold and wouldnt ask him to make any repayments 
in the future.
In December 2020, the lender sold the debt and Link Financial were instructed to collect the 
outstanding debt on the debt purchasers behalf. Mr B says that Link Financial started 
contacting him by email, letter and phone requesting repayment of the debt. Mr B says that 
he explained the situation he was in and what had happened which had led to the debt being 
unpaid. Mr B says that Link Financial werent interested in what he said and just told him that 
the debt needed repaying otherwise it would take further action against him.
Mr B says he would like Link Financial to stop harassing him for repayment of the debt. He 
says that other creditors have acted more favourably towards him by either writing off the 
debt in full or allowing him to make repayments of £1 a month.
Our Investigator considered the matters raised by Mr B however, they didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, they explained that Link Financial werent doing 
anything wrong by contacting Mr B about the outstanding debt. And they didnt think that the 
communication by Link Financial had been excessive or inappropriate in tone. 
Mr B didnt agree with the Investigators outcome. He reiterated that the original lender had 
put the account on hold and said he didnt need to make further payments to the account, so 
Link Financial shouldnt be contacting him about the debt. Mr B said that he had contacted 
Link Financial and let them know about his situation, but they werent empathetic or 
professional and were only concerned with repayment of the debt.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the available evidence, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, however Ill explain my 
reasons for this below.
When the lender sold the debt to the debt purchaser in December 2020, Mr Bs relationship 
with the original lender had, in effect, come to an end. While I appreciate Mr B feels that he 
shouldnt have to make repayments to Link Financial, because of an agreement he says had 
in place with the original lender, I dont agree this is the case.
I can see the original lender agreed to put the account on hold for at least 30 days  this 
letter dates back to April 2019. And it said it didnt expect him to make a payment to the debt 
at that time. But when the debt was sold to the debt purchaser, I can also see that the lender 
sent Mr B a letter in January 2021 letting him know that if he wasnt currently making 
repayments towards the debt, that Link Financial would be in touch to come to a repayment 
arrangement. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this debt was ever written off, and 
so there is a legitimate balance outstanding. I dont find that Link Financial have done 
anything wrong in contacting Mr B for repayment of the debt in these circumstances. 
Ive looked at copies of the letters Link Financial says it sent to Mr B. There isnt anything in 
the letters that I find to be inappropriate in tone. And based on the contact history Ive seen, I 
also dont find the level of contact Link Financial has had with Mr B to be excessive.
I appreciate that Mr Bs circumstances mean that it might be more difficult to him to make 
repayments to the debt. I can see that Link Financial have asked Mr B to speak to its 
specialist team to see if they can help with a way forward. The notes Link Financial have 
sent to this service suggest that Mr B has declined to speak to the specialist team. Link 
Financial have also explained that this specialist team can discuss Mr Bs situation with him 
and work towards a way forward. I cant see that Mr B has yet spoken to this team, so that 
option is still available to Mr B. I dont find that Link Financial requesting that Mr B speak to 
its specialist team is unreasonable. And its possible that if Mr B does do this then the parties 
might be able to agree on a suitable resolution.
Overall, I cant fairly say that Link Financial has done anything wrong in this case. There is 
an outstanding debt here, that Link Financial has been asked to service which includes the 
collection of repayments. I havent seen anything that makes me think that Link Financial 
have been excessive in its communications, nor have I found that it has treated Mr B 
unfairly. 
I have noted that Mr B told this service that he wont be contacting Link Financial or making 
repayments to the debt. If Mr B does decide to do this, then its possible that Link Financial, 
or the debt purchaser, could take further action against him. So, although Ive no power to 
compel Mr B to take any action, Id encourage him to work with Link Financial to try and 
reach an agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman