DRN-3442948
Complaint
Mrs G has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mrs G with a loan for £5,000.00 in April 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £240. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mrs G with this loan. So he thought that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Gs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs G could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit check Avant Credit carried out clearly demonstrated that Mrs G was significantly 
indebted and that she was over her credit limit on more than one of her account. 
Furthermore, the payments to this loan meant that almost half of Mrs Gs income was going 
to debt repayments. 
So Im persuaded by what Mrs G has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible her indebtedness was because of choice rather than 
because she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this 
is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mrs Gs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Gs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs G. 
As Avant Credit provided Mrs G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs G has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs G lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs G
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mrs G by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs G paid as a result of her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman