DRN-3139524
The complaint
Mr B complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled then declined his claim 
against his medical insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
In summary, Mr B has private medical insurance with AXA. Unfortunately, in July 2020, 
Mr B had an accident and injured his spine. On 17 September 2020, Mr B contacted 
AXA in order to make a claim. AXA directed Mr B to its GP service. 
On 18 September 2020, Mr B obtained a GP referral to an orthopaedic specialist and on 
19 September 2020, he contacted AXA again. On 21 September 2020, AXA gave Mr B 
the names of specialists it recognised and told Mr B that once hed seen the specialist, 
discussed the surgery and shared the details with AXA, it could confirm whether the 
surgery was covered under the policy. 
On 5 October 2020, Mr B told AXA that hed  arranged an appointment with one of the 
specialists and on 26 October 2020 he sent AXA certain documentation. On 6 November 
2020, Mr B chased AXA for a response. 
On 10 November 2020, AXA told Mr B that it required additional information from him, 
including a procedure code. On 14 November 2020, Mr B re-sent AXA documents. AXA 
responded on 23 November 2020 to say, amongst other things, that it required a 
procedure code. 
On 25 November 2020, Mr B gave AXA two procedure codes. AXA told Mr B that it 
needed additional information and that it would contact his specialist, which it did on     
26 November 2020. AXA repeated its request to Mr Bs specialist on 30 November 2020 
and contacted the specialist further on 2, 4, 7, 9,16,17, 21, 22, 24 and                           
29 December 2020.  
On 1 January 2021, Mr B contacted AXA and told it that hed postponed the date of his 
operation because of the delays in it confirming cover. On 4 January 2021, AXA 
confirmed cover for the decompression procedure for central spinal stenosis but declined 
cover for kyphoplasty. It said that Mr Bs membership doesnt cover treatment which 
hasnt been established as being effective or which is unproven. It said that under the 
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance, it would expect to 
see notes of a multidisciplinary team meeting before authorising that treatment and 
those notes hadnt been made available here. 
Mr B says that it was only on 4 January 2021 - two days before his planned surgery -  
that AXA told him that it would not cover his claim. He doesnt understand why AXA took 
so long to deal with the matter. Mr B wants AXA to pay for the surgery and to 
compensate him for the poor service he received. He said that hes waiting in agony for 
spinal surgery. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr B unfairly either in declining Mr Bs claim in part or in handling the claim.  
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary, that he e-mailed AXA 
multiple times to remind it that he required approval for his operation and AXA didnt 
treat his claim as urgent. He doesnt believe that AXA contacted his specialist on multiple 
occasions. Mr B said that hed paid his premium for many years but when he needed 
treatment AXA lost interest. 
The investigator considered what Mr B said but didnt change her view. Mr B said that 
AXA was aware from 23 September 2020 that he was claiming for any necessary 
treatment and he doesnt understand AXAs excuse for the delay was its inability to 
contact the specialist. Mr B asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows: 
Do I need to provide any other information?
4.2 It may not always be possible to assess the eligibility of your claim from the claim form 
alone. In such situations we will require additional information. Where we request that you 
provide additional information it is your responsibility to provide any reasonable additional 
information to enable us to assess your claim.
6 Your cover for certain types of treatment
What is eligible treatment?
Your policy covers eligible treatment. We consider treatment of a medical condition to be 
eligible when:
[]
It is conventional treatment
[]
Conventional treatment is defined as treatment that:
is established as best medical practice and is practised widely within the UK; and
is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided
and has either
been shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical condition 
through substantive peer-reviewed clinical trials in published authoritative medical 
journals or
been approved by NICE () as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.Ive considerable sympathy with Mr B and dont doubt that this is a worrying and frustrating 
time for him. But Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint because I dont think that AXA treated 
him unfairly. I say that because:
As Ive set out above, Mr Bs policy provides that its his responsibility to provide any 
reasonable additional information AXA needs to assess his claim. I dont think that 
AXA was at fault in asking Mr B and his specialist for additional information in this 
case.
Ive looked carefully at the chronology of events shown in the information Mr B has 
provided and in AXAs notes. Im satisfied that AXA pursued its request for 
information from Mr Bs specialist. It made the request promptly after Mr B had 
provided the procedure codes and chased the specialist for a response on multiple 
occasions. Its possible that adaptations to hospital working practices in response to 
Covid-19 delayed the specialists response  theres a reference to certain 
documents being inaccessible. And some of the delay in the specialist providing what 
was required may have been caused by the Christmas break. But neither of those 
things are AXAs responsibility. 
Mr Bs policy covers treatment thats established as best medical practice and is 
practised widely in the UK and clinically appropriate and either been shown to be 
safe and effective through substantive peer review or approved by NICE. In this 
case, its reasonable for AXA to look to the guidance issued by NICE.
NICEs guidance in relation to kyphoplasty says, amongst other things, that the 
procedure should only be undertaken with prior discussion by a specialist 
multidisciplinary team that includes a radiologist and spinal surgeon. 
From 26 November 2020 onwards, AXA asked Mr Bs treating specialist for several 
documents, including notes of the multidisciplinary team meeting. Eventually, in late  
December 2020, it was established that a multidisciplinary team meeting hadnt taken 
place. So, AXA concluded that one part of the treatment Mr B required wasnt 
conventional treatment, as defined by the policy. I dont think that AXA was at 
fault in coming to that view. As one of the procedures wasnt a conventional 
treatment, it wasnt eligible treatment under the policy. AXA told Mr B about that on   
4 January 2021.
I appreciate that in early January 2021, Mr B postponed his operation and that AXAs 
subsequent notification that it declined part of his claim came very close to the date 
on which the operation was planned. But, based on what Ive seen, I think that AXA 
was waiting for relevant information from the treating specialist for some time and 
subsequently wasnt at fault in concluding that one of the procedures Mr B required 
cover for wasnt eligible treatment within the terms of his policy.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman