DRN-3854826
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act (CCA) in respect 
of the purchase of several holiday products.
What happened
Mrs G, along with her husband, entered into agreements to purchase timeshares on 9 April 
2008, 20 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 19 December 2012 funded by loans from BPF. 
Although the purchases were in joint names the loans were taken out by Mrs G and for 
simplicity I will refer to her as the sole purchaser in this decision.
After the first purchase she says that she was persuaded to make several upgrades and I 
gather the final loan was for £18,215. We do not have full details of the various contracts and 
loan agreements, but it is not disputed that the agreements were entered into and that the 
loans were taken out.
Unhappy with the purchases Mrs G made a claim under S 75 CCA for misrepresentation on 
4 October 2018. I gather there were a number of reasons including a lack of availability and 
difficulty in booking holidays. She says she would not have made the four purchases on 9 
April 2008, 20 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 19 December 2012 but for the 
misrepresentations made each time.
BPF rejected her claim and so she brought a complaint to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. I note that she subsequently 
raised a complaint about the affordability of the loans, but she had not brought this to the 
attention of BPF and so this is being pursued separately.
Our investigator said that the claims made in respect of the first three purchases had been 
made out of time. With regard to the final purchase she could not identify clear evidence that 
there had been misrepresentation.
Mrs G did not agree and asked that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman. She 
said she had tried to dispose of the timeshare in 2010 but the seller hadnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim under S 75 CCA 
Mrs G says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to her 
when she bought it. However, under both S 2 and 9 LA, Mrs G had to make that claim within 
six years of when she entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was on 9 
April 2008, 20 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 19 December 2012  because that is when 
she says she says she lost out having relied on false statements of fact. 
As Mrs G made a claim in October 2018, the first three purchases fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA. 
The claim under S 140A CCA 
While only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under S 75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under S 140A CCA. Under 
S 9 LA, Mrs G had to make her claim within six years of when the loans ended. Although we 
do not have full details it would appear that the existing loan was taken out for the final 
purchase with the other loans paid off by it. I have concluded that there is no route to a 
timely claim using S 140 A for the first three loans. 
Could the limitation period be extended? 
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. 
Misrepresentation
I must consider whether BPF acted reasonably in rejecting the claim of misrepresentation in 
regard to the final loan.
Mrs G has told us that she had difficulty in making bookings, but I believe she did manage to 
make at least one booking. I do not have any details as to what she was told at the time of 
the sale and what the misrepresentation was that gave rise to her claim. 
The limited documentation I have seen does not assist me in identifying any 
misrepresentation. It merely shows that she has the right to redeem points for 
accommodation, but I have not seen the full terms and conditions to which she signed up.
As our investigator has explained we need to consider if the business was presented with 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that there had been misrepresentation. I have to agree 
that BPF was not given sufficient clear detail to support the claim and I can only conclude it 
was reasonable for it to reject the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman