DRN-1934402
 
The complaint
Mrs D on behalf of herself and the late Mr Ds estate complain that they were mis-sold 
regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) by Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B).
What happened
Mr and Mrs D jointly took out advances on their mortgage with B&B in 1988 and 1991. On 
both occasions they were sold PPI. The PPI was taken in Mrs Ds sole name and wouldve 
covered repayments on their mortgage if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness on 
the 1988 policy for the duration of the mortgage. And for accident or sickness and 
unemployment on the 1991 policy for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that they had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit.
Mrs D a disagrees. She says they werent given enough information on the policies and it 
wasnt suitable for their needs.
 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint on either sale.
B&B had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that they had a choice in taking out the policy.  
Mrs D says this wasnt done but hasnt provided much detail about what was said to make 
them think this. Given the length of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mrs D to have a 
detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what the documents from 
the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
B&B have given us a copy of the mortgage applications for both the 1988 and 1991 sales. 
On the 1988 application I can see that under the section that deals with PPI that YES is 
written in the box next to the words Do you wish to take advantage of the Societys very 
competitive Payment Protection Insurance and that Mrs D and her late husband have 
signed the mortgage application just below this. 
And on the 1991 application they were given the option to select cover for accident and 
sickness, accident or sickness and unemployment (full cover) or no cover at all. I can see 
that full cover was selected with a tick.    
So because they were given different options with regards to the level of cover, on balance, I 
think it was clear from the paperwork that Mr and Mrs D a had a choice in taking out PPI. 
And I think they chose to cover Mrs D only because it suited their needs with Mrs D being 
the sole income earner at the time. 
From what we know of B&B PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What this 
means is that B&B didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs D, it just gave them information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if B&B did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I think 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve still taken the policy if they were given all the proper information. I 
say this because at the time of the sale:
 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy.
It doesnt look like Mrs D wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
Mrs D say she was entitled to a generous level of both redundancy and sick pay 
which they could use to make their mortgage payments if she couldnt work. But as 
the sale wasnt advised it was up to Mr and Mrs D to assess their own circumstances 
and needs and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for 
potentially longer for up to 24 months per claim.   
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs D in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if Mrs D was unable to work and meet 
their mortgage repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to them and if they no longer 
wanted the policy they were able to cancel it. 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to the late Mr 
D and Mrs D on the PPI. I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value 
to them.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But B&B has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, B&B expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about 
that. Because B&B didnt tell them, that was unfair. To put that right, B&B has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and the 
estate of Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman