DRN-3017312
The complaint
Miss M has complained about her motor insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) because 
when her car was returned to her after it had completed some accident repairs, there was a 
fault on its adaptive cruise control (ACC) system.
What happened
Miss M had an accident in January 2020, damage was caused to the front end of Miss Ms 
car and Esure arranged to repair it. Miss Ms car was returned to her on 10 February 2020, 
but Miss M noted a fault with the parking assistance system. Esure wasnt persuaded this 
was related to the accident or work it had done but took the car back and ultimately 
completed a repair of a loose wire to the cars computer unit (ECU).
On 2 March 2020 Esures customer care team was valeting Miss Ms car prior to arranging 
to return it to her. At 21:44 on 4 March 2020, after the cars return, whilst Miss M was driving 
it, a warning message appeared on the dashboard. Miss M took a photo. The message read: 
ACC and Front Asist: no sensor view. Miss M contacted Esure. Esure said that whilst it had 
fixed the parking issue before, it had done so as a goodwill gesture as it believed that fault 
had pre-dated the accident and its repairs. Esures diagnostic contractor explained that this 
was all part of the same issue and Esures engineer told Miss M that, if she didnt agree, 
shed need to provide proof from her dealership.
With the pandemic ensuing around this time it was June 2020 before Miss M had the car 
further assessed. Miss Ms dealership, using global fault finding (GFF) diagnostics 
determined the warning was being caused by a fault with the radar system that informs the 
cars ACC and Front Assist functions. The dealership reported that a close inspection of the 
radar unit (which sits under but proud of the front registration plate in the centre of the front 
of the car) showed damage from an impact and that one of its brackets was bent and/or 
damaged. The whole process was captured on video. Replacement was recommended with 
an estimate produced for work, which included the diagnostics already undertaken and VAT, 
of £2,004.64.
Miss M returned to Esure and its engineer reviewed the matter, including the new data from 
the dealership. Esures engineer was initially minded to think this damage might have been 
caused during the accident. However, he then noted that various checks using ODIS 
(Offboard Diagnosis Information System) had been completed on the car since it was initially 
damaged and this fault hadnt been found. He then compared a still image taken from the 
dealerships diagnostic video and one of the front of the car when it initially came in for repair 
following the accident in January 2020. The engineer said he could see no sign of damage 
to the radar unit in January 2020. He also said the radar unit hadnt been removed during the 
work to fix the parking system fault. So he thought the damage was most likely unrelated to 
either the accident or Esures repairs. When Esure told Miss M that it wasnt prepared to pay 
for the replacement radar unit, she complained to us. 
Our investigator felt it was fair to say that the damage had likely not been caused in the 
accident. But wasnt persuaded it was most likely it had happened after the car had left 
Esures control on or after 2 March 2020 and before 21:44 hours on 4 March 2020, whilst in 
Miss Ms control. So he said Esure should pay for repair of the radar.
Miss M was happy with that outcome. Esure said it disagreed with the findings. Its engineer 
reiterated his view that the damage to the radar unit was new damage unrelated to the 
accident and which had not been identified until June 2020. The engineer also 
acknowledged/explained that this was a different fault to the parking system issue. The 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I also felt it should be upheld; that the fault with the radar was unlikely to be a new issue. But 
my reasoning differed to that of the investigator. I issued some provisional findings:
I note that Esures engineer, whilst he later changed his mind, initially conceded that this 
damage might have been caused during the crash. Having seen the crash damage photos, 
given the location of the radar unit and the accepted impact damage which occurred to the 
front end of the car, including the cracking of the number plate immediately above the unit; 
I think thats a fair assessment. And I dont think those photos rule out the possibility that the 
radar unit, including one of its brackets, is damaged. I say that as the brackets for the unit 
arent visible in the photos. But also because the impact damage to the front of the unit, at 
the top, simply may not be visible in these photos due to the lighting, distance and angle of 
the shot (daylight, several feet away, from the side). The still from the dealership video 
shows that the unit is under artificial light, with the camera or focus of the camera quite 
close, from a position in front of and slightly above the unit.
Im also not persuaded that the diagnostic tests Esures said were completed on the car rule 
out the possibility that this damage and fault werent caused by the crash. As I understand it 
the dealership found the fault using the GFF diagnostic programme and whilst this is part of 
the ODIS system, it is an optional process that can be switched off. I havent seen any 
evidence that makes me think Esures contractors used the GFF part of the ODIS 
programme. 
Further, Esures contractor ran an ODIS test on 28 February 2020, around the time it traced 
and fixed the parking sensor fault. The invoice captures the tests results and shows that all 
systems [are] operational. But I note that the dealership, when identifying the radar fault, 
recorded the following: Vehicle status shows no fault with system. It was seemingly when 
further GFF checks were done that the in-put error; ie that the radar wasnt feeding 
information to the ACC system, was found.
In March 2020 Esures contractor doesnt seem to have run any further diagnostic checks. At 
least none are shown on the invoice dated 11 March 2020. Rather the contractor seems to 
have only provided a report which sought to suggest that this radar fault was part of a 
historic parking system fault it had identified with the car earlier on in the repair process. But 
Im not persuaded, given that the parking and ACC systems (the ACC being the system the 
radar feeds information too) are two entirely different processes, performing two entirely 
different functions, that that is likely correct. And I note that Esures engineer has confirmed 
the two issues are separate and unrelated.
I know that Esures engineer has concerns that the dealership only saw and assessed the 
car several months after it was returned to Miss M. However, I note Miss M took a photo of 
the fault warning on 4 March 2020  the dashboard shows the time was 21:44 and the 
properties of the photo confirm the date. So I dont think it matters that the diagnosis for the 
fault only occurred sometime later. 
Im also not persuaded that, assuming for a moment the radar wasnt damaged during the 
crash, that its most likely it wasnt damaged during Esures care. It seems that the external 
parts of the cars front end were removed by Esures contractors during late February in 
order to repair the loose ECU wire. It isnt clear whether the radar unit was entirely disconnected, certainly Esures engineer says it remained in place. But I think its fair to say, 
given the photos Ive seen of the car, both intact and whilst under repair, that it was certainly 
moved and/or partially disconnected. Further the car around the unit was clearly undergoing 
significant work. As I said above, the last diagnostic Esures contractor, based about 
50 miles from Miss Ms home, ran was 28 February 2020, and on 2 March 2020 the car was 
being prepared by Esures customer care team for return to Miss M. How the car was 
transferred between the contractor and customer care, and then to Miss M hasnt been 
disclosed. So the radar unit was at least moved and/or partially disconnected whilst work 
around it went on and the car was in Esures care for at least three days after the contractor 
last ran a diagnostic on it. Further the car was transported by Esure after that diagnostic. 
When the car was prepared and returned to Miss M in early March 2020, I think she had it 
for only around two days before the warning appeared. I say that as she was told on 2 March 
that it was being prepared for return to her. So it could only have been later that day, at the 
earliest, that it was returned to her. And the warning appeared on the night of 4 March 2020. 
So the car was in her possession for less time than it remained with Esure after its last 
diagnostic was completed. And, from what Ive seen, the warning message in question is not 
of the type that  if the damage/fault was already present  would show on the dashboard as 
soon as the car was started. So the fact Miss M didnt see it, or it didnt appear until 21:44 on 
4 March 2020 doesnt mean the damage/fault wasnt present before that time. 
Having seen everything I think it's more likely, on balance, that the radar unit was either 
damaged in the accident or whilst in Esures care, than whilst being in Miss Ms care after 
2 March 2020. As such I think its reasonable to say that Esure should pay for the work to be 
done to fix the unit. The dealership, as of last year, said that will cost £2,004.64. So I think 
Esure should pay this sum, plus interest*.
I think this situation has been frustrating for Miss M and she clearly feels let down by Esure. 
Further whilst she seems to have been able to drive the car in the interim its clear this 
important safety function hasnt been working. So Im minded to award £100 compensation 
for this. Whilst I note Esure has paid Miss M compensation previously for other issues 
experienced with the repair process, it has never accepted liability for this problem. So I think 
a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this issue is fairly and 
reasonably due. 
In reply Miss M provided further evidence about what shed paid already to diagnose the 
fault and what it was now going to cost her to repair the car. So I issued some further 
findings to both parties which, in short, said that Esure should pay the £60 diagnostic fee 
Miss M had already incurred, plus interest and the price of the new estimate for repair less 
VAT; £1,819.76 (with the VAT of £363.95 being payable by it once work was done). 
Esure said it was generally unhappy with my findings. It said it would like me to explain what 
evidence I had considered in order to conclude the car had likely been damaged in the 
accident or in its care, rather than once returned to Miss M. Esure said as we are an 
evidence based service I should accept the evidence it had presented and not make 
decisions based on likelihoods. It said it would be prepared to pay half of Miss Ms repair 
costs and the £100 compensation. 
Miss M said shed spent a lot of time on this matter. She asked that I award the cost of the 
new estimate, plus £1,000 compensation (increased from £100). Miss M concluded that 
there needed to be an incentive for Esure to not do this again.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Evidence provided to this service is always subject to scrutiny and assessment. Having 
considered the evidence, it is then my job to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
I appreciate Esure doesnt agree with my assessment of the evidence provided. But I set out 
my reasoning in full in my provisional decision which explained the evidence I had seen. My 
findings also explained what weight I had given to the evidence provided, by both parties, 
and which evidence, and why, I found most persuasive. Ive nothing to add to that. So whilst 
I note Esures offer to pay half of Miss Ms repair cost, Im not persuaded that would be a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Whilst my view on Esures liability for the damage hasnt changed since I issued my 
provisional decision, I have been given cause to amend my suggested redress. Miss M 
should be able to have her car fixed and shes now shown what the current cost will be for all 
necessary work. And Esure hasnt raised any concerns about the new estimate. So it seems 
fair to me to base my redress on that figure, and make Esure pay Miss M £1,819.76. And in 
line with our usual process, VAT on the repair costs, £363.95, should be paid by Esure once 
Miss M submits an invoice to it showing the work has been done and VAT has become due. 
And, in line with my previous findings, Miss M paid a £60 diagnostic fee previously too, so 
its only fair shes reimbursed for that as well.
I appreciate that Miss M has been caused distress and inconvenience because of Esures 
actions. I understand that Miss M has felt shes had to take some time off work to visit 
garages. But Im not persuaded that was entirely necessary, and Ive not seen that she lost 
income as a result either. I also dont award compensation in a punitive manner  to prevent 
a business from making failures or causing upset in the future. Instead awards of 
compensation are made to address the distress and inconvenience in the specific 
circumstances of the case. I remain of the view that, for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss M by this failure of Esures, £100 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.   
 
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Miss M:
£60 to reimburse the initial diagnostic cost, plus interest from 12 June 2020 (the receipt 
date) until settlement is made.
£1,819.76 being the price of the new estimate, less VAT.
Once a VAT invoice is received, £363.95 to cover Miss Ms VAT outlay.
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Miss M, it should tell her how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman