DRN-2080112
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have travel insurance as a benefit on their Nationwide package bank account. 
They did not have optional cruise cover but had purchased an extension to the policy to 
cover the duration of their holiday and enhanced cancellation cover.
On 6 February 2020 Mr and Mrs O were due to fly to another country before joining a cruise 
departing on 15 February 2020. The cruise was due to last several weeks and included a 
one night stay in China. 
On 28 January 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) issued guidance against 
all but essential travel to China due to Covid-19 (Coronavirus). Mr O tried to contact the 
cruise company to find out whether the cruise itinerary was going to change. He says that he 
didn't receive a response, so he cancelled the cruise on 4 February. He didn't contact 
UKI before making the cancellation. 
Mr O made a claim on his travel insurance policy on 5 February 2020. The cruise cost 
approximately £20,000 and Mr O hadn't received a refund from the travel agent or the cruise 
company at that time. In summary, he says he was told by UKI that the FCO hadn't advised 
against all but essential travel to his destination in China as it wasn't on the mainland. UKI's 
letter declining the claim says they could only refund parts of the trip where the FCO had 
advised against travel, which was the destination in China. 
Mr O made a complaint to our service. Since then, he's received a full refund from his travel 
agent for the cruise. But Mr O says he still has lost out because he incurred some expenses 
such as unused accommodation, car hire and visa charges for the first part of their trip. UKI 
is looking into this as a separate complaint. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didn't uphold Mr and Mrs O's 
complaint. She didn't think it was unreasonable of UKI to decline the claim for cancellation. 
She explained that on the date Mr and Mrs O planned to leave the FCO weren't advising 
against all but essential travel to the country Mr and Mrs O were travelling to or the majority 
of countries on the cruise itinerary. The FCO was advising against travel to China but she 
noted the stop off in China was due to be short one and that cruise itineraries can often be 
changed. She also explained that the FCO didn't advise against all but essential travel until 
17 March, which was several weeks after Mr and Mrs O's planned departure date. And, she 
said that Mr and Mrs O hadn't experienced a financial loss as they'd now received  a full 
refund from the cruise company and their claim for the other expenses was still being 
considered. 
The investigator also explained that she'd not been able to listen to the call recordings 
but, even if she accepted Mr and Mrs O's testimony on this point, she wouldn't award 
compensation as the decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
Mr O didn't agree. He said that it was essential to listen to the calls. In summary, he said UKI 
had searched for reasons to reject the claim and the policy terms make no mention of the 
insurer being able to make a pro-rata refund for parts of the trip. Mr O says that the criteria 
for cancellation was met as the FCO was advising against travel to one of his ports of call 
and so the claim should have been paid. He believes they are now dragging their heels in 
relation to the outstanding amount he's still trying to claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have now received a refund for the cost of their cruise. As I outlined above 
UKI is considering a separate claim for some outstanding expenses. In response to 
our investigator's opinion on the case Mr O commented on the information UKI has asked for 
and suggested that UKI are taking too long to deal with the claim. But these issues do not 
form part of this complaint and so I will not address them in my decision. The crux of this 
complaint is whether it was fair for UKI to decline Mr and Mrs O's original claim for the 
cancellation of their cruise. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Section eight of the Regulator's Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) sets 
out UKI's responsibilities when handling claims.
ICOBS 8.1.1 says: 
An insurer must
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which cancellation is, and isn't 
covered. 
Reasons for cancellation include: 8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your Nationwide 
FlexAccount, or booked your trip whichever is later
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start date the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your destination. 
The advice must have come into force after you opened your Nationwide FlexAccount, or 
booked your trip whichever is later.
The policy also says UKI will not pay for: 
2. Any claim due to you not wanting to travel. 
Has UKI unreasonably declined the claim? 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O were in a difficult position because they weren't able to get 
an answer from their travel agent or the cruise company about whether the one night stop in 
China would be removed from the itinerary. However, I don't think UKI acted unreasonably 
by declining Mr and Mrs O's claim because: 
Mr and Mrs O hadn't purchased optional cruise cover which affords a greater level of 
protection to policyholders who are impacted by issues which are common in the 
cruise industry, such as changes to a cruise itinerary. So they weren't able to benefit 
from the more bespoke level of cover this option offered to policyholders going on a 
cruise
The cruise itinerary shows that Mr and Mrs O were due to spend one night of their 
cruise in China. On the 28 January 2020 the WHO advised against all but essential 
travel to mainland China. But the other countries on the cruise itinerary were not 
impacted by that guidance, including the country where Mr and Mrs O planned to join 
the cruise. I don't agree that, because one of the many ports of call was subject to 
FCO guidance against travel, it would be fair for UKI to cover cancelling the cruise, in 
its entirety, at a cost of around £20,000
Mr and Mrs O were due to travel on 6 February 2020 and, at that time, there was no 
FCO guidance in place to say that they couldn't travel to the country where they 
planned to spend some time ahead of joining their cruise. The FCO guidance against 
all but essential travel to that country didn't come into effect until 17 March 2020, 
which was several weeks after Mr and Mrs O decided to cancel their trip
The policy terms don't refer to UKI being able to pro-rata settlements for cancellation. 
But I also bear in mind that Mr and Mrs O hadn't purchased the optional cruise cover 
which would have afforded them greater protection for issues likely to affect cruise 
passengers, such as changes to the cruise itinerary or missed ports. So, I don't think 
the suggestion of a proportionate settlement was unreasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. In any event, Mr and Mrs O have now received a full refund so there is 
no financial loss in this case
The cruise company hadn't announced a change to their itinerary at the time Mr O 
cancelled. But he told UKI that the cruise company did change the itinerary and it did 
not go to mainland China. So, this further persuades me that it wasn't unreasonable 
for UKI to offer a full refund, particularly bearing in mind that the FCO wasn't advising 
against travel to the other destinations on the itinerary at that time or the country 
where Mr and Mrs O were planning to join the cruiseI accept that Mr O was incorrectly told that his destination wasn't considered part of 
mainland China when he first contacted UKI, which seems most likely to have been 
down to human error. But I don't think I need to listen to the calls Mr O has referred 
to in order to reach my decision in this case.  I've seen copies of the logs and, from
Mr O's description of the calls, I don't think UKI were trying to avoid paying the claim. 
It seems more likely to me that they were asking questions to try and establish 
whether there was cover under the policy. Ultimately, I remain satisfied the claim was 
correctly declined and this didn't impact on the outcome of the claim 
I am not persuaded any compensation is due in this case because I don't think the customer 
service failings Mr O has referred to justify an award for distress and inconvenience as the 
claim was correctly declined and the error was swiftly rectified. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman