DRN-2582627
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited (Tilney) cant trace 
investments that he made through them. He says that they have failed to keep records when 
they passed investments to other organisations.
What happened
Mr C held investments with Tilney and in 2015 asked his financial adviser to transfer these to 
another provider. I will call the two investments Investment A and investment B. Mr C 
thought that the investments had been transferred but later learned that the adviser had not 
been able to access investments A and B.
Tilney said that following the instruction from the adviser, they were removed as agents for 
investments A and B and could not assist in locating the investments. Tilney said that 
although they continued to present Mr C with an online valuation, they no longer had any 
authority over the two investments.
Tilney provided Mr C with details to contact the custodians of the two investments. Mr C was 
unhappy with Tilneys response and referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at his complaint. The investigator thought that Tilney had acted 
reasonably in dealing with Mr Cs complaint and did not think that they could have done 
anything else. The investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr C has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I agree with outcome reached by the investigator and wont 
be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and I will 
explain why I have reached this decision.
In his submission to the service, Mr C has forwarded a Tilney statement from 8 April 2013 
which shows investment A and B. Mr C has said that the assets were in his name at this 
point and Tilney are not able to account for them now and it was through their actions that 
the investments have been misplaced.
I have considered this and what Tilney have said about the investments. Tilney say that they 
were called by Mr Cs financial adviser on 17 April 2015 looking for policy information and a 
valuation of the account. They replied saying that they did not hold client assets and they 
would need to approach the custodians directly.
Tilney say following this, they received notification that they had been removed as agents for 
these investments. Tilney wrote to Mr C confirming this on 12 May 2015. Tilney have said 
that as they were no longer agents for the investments, they had no authority to act on Mr 
Cs behalf and this was the reason that they provided contact details for the custodians of 
investments A and B.
This is not a straightforward complaint as the registered owner of the assets is unclear. In 
order to find out if Tilney have done anything wrong, I need to look at the available 
documentation but there is little documentation over and above what has been described. As 
such, I need to look at whether Tilney have acted properly in directing Mr C to the custodians 
of investments A and B. Having done so, I think that Tilney have done all that they could 
have in the circumstances. I sympathise with Mr C that he is no closer in finding out what 
happened to the investments, but I cant hold Tilney responsible for this.
The investigator contacted the provider where Mr C wanted to transfer the assets to see if 
there was any information that could assist in resolving the complaint, but the provider 
wasnt able to add any further information that could help the investigator.
From the information available to me for review, I dont think that Tilney held the investments 
within their nominee as were not the registered owners of the assets. After Mr Cs adviser 
contacted them to find out information, they were removed as agents for the investments. 
After this, they did not have any authority to act for Mr C.
I know that Mr C feels strongly that Tilney have misplaced the investments that showed on 
his statement in 2013 but I do not have any evidence that Tilney have done anything wrong. 
When looking at a complaint, I can only the review the documentation available or deciding 
on the balance of probability, what may have happened.
I think that on the balance of probability, Mr Cs investments were transferred outside of the 
control of Tilney, but I cant see any evidence of wrongdoing or failure by Tilney.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman