DRN-2553739
The complaint
Mr R complains that Virgin Money PLC (Virgin) closed his account after removing the funds 
within it, to comply with a court order.
What happened
Mr R had a current and savings account with Virgin. In April 2019, Virgin received a court 
order requiring it to deduct £7,328.22 from Mr Rs savings account. Mr Rs account balance 
was £4,312.96, so Virgin deducted the full amount then closed Mr Rs account. It said the 
only way to complete the deduction was to close his account.
Mr R complained. He agreed Virgin was right to remove the balance, but thought it was 
unfair his account was closed by default. He noted Virgin no longer offered that particular 
account, so he couldnt simply re-apply for it.
Our investigator approached Virgin to say it seemed unfair to close Mr Rs account simply 
because its process required closure to complete the deduction. Virgin responded saying it 
wasnt the case that the account was closed because of Virgins systems or procedure. And 
that the account key product information for Mr Rs account requires a minimum operating 
balance of £1, so it had to be closed when the full balance was removed from the account.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr R, but felt she couldnt ask Virgin to do anything more 
for Mr R given the account operating requirements. Mr R said Virgin hadnt been fair and 
transparent, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account, along with the key product 
information. And Ive thought about what both Virgin and Mr R have told our service. In order 
to uphold Mr Rs complaint, I would have to be persuaded that Virgin had acted incorrectly or 
treated Mr R unfairly. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think it has.
In order to operate this particular account, Virgin requires a minimum balance of £1 at all 
times. And because Mr Rs account balance was less than the amount Virgin was required 
by the court to deduct, it had to deduct the full account balance. Which in turn meant Mr Rs 
account no longer complied with the minimum requirements.
Had Mr Rs balance been £7,329.22 or more, Virgin could have complied with the order and 
kept the account open with a balance of £1 or more. But with the balance as it was, I cant 
reasonably say Virgin treated Mr R unfairly by removing his account.
The court order was made in two parts: an interim order that required Virgin to confirm the 
balance and ensure the same was not reduced. And a final order that required Virgin to 
release the money to the party stated in the order. There was nothing to prevent additional 
sums being deposited into the account, and I note the account balance didnt increase and 
so remained below the £7,328.22 stated in the order.
What Mr R is effectively asking Virgin to do is put the ink back in the bottle and reinstate the 
account after the event. But given Mr Rs account didnt comply with the necessary 
requirements, I cant reasonably ask it to put things right, given its done nothing wrong.
There was a suggestion that Virgin couldve given Mr R notice before it closed the account. 
And that he wouldve been able to return the balance to £1, had it done so. But because 
Virgin had to first remove the balance of the account, it then became zero and so didnt 
comply with the requirements. 
So, it wouldve been too late for Mr R to add the required funds. The only way that couldve 
been circumvented is if Mr R increased his balance to £1 more than the amount stated in the 
court order. To do so wouldve required him to pay £3,016.26 or more into the account and 
Im not persuaded Mr R wouldve done so, simply to retain the account.
Our investigator did approach Virgin to ask if they would be prepared to do something for Mr 
R in light of the unusual circumstances, but it declined. It has said Mr R is welcome to apply 
for another account. And while I note the previous account is no longer available, Im sorry to 
say that I cant ask Virgin to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman