DRN-2362499
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc credited an incorrect amount to his bank account 
when he paid a cheque in.
What happened
On 16 July 2020, Mr H paid a cheque for £100,000 into his Barclays bank account with the 
intention the funds being available on 20 July. But when he checked his account on 19 July 
a deposit of only £10,000 was showing. The following day Mr H visited a Barclays branch, 
where he was told there had been an error and it could take up to seven days to sort out. Mr 
H needed the money to complete a property transaction by 24 July, otherwise he would have 
to pay a significant amount of money. Mr H borrowed the money from his mother. But 
Barclays credited the missing £90,000 on 22 July.
Mr H said he was distraught when he noticed the money was missing and as it was a 
Sunday he had to wait until the following day to speak to Barclays. He says that it caused a 
significant amount of inconvenience, upset and worry having to borrow the money from his 
mother  particularly in view of her age and circumstances. Mr H said that the situation also 
caused his mother a lot of anger and upset.
Our investigator thought that Barclays offer of £250 in addition to £25 already paid was fair 
in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt accept what the investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays made a mistake here. So I need to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right.
The starting point for me is to put the affected party back in the position they would have 
been in had the mistake not happened. In this case Mr H hasnt suffered any financial loss. 
He was able to complete his property transaction in time.
That leaves me to decide what is a fair amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr H has suffered as a result of this matter. I accept what Mr H says about 
how the discovery that £90,000 was missing affected him  particularly in view of the amount 
of money that was missing. But I also have to take into account that Barclays was able to 
reassure him that it was a mistake the following day and that it would be able to put things 
right. The difficulty was that based on what Barclays said it was unclear if the money would 
reach his account in time to be able to avoid paying several thousand pounds extra in 
respect of the property transaction. 
Thankfully Mr H was able to borrow the money from his mother. I accept that this caused Mr 
H additional stress and inconvenience  and that was added to by his mothers personal 
circumstances. Id note I can only tell Barclays to compensate Mr H for how this matter 
affected him  his mother isnt eligible to bring a complaint to us in her own right and I dont 
have the power to make an award to reflect the impact on her. But I can take into account 
the additional worry caused to Mr H by the impact of what happened on his mother.
In saying that, Barclays credited Mr Hs accounts with the missing amount on 22 July. So the 
total period from Mr H discovering the mistake to it being put right was at most four days. I 
have thought very carefully about what Mr H has told us about how this matter affected him. 
But after taking all of the circumstances into account I think Barclays total offer of £275 
(which I understand it has already paid) is fair and reasonable. I agree with Mr H that 
Barclays initial offer of £25 was insufficient and I can see why he found it insulting. But I cant 
look at how Barclays handled the complaint. And for the reasons Ive already explained I 
consider a total payment of £275 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount Barclays Bank UK Plc has paid Mr H of £275 in total is a 
fair and reasonable way to resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman