DRN-3736661
The complaint
Mr O complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (trading as Hastings 
Direct) handed his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os car was damaged in an accident and Hastings decided it was uneconomical to repair. 
They offered him £4,380 for his cars pre-accident value (market value) and paid him that. Mr 
O didnt think that was enough. He was also unhappy with Hastingss service and that they 
didnt give him a courtesy car for long enough. 
Hastings partly upheld his complaint and offered him £40 in compensation for their service 
issues. But they felt theyd been reasonable about the car hire period. They also wouldnt 
change their market value settlement. They said theyd followed this Services guidelines in 
reaching it. 
The investigator thought Mr Os complaint should be partly upheld. She thought that 
Hastingss compensation for service issues was fair, and that their market value offer for his 
car was reasonable. But she thought that they should have paid it to him earlier and so they 
should pay Mr O interest on it. Mr O didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
Mr O was also unhappy that Hastings cancelled his policy, but I dont deal with that here. As 
the investigator has explained, before this Service can deal with it Mr O must first give 
Hastings the chance to deal with that matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not however looked at the information Mr O sent which he says is from one of 
Hastings staff members personal social media account. Mr O says this shows Hastingss 
staffs poor service attitude towards customers. The item Mr O has sent is not in a format 
this Service can access. But in any event, I do not consider it relevant to the issues that Mr 
O has complained about. And as the investigator explained, we dont supervise, regulate, or 
discipline businesses or their staff. Instead we look at the effect the business behaviour may 
have had on a consumer in the individual case, and whether they acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Hastingss Service 
Hastings accepted that Mr O had experienced difficulty in trying to contact them and that 
their service should have been better. They apologised for their long call waiting times and 
webchat not being available. They said they would take his feedback on board and offered 
him £40.00 compensation for the inconvenience and distress. I do see that it must have 
been frustrating for Mr O to be kept on hold for so long. But there always will be some 
inconvenience in making an insurance claim. I think that Hastingss compensation offer does 
fairly compensate him for these service issues and so I dont require them to pay any more 
for that. 
 
Hire Car
Mr O said that Hastings took his hire car back on too short notice and this caused him 
inconvenience. He said he had to rush to collect a new car which meant driving further that 
he would have liked, and this caused him pain and discomfort. I can see that this must have 
been inconvenient and stressful for Mr O, whos told us that he is on disability benefits due to 
his health conditions.  
But Mr Os policy didnt require Hastings to give him a courtesy car once they declared his 
car to be uneconomical to repair and offered him its market value. Thats in line with normal 
insurance practice. Despite that, Hastings did give Mr O about six more days car hire than 
they had to, and so I dont think they acted unfairly. 
Cars value 
The investigator explained to Mr O our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. That other evidence might include advertisements detailing the sale 
prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised 
price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices. 
Ive looked at Mr Os policy and it says that if his car is damaged Hastings will pay its market 
value immediately before the loss. Market value is explained on page 14 of the policy as 
meaning:
 
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
I see that in assessing Mr Os cars market value, Hastings used the valuations from two 
trade guides, both of which gave its value as £4,380. So Hastings offered him that minus the 
excess. They also showed us their engineers inspection report, which showed what 
information about his car they took into account. So Hastings had valued Mr Os car in 
accordance with our guidance, taking into account its make, model, age, mileage, and 
condition on the date of the incident. 
The investigator also looked at a third guide which gave his cars valuation as £4,791, but 
decided that Hastingss valuation offer was still fair as it was within a reasonable range of all 
the relevant trade guide prices. Thats in accordance with our guidance and I agree with that. 
Mr O didnt think he could buy a similar car with what Hastings had offered him. He sent 
Hastings examples of adverts for cars similar to his, but which had higher values. He said 
that neither Hastings nor the investigator had shown him examples supporting Hastingss 
valuation, and that second-hand cars had gone up in value greatly due to supply and 
demand issues. But we dont expect an insurer to come up with examples of car adverts which justify the 
settlement they have reached in accordance with their trade guide analysis. And its not our 
role to do that either. 
 
Mr O also obtained a vehicle valuation document from Hastingss files via a data subject 
access request. He said the document supported his claim that his car was worth £8,000. 
Ive looked at that document. In a section called Expected PAV it does mention £8,000. 
PAV means pre-accident value. 
But I dont think Hastings meant that was what Mr Os car was worth. Its clear from a letter 
from Hastings to Mr O, that Mr O had already told them he expected a valuation of £8,000 
for his car. So I think it likely thats why Hastings included that amount there. It was what Mr 
O expected as his cars pre accident value. It wasnt what Hastings thought that value was. 
So I dont think it supports Mr Os view about what his car is worth.
And as I explained above, the guides Hastings used are independent industry trade guides 
and we consider it reasonable for insurers to use them. We still think that advertised prices 
allow for subjective profit and room for negotiation, and dont determine what a car actually 
sold for. We think that the guides have factored in market-related increases in second-hand 
car sales in the last few years. Taking all of the above into account, I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to override the trade guide valuation assessment that Hastings did. Im 
satisfied that they used a fair and established process to assess Mr Os cars market value 
and the amount they offered him was fair. 
I do agree with the investigator that Hastings could have paid him it earlier than they did. It 
meant that Mr O lost the use of that money over a period. So I think that Hastings should pay 
Mr O 8% simple interest on his settlement payment from 17 December 2021 (the date from 
which they should have reasonably made the claim payment to him) until the date in 
February 2022 that they did issue payment to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited (trading as Hastings Direct) to 
pay Mr O 8% simple interest on his cars settlement payment from 17 December 2021 until 
the date in February 2022 that they did issue payment to him. 
If Hastings consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr O how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
