DRN-2930335
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the service provided by Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) when she tried 
to access one of the pensions she held with it. 
What happened
Ms P prefers to be addressed in a particular way, but in this decision to ensure she cant be 
identified Ill refer to her as Ms P.
Ms P wanted to take 25% tax-free cash from one of the pensions she held with SWL. She 
planned to use the tax-free cash to fund home improvements. But she said shed been given 
incorrect advice about how to do what she wanted. 
Ms P had an initial call with an SWL adviser on 7 November 2019. During that call, the 
adviser discussed her retirement options. He gave her an approximate value of the pension 
account she wanted to access. As Ms P had told him she planned to take 25% of the fund as 
tax-free cash, and then decide what to do with the rest of the fund at a later date, the adviser 
told her a second call would be needed. He told Ms P that the paperwork she needed would 
be sent out ahead of the second call. He scheduled that call for 26 November 2019. But 
SWL made a mistake and booked the call on its system for 18 November 2019 instead. 
SWL said it sent the retirement pack on 7 November 2019. This pack mistakenly stated that 
the date for the next call was 18 November 2019. But Ms P said she didnt receive this 
information. SWL said that the retirement pack itd sent failed to include a paper copy of the 
investment guide Ms P wouldve needed ahead of the second call.
So when SWL called Ms P on 18 November 2019, she wasnt expecting the call. Nor was 
she prepared for it, as SWL hadnt sent her the paperwork she needed. So Ms P complained 
to SWL.  She said she hadnt received the claim paperwork she required ahead of the call 
SWL had scheduled on 18 November 2019. She was unhappy that she needed to have 
another appointment in order to claim her pension benefits. And she was unhappy with the 
service she received over the retirement process. 
In its first final response letter (FRL), SWL upheld Ms Ps complaint. It apologised that it 
hadnt sent out the required investment guide. This was important as it included the list of 
available funds for the pension to be invested in when moved into drawdown. It apologised 
for setting up the appointment on the wrong date. And offered her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience itd caused. It said itd re-send the necessary investment guide. And that itd 
escalate her claim once shed completed the process to avoid further delay. SWL also told 
Ms P that as soon as shed claimed her pension benefits itd revisit her case to ensure shed 
suffered no financial disadvantage as a result of the service shed received.
But SWL also noted that the paperwork itd sent ahead of the second call did provide a link 
to the relevant investment guide. And that itd been required under financial legislation to 
provide Ms P with all of her options before shed decided to claim her pension benefits.
Ms P contacted SWL again with further concerns about their service. She said she hadnt 
received any communication from SWL about her pension. So she was concerned that its 
letters had been received by someone else who might now have access to her financial 
details. She said she was frustrated with the time it was taking to access her pension funds. 
And that shed had to use money from her savings to fund the home improvements shed 
expected to fund from her tax-free cash. Overall, Ms P was unhappy with the service shed 
received. She said it had caused her considerable stress.
 
In its second FRL, SWL said that it couldnt uphold the further concerns shed raised. 
Although it continued to uphold her original complaint. It said its records showed itd sent the 
claim paperwork to her home address. SWL couldnt comment on why Ms P hadnt received 
it. And noted that she did receive its initial FRL, posted to the same address. It also noted 
that Ms P had confirmed that shed received the retirement account investment guide on a 
previous call on 11 November 2019. SWL said itd re-issue the claim paperwork by special 
delivery. 
Dr P was unhappy with this response. So she brought her complaint to this service. She told 
us she no longer wanted any sort of consumer relationship with SWL. She wanted it to 
provide the information she needed at the correct time. 
Ms P confirmed to this service that shed yet to take her SWL pension, as shed used her 
savings to pay for her home improvements. And the pandemic had caused her concern 
about the value of her pension fund. She told us she retired in November 2020 and that she 
now employs an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to help her with her pensions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. He felt that SWL had been responsible for 
the short delay caused by not including the investment guide. But that itd quickly fixed the 
issue. He felt that the £150 compensation itd offered for this error, and for the error of calling 
on the wrong day, was fair. 
Ms P didnt agree. She said shed never been made aware that she was responsible for
ensuring shed received the information SWL had sent her by post. She felt that important 
information like this shouldve been sent by registered/recorded delivery. So she didnt agree 
that our investigator didnt hold SWL responsible for the missing documents.
She also said that her complaint wasnt motivated by compensation. She said it was 
motivated: by the arrogant and dismissive approach adopted by SWL and the
inconvenience and stress caused to myself. She said she no longer communicated with 
SWL.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Clearly there has been a misunderstanding between what Ms P expected from SWL and 
what SWL felt its obligations were in this instance, with regards to both the number of calls 
required in order to take tax-free cash from a pension policy, and the provision of the 
appropriate information ahead of those calls.
Process for accessing tax free cashIll first look at the difficulties Ms P faced when trying to access her pension savings in the 
way she wanted. I can see Ms P said that if she couldnt access tax free cash from one of 
her pension accounts shed have to consider a loan for the home improvements she needed 
to carry out. And that in the end she said shed had to use her savings to pay for them. So I 
can understand that accessing her pension funds quickly was important to her. But I dont 
think it would be fair to expect SWL to compensate her unless it has done something wrong, 
And I dont think it has.
The decision about when and how someone accesses their pension benefits is an important 
one, which has significant consequences for the future. I can see Ms P simply wanted to 
access the maximum tax-free cash from one of her pension accounts. She didnt want to 
fully consider her retirement options on the remaining pension funds until the following year. 
Ms P clearly expressed that she didnt want any additional taxable income at that point in 
time. But SWL couldnt process her request for tax-free cash without moving her account 
into a different type of account from the one she held. And she would need to make 
investment choices for the funds she didnt want to access yet. 
SWLs process therefore required a second call to be made before Ms P could access the 
tax-free cash she wanted. The second call would be set up for a date after the investment 
guide - which Ms P would need to consult in order to make her investment choices for the 
remaining funds - had been sent to her.
Ive listened to the call between SWL and Ms P on 7 November 2019. Ms P is clearly 
disappointed she cant access her tax-free cash more quickly. But SWL explain why a 
second call with them is needed. They explain the process that will need to be followed. The 
appointment for the second call is set up for a time and date convenient to Ms P. I 
acknowledge that Ms P wouldve preferred the call to have taken place sooner, but I cant 
blame SWL for her being away for two weeks.
I also note that in the 7 November 2019 call to SWL, Ms P had told SWL that it would be 
better for her if the guide was emailed to her. And she told them to send the papers any way 
you like. But SWLs process was to include a paper copy and this didnt happen.
Ill now consider where SWLs process went wrong. And if this had implications for Ms P.
Where the process went wrong 
Ms P was told that the second call was set up for 9  10am on 26 November 2019. But SWL 
mistakenly set up the call on their system for 18 November 2019 instead. 
SWL had also failed to send a paper copy of the investment guide to Ms P prior to their call 
on 18 November 2019. So Ms P said she wasnt prepared for the call that was made on the 
wrong date anyway. 
SWL re-sent the investment guide on 22 November 2019 by first class post. So it shouldve 
been received no later than 25 November 2019. But Ms P said she didnt receive the letter. 
So she complained again in December 2019. SWL sent the retirement pack again on 17 
December 2019.
Ill look at the missing correspondence now.
Missing letterIve seen insufficient evidence that the 7 November 2019 retirement pack, and the re-sent 
investment guide letter, went missing as a result of what SWL did or didnt do. Post 
sometimes goes missing, and its just as likely that something else caused the letter to not 
be delivered. I note that a subsequent letter was received by Ms P.
SWL uses this process for all its customers. If this was a systemic problem with the way it 
sends post, I would expect it to consider very carefully whether a change in its process was 
required.
While SWL hasnt provided a record of posting, I have seen copies of the letter it sent. Im 
satisfied therefore that both letters were posted. 
Ive also seen no errors in the address it used when posting the letter to Ms P.
I also note that the SWL adviser made it clear during the 7 November 2019 call that the 
investment guide was an important part of the process. He even specified which pages of 
the document Ms P should particularly refer to. So I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for Ms P to chase SWL for the missing information, given how important it was 
for her to access her tax-free cash quickly.
And in its second FRL to Ms P, SWL noted that shed confirmed on 11 November 2019 that 
shed received the retirement account investment guide. 
Given all these factors, I think it would be unfair to penalise SWL for doing what it normally 
does when sending letters to its customers. I think that by following its process, and using 
Ms Ps correct name and address, it showed reasonable care when posting the letters to 
her. So I dont think it treated Ms P unfairly, and I note that it quickly issued a replacement 
letter. 
I acknowledge that Ms P doesnt agree with this position. I understand that she feels that 
important information like this should be sent by registered/recorded delivery. But Im not 
persuaded that theres anything wrong with SWLs delivery method.
What impact did SWLs errors have on Ms P?
Ms P told us that she needed to access the tax-free cash to pay for renovations on her 
home. But because of the issues she faced with SWL shed had to use savings to pay for the 
work. 
So I need to consider if SWL is responsible for Ms P not being able to access her tax-free 
cash in time to pay for the renovations. If I consider that it was, Id then have to consider if 
there was a financial impact on Ms P from using her savings instead of her tax-free cash.
Even if Ms P hadnt in fact confirmed to SWL on 11 November 2019 that shed received the 
investment guide, SWL took reasonable steps to provide the replacement investment guide 
in time for the second call on 26 November 2019. So despite the mistakes SWL made, the 
second call could still have taken place as scheduled. So Im not persuaded that SWLs 
mistakes made any difference to the length of time if wouldve taken Ms P to access her tax-
free cash.
Distress and inconvenience
I appreciate that Ms P told us her complaint wasnt motivated by compensation. But I still 
need to consider if SWLs compensation for its errors was fair. SWL has paid Ms P £150 in 
recognition of calling Ms P on the wrong day and for failing to send a paper copy of its investment guide. Based on everything Ive seen, and the individual impact this is likely to 
have had on Mr G, I consider this to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
While I understand Ms Ps disappointment about the service she received from SWL, Im 
satisfied that SWL took reasonable steps to correct its mistakes. So I wont be asking it to do 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman