DRN-3934267
The complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 are partners in a business. They have complained that Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance 
claim. 
Mr C1 has had conduct of the complaint, so for ease I will refer to Mr C1 throughout. 
What happened 
Mr C1 held a business insurance policy with RSA for his restaurant. In February 2021, he 
contacted RSA to make a claim for losses incurred after he was impacted as a result of the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. 
RSA said the policy would provide cover for loss due to closure or restrictions of Mr C1s 
premises only if the notifiable human disease manifested itself at the premises. RSA said   
Mr C1s business had been impacted by the Governments imposed restrictions which is not 
covered, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid19, and turned down the 
claim. 
Mr C1 doesnt accept this and says there was a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises, 
as he was unwell and went home from work with Covdi-19 symptoms on 8 March 2020. This 
is the last time he was at the premises before the Government restrictions requiring the 
restaurant to close. Mr C1 says he became worse and his wife had to call an ambulance for 
him later in March 2020. 
RSA spoke to Mr C1 about the evidence and he provided a copy of the ambulance record. 
RSA said Mr C1 had initially said the ambulance attended on 18 March 2020 but the record 
showed it was on 30 March 2020 and there was no evidence of any medical advice or 
treatment sought before the restaurant was required to close. RSA also said that the 
symptoms Mr C1 described were not recognised symptoms of Covid-19 in any event and the 
ambulance report says his temperature, breathing and oxygen levels were all normal. RSA 
therefore said that the evidence doesnt establish a manifestation of a notifiable disease at 
the relevant time and maintained its refusal of the claim. 
RSA also considered whether there was cover under the denial of access clause of the 
policy but said this required there to have been damage to the insured property or property 
within the vicinity of the insured property and this was not the case here.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter, He did not consider it should be upheld, as 
he was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it had. Mr C1 didnt 
accept the Investigators assessment. 
Mr C1 has made a number of submissions, in response to the Investigator and in the initial 
complaint. Ive considered them all but have summarised his main points below:
Mr C1 was unwell at the premises on 8 March 2020, he was breathless, had a fever 
and was lethargic, which are all listed symptoms of Covid-19. 
His wife called for medical advice on 11 March 2020 and twice on 18 March 2020. 
There was no self-testing available at the time he was ill and hospitals would only 
admit those that needed ventilators. So it is impossible to prove definitively that he 
had Covid-19
The ambulance report supports that he had Covid-19 symptoms.
The Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys business 
interruption test case supports that Mr C1 has established that there was 
manifestation of Covid-19 at his premises and the claim should be covered.  
RSA is trying to avoid cover and the fact correspondence on the claim came from its 
fraud department was intimidating and suggestive. Our role includes reviewing 
insurers behaviour, so this is relevant.  
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr C1s business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Mr C1s policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business 
interruption caused by various events. I have considered the entire policy carefully to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr C1s claim. 
Notifiable disease 
The main part of cover I think might be relevant to this claim is an extension to the business 
interruption section of cover that covers loss as a result of:
Disease, Murder, Suicide, Vermin and Pests 
Loss as a result of 
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
The phrases notifiable human disease and Public Authority are not specifically defined in 
the policy.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease.  So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr C1s 
claim, the closure of the premises would need to be as a result of a manifestation of Covid-
19 at the premises. 
The Supreme Court provided guidance on what the term manifestation means. It said there 
must be a diagnosis of or display of symptoms of the notifiable disease for it to amount to a 
manifestation. So for there to be cover under this term in the policy, I think that someone 
would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms of 
Covid-19 while at the premises and before the Government requirement to close was 
imposed. As Mr C1 says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
Clearly it is impossible to be certain whether Mr C1 had Covid-19 or not, as no test was done 
at the time but I have to consider what is more likely than not. 
Mr C1s statement in support of his claim dated 10 September 2021, says he went home 
from work on 8 March 2020 as he felt lethargic, breathless and had no energy. He also later 
says he had all the classic symptoms of Covid-19: loss of sense of smell shortness of 
breath, fever and a cough. In his statement he says he didnt start to feel better until 29 
March 2020. 
In June 2021, Mr C1 told RSA that his wife called an ambulance for him on 18 March 2020 
and the crew diagnosed Covid-19. He later made a statement that this was a mistake; his 
wife called NHS 111 on 18 March 2020, as she was concerned about his breathing and 
called an ambulance on 30 March 2020 as he was still short of breath. Mr C1 has provided 
phone bills which show calls were made to his GP surgery on 11 March 2020 and twice on 
18 March 2020. However, there is no evidence of what was discussed in those calls.
Mr C1 has also provided a copy of the ambulance report dated 30 March 2020. This says he 
reported felling unwell for two weeks with Covdi-19 symptoms. They checked his airways, 
blood pressure heart rate and oxygen saturation rate. All were recorded as normal and Mr 
C1 was advised to take paracetamol and keep up fluid & food (not been an issue).
Mr C1 says his temperature was normal, as hed taken paracetamol.  Mr C1 says the report 
also states response required due to clinical concerns  treat as possible case of Covid-19 
using PPE as described within Covid-19 guidance for Ambulance Trusts as positive on EIDs 
(cough/fever). He says this proves that he had Covid-19 and that he had it while at the 
premises. 
However, this is based on Mr C1s reported symptoms of a cough and fever. The report says 
the paramedics did not observe a fever and did not confirm observation of any of the 
symptoms that would normally be associated with Covid-19. 
Mr C1 was clearly unwell at this time and I accept he was displaying some symptoms of 
illness. And I note that Mr C1 says he didnt have a fever when the paramedics attended 
because he had been taking paracetamol. However, it seems to me that his symptoms could 
have been the result of a chest infection or other non-coronavirus related illness. Lethargy, 
fever and a cough could be the result of any number of things. I note that theres no mention 
of loss of sense of smell or taste until Mr C1s statement in September 2021. And many 
people with such symptoms around the time in question would not have been suffering from 
Covid-19. 
Overall, I do not think the evidence is enough to establish that Mr C1 was more likely than 
not suffering from Covid-19 in March 2020. In addition, the ambulance service were told on 30 March 2020 that Mr C1 had been unwell 
for two weeks. This means his symptoms would have started on, or around, 16 March 2020, 
which is eight days after he said he was last at the premises. Mr C1 says he might have said 
hed had symptoms for only two weeks because of how ill he was or the paramedics noted it 
down wrong. 
I note that the reference to having been unwell for two weeks is in the initial call log to the 
ambulance service, as well as in the handwritten report completed by the paramedics while 
in attendance. Mr C1 says his wife called the ambulance, so the telephone log would be 
what she told them when she called. I also think it is likely she would have spoken to the 
paramedics when they attended, as she was the one that called out of concern for Mr C1s 
health. Given that different representatives of the ambulance service recorded separately 
that Mr C1 had been unwell for two weeks, I think it is more likely than not this is what they 
were told.   
There is no contemporaneous independent evidence of Mr C1s attendance at the premises. 
He says that as one of the owners, he is not named on any roster. I accept this might be the 
case and I note he has been consistent in saying he was last there on 8 March 2020. So if I 
accept that is the case, his reported symptoms (even if I accepted he had Covid-19, which 
for the reasons given above, I dont) started around a week later. 
Having considered everything, I do not therefore consider that the evidence is sufficiently 
convincing to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Mr C1s premises 
before it was required to close. So Im satisfied RSAs decision to decline the claim under 
this section of cover was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Denial of access
There is also an extension of cover for denial of access however, this requires Mr C1s loss 
to be as a result of damage, as defined in the policy, to property within the vicinity of the 
premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption to Mr C1s business was 
as a result of damage to property in the vicinity of its premises. So this doesnt provide 
cover. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Mr C1s claim either.
Other matters
Finally, Mr C1 has objected to RSAs fraud department dealing with the claim. I cant see 
that there was any meaning behind this. It might well be that due to the volume of claims as 
a result of the pandemic, RSA had to distribute claims to it staff that had capacity to deal with 
them.  I appreciate this might have been disconcerting for Mr H but it did not make any 
difference to the outcome of the claim or complaint and I do not think RSA did anything 
wrong.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C1 was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman