DRN-2201529
The complaint
Ms O complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
What happened
Ms O tells us that in December 2018 she acquired the vehicle from a business Ill call B. 
Ms O says that in March 2019 the vehicle experienced faults which were repaired by B. She 
explains that in May 2019 the vehicle suffered a further breakdown which was subsequently 
shown to have been caused by a faulty fuel pump. Ms O states that she has supplied a 
breakdown report from a company Ill refer to as R which recovered the vehicle. And that 
she was subsequently told the repair costs would be over £1,900 of which only £1,000 would 
be covered by warranty. She states that BMF declined her request to reject the vehicle or to 
assist with the cost of repairs.
BMF told us that the fuel pump failure was a wear and tear issue for which it wasnt 
responsible.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 August 2020. I said that I agreed with 
our investigators view that Ms O should be able to reject the vehicle as it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. But that I took a slightly different view in terms of the 
redress which should be ordered.
Since then both parties have replied, and I thank them for these responses. Ms O replied 
accepting my provisional decision. BMF stated that Ms O had been offered warranty repairs 
up to £1,000 limit but had declined. It said this showed she simply wanted the opportunity to 
get out of the car and took it. And it didnt agree that the fuel pump failure meant the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory when supplied. BMF said it should also not be liable for storage 
charges as it hadnt authorised Ms O to incur them.
Ive considered what the parties have told me. But Ive not been provided with any further 
information which would cause me to change my provisional view. This is largely repeated in 
my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Ms O was experienced problems with this vehicle. And I understand that its 
always disappointing when things go wrong. Unfortunately, with older, used vehicles its 
more likely that faults will occur than with newer models. The vehicle here being around 
seven years old.
Ms Os hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle. I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it 
into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
This states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality at the 
time of supply. Satisfactory quality is defined as what a reasonable person would consider to 
be satisfactory. And this would probably include the age and previous use of the vehicle. The 
quality of goods also includes aspects of durability. Where a vehicle fails to conform to 
contract within the first six months after supply its presumed it didnt conform to contract at 
the time of supply. Unless its shown that it did conform to contract at this time.
Here Ms Os vehicle experienced faults on two occasions within the first six months following 
its supply on or around 22 December 2018. The first problems in March related to several 
issues including glow plugs; a diesel particulate filter clean (DPF); and a sensor was 
replaced. Together the repairs came to £780.25 which was covered by warranty. Whether all 
these items could be properly characterised as merely being wear and tear I rather doubt. It 
raises the question of if the vehicle was properly checked prior to supply. But as the cost 
wasnt charged to Ms O thats not something I need to deal with directly.
The vehicle then broke down again on 1 May 2019 and was diagnosed as requiring a 
replacement diesel fuel pump. Ive seen the breakdown report supplied by R. This records 
the odometer reading as 51,701 miles. The total cost of the required repair was quoted to be 
£1,958.82. As only £1,000 of this was covered by the warranty the effect was that Ms O 
wouldve been liable for the balance of payment. She complained to BMF and said she 
wanted to reject the vehicle. On 30 May BMF issued a final response letter saying it wouldnt 
assist as the fault was considered to be a wear and tear item.
Ms O declined to agree with this and complained to this service. She later advised that B 
had told her if she didnt have the vehicle removed it would start charging her £18 per day 
storage. Ms O reports that she arranged for storage at a cost of £10 per day. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive noted that BMF replied to our investigators two views and raised a number of issues. Ill 
comment upon these separately in order to explain my decision.
The vehicle passed an MOT test on 4 January 2019 with an odometer reading recorded as 
49,433 miles. Contrary to what was suggested a MOT test does not indicate that a vehicle is 
roadworthy or fit for purpose. It indicates simply that the vehicle complies with certain legal 
standards. It is not a test of whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality.Ive already commented that the first round of repairs may or may not have been wear and 
tear items. The vehicle had covered around 49,000 miles at the time of supply so might well 
have needed some maintenance. But the need to clean the DPF so soon after supply might 
indicate the vehicle hadnt been subject to a thorough pre-supply examination or it might be 
explained by driving style. The information is inconclusive and as the cost was covered, I 
shant dwell on the point.
The failure of the diesel fuel pump is a different matter. BMF told us that a fuel pump can fail 
at any time and is just something that can happen. And it went on to say that this should 
also be considered a wear and tear issue. It said that if the pump had been faulty at the point 
of supply the vehicle wouldnt have been able to cover the 2000 + miles prior to breakdown.
Any mechanical item can fail at any time  thats true  but the more appropriate question to 
ask is whether it was reasonable for the component to fail when it did. Ive previously 
referred to the issue of durability. I think thats highly relevant to these circumstances. The 
CRA contains a legal presumption that if goods dont conform to contract at any time during 
the first six months from supply then they are taken not to comply at the time of supply  
unless its shown otherwise.
I doubt if a reasonable person would think that a vehicle costing £7,000 should require 
repairs and maintenance totalling almost £3,000 within six months of supply. I also dont 
think its fair to describe a fuel pump as a wear and tear item. Its not a routinely serviceable 
item and - whilst nothing can be guaranteed - its also not unusual for this component to last 
the lifetime of the vehicle. BMF hasnt supplied any information to show that the fuel pump 
failure was the result of any error or omission on the part of Ms O. In my opinion the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied as it lacked durability.
I would emphasise that warranties have no bearing on whether or not goods are of 
satisfactory quality. If a warranty only covers the cost of repairs up to a certain limit this has 
no effect on a consumers statutory rights. That includes the right to have goods that dont 
conform to contract within six months of supply repaired free of charge. Or, in appropriate 
circumstances, to reject those goods. 
Although Ms O expressed a wish to reject the vehicle upon the second breakdown I have to 
consider if BMF would have been entitled to have the vehicle repaired. The CRA gives a 
supplier the chance to have goods repaired where such issues arise after the first 30 days of 
supply and beyond the time when the short term right to reject may be available.
Ive looked at the notes after Ms O complained to BMF on 9 May 2019. Whilst she 
expressed the wish to reject the vehicle - and wouldnt authorise repairs - that seems to be 
because shed been advised shed be liable for the excess costs. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that shed been advised that all the repair costs would be covered. The contact 
notes indicate shed been told at least three times before the final response letter (FRL) that 
BMF wouldnt assist. And the FRL confirmed this.
Whilst repairs might have been an option if carried out immediately, I dont consider that to 
be appropriate now. Where the CRA allows the supplier to repair goods, its subject to those 
repairs being carried out within a reasonable time and without causing significant 
inconvenience to the customer. No courtesy car was provided so Ms O was without her 
vehicle from 1 May 2019. Shes already experienced significant delay and inconvenience.
I find on a balance of probabilities that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply and that Ms O should now be able to end the agreement and reject the vehicle. Im 
upholding this complaint.Where I differ from our investigator is in respect of her findings relating to the insurance and 
storage costs. Ms O would have needed to insure the vehicle (as part of the terms and 
conditions of the agreement). And whilst she was unable to use the vehicle for some of the 
period between March and May thats only part of the picture. Insurance would also provide 
cover for theft, damage etc. so in my view it was beneficial as well as necessary for Ms O to 
keep the vehicle insured. I wont be asking BMF to refund these charges.
The storage costs are different. B plainly was able to store the vehicle but would seemingly 
only do so by making a daily charge. As Im intending to uphold the complaint, I cant see 
any plausible reason why this charge should fall upon Ms O. If BMF had upheld her 
complaint either by agreeing to cover all the repair costs or reject the vehicle these costs 
wouldnt have arisen. Upon proof of payment I intend to award Ms O a refund of reasonable 
storage charges.
In summary, the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Repairs werent carried 
out within a reasonable time and without causing significant inconvenience to Ms O. Shes 
therefore entitled to exercise the right to reject the vehicle and end the finance agreement.
Putting things right
Blue Motor Finance Ltd now needs to take the following action in full and final settlement of 
this complaint:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Ms O to pay for any period after 1 May
2019; 
2. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Ms O;
3. Refund one monthly payment for loss of use of vehicle between 13 March and 2 April 
2019;
4. Refund any payments made for any period accruing after 1 May 2019;
5. Upon proof of payment refund to Ms O storage costs of up to £10 per day from 9 
October 2019 up to date of settlement;
6. Pay £350 to Ms O for distress and inconvenience;
7. Arrange for any adverse entries on Ms Os credit file to be removed. And arrange for 
the agreement to be recorded as settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to items 3,4 and 5 above from
date of payment to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. 
I require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman