DRN-3293271
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr F had a car insurance policy with AA. He was involved in a car accident in which the
third-party driver was found to be at fault. AA deemed his car a total loss and said the claim
should be settled by paying the cars market value. And they valued his car at £31,250.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service because he didnt agree with the valuation. He
said:
He bought the car earlier in the year and due to the Covid 19 pandemic, the price of 
used cars had increased significantly in the months since.
The settlement offer AA paid is more than he paid for the car, but he cant get the 
same car at the price they offered.
He would like to be reimbursed for his garden centre tickets and his personalized 
number plate, which he had to pay £80 to retain. Hed also had the car detailed for 
£710 prior to the accident.
His suitcase was damaged in the accident
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They said the value AA offered
fell within the range of values they had seen and thought it was fair. Mr F didnt agree with
the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2022 where I said: 
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr F that Ive considered all the information and evidence
provided by him and by AA, but I have not specifically addressed all the points he raised.
Rather, Ive focused on those which were key in reaching my decision.
AA said they werent told of the damage caused to Mr Fs suitcase in the accident, however
if he were to raise a claim with them, they will consider it under the claim this case relates to.
And I think thats fair in the circumstances.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. Rather, we
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the car
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Fs policy, AA must pay him the market value of the car, less his
excess.
The policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage,
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
Mr F says he had the car detailed in the months prior to the accident, but I think this type of
service is unlikely to have any impact on the price his car wouldve sold for at the time of
loss. As such, I dont think AA need to reimburse this cost as the terms only require them to
cover the cost of replacing his car. Similarly, Mr F would like reimbursement of the costs
incurred in the retention of his private number plate, and the cost of tickets to the garden
centre which he wasnt able to attend, but I dont think the terms required them to cover
these costs either.
Working out the market value of a car is not an exact science, and its standard practice for
the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its
not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with a similar age and mileage for sale at the
time of loss. Mr F says hed tried to replace his car but wasnt able to at the price AA paid
him, and he has provided adverts for similar cars on sale. We usually find the valuation
guides are more reliable than individual adverts because adverts can fluctuate greatly in
price. That said, they have their benefits and are a good indication of whether the figures
produced by the guides are reasonable.
The valuation guides provide different figures to reflect the price a car might sell for in
different markets. When we consider what a fair market value of a car is, we assess the
market value as the retail price the consumer would have had to pay to replace his car with a
comparable vehicle at the time of loss. AA provided evidence of their valuation searches and
Im satisfied theyve based their valuation of Mr Fs car on the retail prices produced by the
guides and not its trade price.
I must agree with Mr F, Ive looked at valuations for his car in March when he bought it, and
at the time the accident occurred, and I found the guides show a significant increase in the
value of his car in that time. But I think this is reflected in AAs valuation as its given a figure
greater than the price Mr F purchased his car for.
To calculate a value for Mr Fs car, AA relied on two guides, CAP and Glass, their searches
produced figures of £31,750 and £30,750, respectively. They took an average of the values
produced by the two guides and offered this figure to Mr F. Ive thought about their
approach, and usually I would think its a fair way to look at things, but Im not convinced in
Mr Fs specific circumstances, its resulted in a fair and reasonable valuation for his car, and
Ill explain why.
AAs evidence shows that when using Glass, they have entered an incorrect date of loss.
And its not clear from their evidence what date was used on the CAP guide. As such, Ive
carried out my own search using the same two guides. Glass produced a value of £30,750
and CAP £32,750 for the time of the loss. I obtained a valuation from a third guide, Cazana,
which is recognised and is used by our service and in the industry. It produced a market
value of £32,978.
Ive also looked at the online adverts Mr F provided and those from other websites. As well
as this, Cazana provides details of similar cars that sold around the time of loss and how
much they were advertised for. The adverts priced similar cars sold around the time of the
accident higher than AAs valuation. So, Im not satisfied their figure of £31,250 is fair.
When assessing a fair market value, we would usually discount a guide if its figure is
significantly out of line with the other guides. In this case I find Glasss figure of £30,750 out
of line with the other two guides and lower than advertised prices at the time. So, I think it
should be excluded in the valuation of Mr Fs car.
Ultimately, AA need to pay Mr F the cost of replacing his car with a similar one, and Im not
persuaded he wouldve been able to for the amount they paid him. I find the advertised
prices were more in line with the figures produced by CAP and Cazana. As such, I think a
fair and reasonable approach would be to take an average of the two guides, so I think AAshould increase their valuation to £32,864.
Mr F also complains that he paid a higher premium when he took out a new car insurance
policy because the claim was noted as not satisfied. AA confirmed they are still trying to
recover their costs from the third party. Unfortunately, this means the claim remains open. I
cant hold them responsible for the pricing decisions of other insurers. But AA should provide
Mr F with written confirmation once the claim has been resolved, which he then can present
to his new insurers and ask them to recalculate his premium.
For the reasons stated above, I intend to tell AA to increase their valuation to £32,864 and
pay Mr F the difference between what they already paid him and this figure. They should
also pay Mr F 8% simple interest per year on the difference, from the date their initial
settlement was paid until they pay him the difference.
Mr F and AA both responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and neither provided further comments for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reason set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F £1,614. They should also 
pay him 8% simple interest per year on the difference, from the date their initial settlement 
was paid until they pay him the difference.
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest, they should tell Mr F how much 
theyve taken off. They should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman