DRN-4401820
Complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In May 2019, Moneybarn provided Miss S with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £5,250.00. Miss S paid a deposit of £100 and entered into a 60-month 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £5,150.00. The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £4,924.84 and the total amount to be repaid of £10,074.84 
(not including Miss S deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £170.76. 
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Miss S complaint should be upheld. Miss S disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss S could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss S. During this assessment, Miss S provided details of her monthly 
income, which Moneybarn took steps to cross reference against information going into her 
bank account. This information was obtained from a credit reference agency and Moneybarn 
says it also carried out credit searches on Miss S which showed that Miss S had no County 
Court Judgments but she had some defaults with the most recent being four months or so 
prior to this application. 
That said, when the amount Miss S already owed plus a reasonable amount for Miss S 
living expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss S says she was already 
struggling at the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss S and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, Moneybarn will have seen adverse information recorded on Miss S 
credit file as a result of the credit search carried out. So Im satisfied that Moneybarn needed 
to take further steps to ascertain Miss S actual living costs, rather than rely on average data, 
in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Id normally go on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Miss S. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Miss S regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
To be clear, Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of Miss S bank statements in order 
to assess whether the loan payments were affordable. Im simply going to consider what 
Moneybarn is likely to have done if it obtained the information I think it should have done, 
which is get an understanding of Miss S living costs. 
Ive considered the information Miss S has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Miss S committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from the cross-checked monthly income provided, 
she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under 
this agreement. 
I accept that the information Miss S has now provided  in the form of bank statements  do 
suggest that Miss S declaration of income may have been inaccurate. But Moneybarn took 
steps to cross reference this with information from credit reference agencies and this did not 
show up a discrepancy. 
I appreciate what Miss S has said about the final response and the credit reference agency 
information being inaccurate. But my investigation has been independent of the content of 
Moneybarns final response. And in my view given what the cross-checking showed, I think 
that Moneybarn was entitled to rely on Miss S declaration of income. I dont think that it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to substitute Miss S actual income for what was 
declared at the time bearing in mind what the cross-check showed.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Miss S did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that Moneybarn doing more here wont have prevented it from providing these 
funds, or entering into this agreement with Miss S. 
Overall Ive therefore not been persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly towards Miss S 
when it lent to her and Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss S complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the outstanding balance remaining and Miss S is experiencing 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman