DRN-3408540
The complaint
Mr B, through his professional representative, complains about the transfer of pension 
benefits from a defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme, to a personal pension. 
He says he was advised to transfer by an appointed representative of Sanlam Partnerships 
Limited (Sanlam)  the respondent business in this complaint  and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm J). Mr Bs representatives believe that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him.
What happened
Mr B approached Sanlam in November 2017 to review his pension arrangements. A meeting 
took place between Mr B and Sanlam in December 2017. Sanlam says it didnt have the 
requisite permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on transferring 
Mr Bs benefits from his DB scheme so referred him to Firm J so that it could provide advice. 
I understand Mr B subsequently transferred his pension benefits from the DB scheme in 
which they were held to a personal pension.
Sanlam says it became the servicing agent for Mr Bs pension in April 2018 after the transfer 
had taken place. It says it was only at that time that Mr B entered into any agreement with it. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter completed by Mr B authorising the pension provider to transfer 
servicing rights to Sanlam, which was dated 24 April 2018. And Ive seen a letter from the 
pension provider confirming that this change had been actioned in May 2018. Sanlam 
continued to provide ongoing servicing until 2021.
In September 2021 Mr B complained to both Sanlam and Firm J about the advice to transfer, 
as he felt it was unsuitable. 
Sanlam said it hadnt provided Mr B with any advice to transfer his pensions. It 
acknowledged it had contact with him in late 2017 and verbally introduced him to Firm J. But 
it said that Firm J had provided the advice to transfer, and it was not responsible for this. 
Mr Bs representative asked our service to consider Mr Bs complaint about Sanlam. In 
summary the representative said Sanlam verbally advised Mr B to transfer his pension and 
that a personal pension would be more lucrative. But said theyd need to involve Firm J. 
They said an adviser from Sanlam was present at further meetings involving Firm J and that 
Mr B believed the firms had jointly advised him to transfer. 
The representatives said Sanlam and Firm J acted as part of a joint venture, had acted 
similarly in respect of other clients and referenced legal cases that it felt supported this. They 
believe both parties failed to provide suitable advice, without which the transfer wouldnt 
have taken place, so felt Sanlam should also be liable for the losses  and referred to 
decisions made by our service in other complaints to support this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that Sanlam had advised 
Mr B to transfer his pensions  noting it didnt have the relevant permission to do so. He was 
satisfied Mr B was advised by Firm J, that it was the party responsible for the advice and that 
the transfer happened due to this advice.
Mr Bs representative didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered everything that theyve said and 
provided. If I dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or every argument that 
has been made this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. 
Rather it is because my decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Bs representatives have made reference to previous decisions by our service, the wider 
relationship between Firm J and Sanlam and legal cases to support its arguments. But this 
service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, the right outcome in 
one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances can vary. And 
whilst in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider and have regard for the 
relevant law, regulation, and best industry practice, the decision I come to on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a court would 
decide. So, in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts and merits 
relating to Mr Bs dealings with Sanlam. I wont be considering Sanlams alleged acts or 
omissions in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm J. And I wont be 
considering the acts or omissions of Firm J in its dealing with Mr B because this complaint is 
about Sanlam rather than Firm J.
My understanding of the representatives position is that Sanlam should be held liable 
because they say it verbally recommended that Mr B transfer his pension and remained 
involved in the advice process after the initial meeting. They say Mr B understood both firms 
were advising him to transfer, and he relied upon that advice from Sanlam. They also argue 
there was a joint venture between Sanlam and Firm J. And they believe Sanlam has not met 
the requirements of it by not having regard for Mr Bs best interests. 
Did Sanlam advise Mr B to transfer?
Mr Bs representatives say Sanlam advised him that transferring was appropriate. Sanlam 
says that its appointed representative did not have the required permission from the FCA to 
advise Mr B about a potential transfer of his DB scheme. So, it referred him to Firm J.
Given the transfer value of Mr Bs pension, he was required to take advice from an FCA 
registered adviser. And the trustees of the existing pension scheme required confirmation 
that this had been sought from an appropriate party. I havent seen anything to dispute that 
Sanlams appointed representative didnt hold the relevant permission to advise on pension 
transfers. So, it wasnt in a position to provide the advice Mr B needed and was required to 
obtain or the confirmation required to satisfy the pension trustees.
Both parties have agreed that Mr B first contacted Sanlam over the phone and that a 
subsequent meeting took place. So, I dont doubt there was some discussion about Mr Bs 
objectives and his current circumstances between the two. But it also isnt in dispute that 
Firm J then became involved. 
Sanlam says it didnt complete a formal fact find or make an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk  because it couldnt provide advice. And that this was done by Firm J. I havent seen 
evidence to the contrary. But even if Sanlam had begun the fact-finding process, recorded 
information under this and shared this with Firm J, I dont think that would mean it was 
responsible for advice subsequently given by Firm J.
I also havent seen any evidence that Sanlam provided a written recommendation to Mr B, 
as was required at the time where a business provided pension transfer advice. Or that it 
confirmed to the trustees or the receiving pension provider that it was acting as the adviser. 
It seems, on balance, this was all done by Firm J.
So, it appears that the advice to transfer was provided by Firm J. And Mr B has not disputed 
this  as his representatives have confirmed they have complained separately to Firm J 
about the advice it gave. 
Sanlam was later appointed servicing agent in respect of Mr Bs new pension once the 
transfer had taken place. But the available information indicates this happened after the 
advice had been given and was the first formal service agreed between the two. The 
authority Mr B provided to his pension provider to deal with Sanlam as his servicing agent 
was signed in April 2018  after the transfer. And I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Mr B agreed to Sanlams terms of business, or any ongoing service being provided, prior to 
that point. 
Despite all of this, Mr B says Sanlam also provided him advice to transfer, and did so 
verbally, as it remained involved in meetings after introducing him to Firm J. And should 
therefore be equally responsible. But having considered the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that Sanlam advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. 
As Ive said, its clear that Mr B held initial discussions with Sanlam and that this wouldve 
likely included discussions of his circumstances and objectives. But that doesnt, in my view, 
demonstrate that Sanlam gave Mr B advice to transfer his pension. And again, its also clear 
that Firm J then became involved, and appears on balance to have conducted the other 
activities required as part of the advice process.
Sanlam mayve hoped that Firm J would advise Mr B to transfer so it could potentially later 
become the ongoing adviser. And its possible that Mr B believed Sanlam was advocating for 
the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that Sanlam gave 
Mr B a personal recommendation. In my view, the evidence shows that Firm J advised Mr B 
to transfer his pensions, not Sanlam.
Im also conscious Mr B could not have transferred his DB scheme, based on his verbal 
interactions with Sanlam alone. As Ive said it was a requirement that Mr B take advice from 
an adviser with the required FCA permission to advise on pension transfers. And that 
confirmation of this be provided to the trustees. Its not in dispute that Sanlams appointed 
representative didnt have the necessary permission to advise on pension transfers. Firm J, 
on the other hand, did. So, Mr B couldnt have transferred his DB scheme benefits based on 
the meetings he had with Sanlam or any verbal advice he feels he was given  because he 
wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm J gave the advice for Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. And 
I dont think Sanlams earlier involvement should automatically make it liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm J. It is my view that Firm J remains 
fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr B to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr B would have still opted to transfer his benefits if 
Firm J had advised him not to transfer. Mr Bs representative have suggested that he thought both Sanlam and Firm J were recommending the transfer. But on balance I dont 
think Mr B wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm J. Sanlam made Mr B aware 
that it didnt have the required permissions to advise him when it introduced him to Firm J. 
He was also an inexperienced investor from what I can see. So, if Firm J, a suitable qualified 
business whose services Mr B was paying for, had provided Mr B with clear advice in writing 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr B wouldve 
acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with Sanlam.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Js advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think 
Firm J is responsible for Mr Bs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did Sanlam and Firm J embark on a joint venture?
Mr Bs representative says a joint venture existed between Sanlam and Firm J to facilitate 
Mr B transferring his benefits and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr B has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Sanlam liable for the advice given to Mr B to transfer his pension benefits. Although Mr Bs 
representative states that Mr B was verbally advised to transfer by Sanlam, Im satisfied 
Mr B transferred his benefits because Firm J advised him to do so. So, I think Mr Bs losses 
flow from Firm Js advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with Sanlam before 
that.
Sanlam did not have due regard for Mr Bs best interests
Mr Bs representative has suggested that Sanlam didnt act in his best interests. 
As I have said above, Sanlam did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise 
Mr B on the transfer of his pension benefits. So, Sanlam could not have advised Mr B 
against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators 
starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer DB scheme 
benefits away from the existing scheme. As Sanlam didnt have the necessary permissions, 
it referred Mr B to Firm J, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer 
advice. I dont think Sanlam could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence 
on Firm J, particularly as Firm J had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this 
advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr B fairly, act in his best 
interests and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Sanlams advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Bs decision to transfer his pension benefits, without the actions of Firm J. I am also not 
persuaded that Sanlam made an error or treated Mr B unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Sanlam to pay compensation to Mr B or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman