DRN-4063294
The complaint
Mr U complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) removed 
online access to his credit card account and made mistakes when making reasonable 
adjustments to allow him to access account information.
What happened
Mr U says that after he opened his credit card account Virgin Money removed online access 
for these accounts and instead customers had to use an app. Mr U said his visual 
impairment meant he couldnt view and check his statements before payment as he couldnt 
view them on the app. He also said that despite his requests for statements in large print - 
and assurances from Virgin Money that these would be sent they hadnt arrived. So, he 
brought the matter to us.
Virgin Money upheld part of the complaint and sent a Final Response Letter on 8 February 
2023 during our investigation. 
It said by the time Mr U opened his account it no longer offered online access for credit card 
accounts. Instead, account information was accessed via its app. It didnt uphold the part of 
Mr Us complaint about online access. Whilst Virgin Money agreed using the app may not be 
easy with visual impairment it suggested use of a feature that would allow Mr U to email his 
statements to his personal email and then view them on a computer and enlarge them on a 
desktop screen to suit his needs. 
It upheld his complaint about statements and letters being sent in standard sized format. 
Virgin said, although their records showed it set his records for information to be in large 
print on 11 June 2022, it upheld this complaint based on his testimony. Virgin said it had 
requested and sent historical statements from opening to December 2022 in large font. It 
also upheld his concerns about calls, namely the way Mr U was dealt with on 8 September 
2022, the amount of time hed spend on calls and that he didnt receive a call back as hed 
been promised. Virgin Money apologised and offered Mr U compensation of £150 partly as 
goodwill and for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought, although there was a work around for Mr 
U to viewing his statements on a computer, Virgin had continued to send them in regular 
sized text despite Mr Us request for them to be posted in large font. He thought Virgin 
Money should increase its offer to £300 for the impact this has had on Mr U and send out the 
requested statements in the required font size.
Virgin Money didnt respond and Mr U didnt agree with the decision. He asked for the matter 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He thought the investigator hadnt taken into account the 
practical financial implications or the emotional and psychological impact of the banks 
failings when reaching his decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. We are an informal and 
independent dispute resolution service, not a consumer protection service.
Mr Us asked to speak with me before I reached my final decision. Ive considered this but I 
didnt think this was necessary. I fully understand the things hes unhappy with and theres 
enough information for me to fairly to reach a final decision.
It seems to me there are two main aspects to Mr Us complaint. Firstly, the issue of how he 
views statements online. Secondly the issue of letters and paper statements being sent in a 
larger font. 
Viewing statements online. 
Theres some dispute over whether when Mr U opened this account, hed have online 
access. He thinks this was offered; Virgin Money say it wasnt. Whether it was offered or not, 
I think, at the heart of the matter is how since March 2021 hes been able to get such 
information. The app is now and has been substantially the only way Mr U and any customer 
can access online information about their credit card account with Virgin Money. I appreciate 
this is of no value to Mr U to check the transactions each month before payment. But I think 
the work around suggested by Virgin Money is a reasonable one.  And one by which Mr U 
could have online access via a larger screen. So, I dont propose to ask them to take any 
further action on this point
Issuing letters and statements in large font
Id normally be satisfied with internal records - like those Virgin sent to us on 9 February 
2023 - showing a large print marker on a customers record and notes recording that back 
copies of statements, using this marker, have been ordered and sent on 7 and 8 December 
2022. But Ive also seen several photos from Mr U of both the covering letter dated 15 
December 2022 and a selection of the statements themselves which clearly show them in 
standard sized font. So, it seems to me something has gone wrong. 
Its also clear, from more photos sent to us by Mr U, that paper statements and covering 
letters generated after this December call and the FRL - on 28 February 2023 - were sent in 
standard font. Whatever the reason for this it must be very frustrating for Mr U after raising 
this several times and being reassured it would change to, yet again, receive this.
So, like the investigator I think Mr U should be compensated for these failings and the £150 
offered doesnt go far enough. The recommended compensation of £300 seems to me a 
reasonable response for the impact of these mistakes and the sort of award Id have 
suggested had it not been offered. Virgin Money must also send Mr U the previously 
requested statements in the required font size. From Mr Us recent email on 1 May 2023, it 
seems this still hasnt been done by Virgin. And thats despite the investigators view being 
sent on 24 March 2023. So, Im going to stipulate this should be done within 14 days of the 
date of this decision.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must send Mr U copies of his monthly 
statements in large font from March 2021 to date, within 14 days of the date of this decision. 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should also pay Mr U £300 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money must send Mr U copies of his monthly statements in large font from March 2021 to 
date, within 14 days of the date of this decision. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should also pay Mr U £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman