DRN-3414467
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied a default maker on 
his credit file which he would like removed. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr R opened a Student/Graduate current account with NatWest. The 
terms of this account stated that Mr R needed to use it as his main account by depositing his 
salary or another regular income into it. 
NatWest say they sent Mr R letters on 23 February, 9 March, 24 March, and 8 April 2021, 
asking him to contact their collections department, as a deposit hadnt been made since May 
2020 when the account was overdrawn by £1,997.72. Theyve said they also tried to call him 
on 19 March, 3 April, and 18 April 2021. 
As they didnt receive any response, NatWest have explained that a default notice was 
issued on 26 April 2021, with a further letter being sent and another call being made on 14 
May 2021. They said a formal demand notice was sent on 25 May 2021 and Mr Rs overdraft 
facility was removed from the account. 
As no further contact was received from Mr R, his account was passed to NatWests 
recoveries department on 16 June 2021 when all banking facilities were stopped. Mr Rs 
account was then passed to a third-party collections company on 28 June 2021. 
After three months of Mr Rs account being with recoveries, a default was applied. 
Mr R complained to NatWest and explained he hadnt lived at the address they held on file 
since September 2019 so wouldnt have received any letters. NatWest responded and said 
they couldnt see any record of Mr R contacting them to change his address. 
NatWest explained that Mr R hadnt been using the account in the way that was set out in 
the terms and conditions. They explained they had tried to contact him on a number of 
occasions by both letter and telephone, but never received a response. Because of this, they 
passed Mr Rs account to collections, and after three months a default was applied. They 
also said they couldnt see any record of Mr R ever contacting them to change his address. 
Mr R complained further and said he had never been in arrears and was always within his 
overdraft limit. He was unhappy as NatWest hadnt sent him anything regarding the inactivity 
on his account. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that NatWest had acted fairly. He explained that NatWest 
had given Mr R reasonable notice before moving his account to the next stage and that he 
could see Mr R didnt notify NatWest of his new address until July 2021, which was after the 
correspondence had been sent. 
He explained that in his opinion, the marker had been applied correctly to Mr Rs credit file 
as he hadnt used the account in the way that was set out in the terms and conditions. He 
explained that had Mr R contacted NatWests collections department, they could have 
helped him, preventing the debt recovery action. 
Overall, he was of the view that NatWest had sent Mr R the necessary correspondence and 
that Mr Rs credit file had been updated to correctly reflect the activity on his account. 
Mr R didnt agree. He explained that NatWest had been impossible to contact and that he 
had seen no evidence suggesting that any letters were ever sent. He also explained that he 
had never been in excess of the agreed £2,000 overdraft on the account, so he didnt know 
why a default had been applied. 
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr R has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. Having done so, Im not 
going to require NatWest to take any action. I realise Mr R will be disappointed, so Ill explain 
why.
NatWest have said that in October 2021 they partially upheld Mr Rs complaint about the 
time it took for them to respond to him. They offered him £30 compensation as he had to 
chase for a response twice. I think this is fair and so wont be asking NatWest to increase 
this. 
In response to Mr Rs main complaint, NatWest have explained that he wasnt operating his 
account as he was meant to, in line with the terms and conditions. For this reason they 
contacted him, asking him to get in touch so they could help with his overdraft repayments. 
Having looked through the terms and conditions of Mr Rs student account, I can see that he 
needed to have used it as his main account by depositing his salary or any other regular 
income into it. While Mr R may not have gone over his agreed overdraft limit, he wasnt 
using the account as he was meant to, and after noticing the last deposit in May 2020, 
NatWest tried to contact him to help with repayments. 
Mr R wants copies of the letters that were sent to him, but NatWest does not have copies of 
the originals. I understand Mr Rs concern about this, but it isnt unusual. Because they dont 
have copies of the original letters, NatWest have sent copies of the templates that would 
have been used. They have also provided a screen shot of their system notes, showing that 
the letters were generated and sent on the dates specified, and they have also sent a 
spreadsheet showing the dates and times that each letter was sent. NatWest has also 
shown the address they held on their system. This address appears to be Mr Rs old 
address.  
While I note and have reviewed Mr Rs extensive comments about the authenticity of the 
letters and his concern about whether they were sent, I am satisfied that NatWest have 
provided enough to show they were sent on the dates set out above. And in addition to the 
letters, NatWest have provided evidence which indicates they also tried to contact Mr R by 
phone. So overall Im satisfied they did enough to let Mr R know the situation and the 
consequences of not taking any action.Mr R has also mentioned that the courts were involved in his case and he would like some 
more information on this. Having looked into this point, NatWest have confirmed that this 
comment was a general one made in their letter sent in October 2021. It relates to the fact 
that the courts are acceptant of the letter templates they use when a situation like this arises. 
The courts havent been directly involved with Mr Rs case. 
Mr R has explained that he did try to get in touch with NatWest about his account in August 
and September 2021, however he never received a response. While I appreciate it must 
have been frustrating to not hear back from NatWest, the default had already been applied 
and the numerous attempts to contact Mr R had already been made in the months prior. So I 
cant say that this would have had any impact on Mr Rs main complaint. 
As a responsible lender, NatWest have an obligation to report accurate information to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Because of this, I wont be able to ask them to remove 
any of the markers on Mr Rs credit file. But he does have the option of adding a notice of 
correction if he wishes to. He will need to send this direct to the CRAs, and it will appear next 
to the marker entry for any future lenders to see. Mr R may find this link helpful if he wishes 
to do this: https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html.  
Overall, having reviewed everything, its my decision that NatWest have acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. Im satisfied they contacted him in line with their 
processes and that they have passed his account to collections correctly. 
Because of this, I will not be asking NatWest to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman