DRN-1236892
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with TSB Bank Plc (TSB). Theyre 
unhappy that TSB:
wrongly sent out a letter saying theyd broken a payment arrangement, despite 
having agreed after a previous occurrence that it wouldnt happen again;
told Mr M it would investigate the complaint in July 2019, but didnt start doing so until 
September 2019, by which time the eight-week period allowed in the rules was all but 
up;
failed to deal with a data subject access request (DSAR) Mr M made of it; and
says its policy is not to speak to customers on the phone if it knows theyre driving.
 
Although Mr and Mrs M have brought the complaint jointly, all of our dealings have been with 
Mr M.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than they have been 
presented, using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.  Another reason I have left out a 
lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published. 
Mr and Mrs M had some historic arrears on the mortgage, which they repaid under an 
arrangement. They brought a complaint to us about how TSB had administered the 
arrangement; it sent them letter saying theyd broken the payment arrangement when they 
hadnt. That complaint was resolved informally in the spring of 2019 when TSB agreed to the 
investigators recommendation that it increase the amount of compensation for the trouble 
and upset it had caused.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs M again wrongly received a letter saying their payment 
arrangement had been broken. Mr M spoke to TSB on the phone, and was told it would 
re-open the previous complaint. Unfortunately, that didnt happen and it was only after a 
succession of further phone calls (some of those calls were aborted when TSB realised 
Mr M was driving) that TSB opened a new complaint to investigate. 
By now, the eight-week period that financial businesses are given to deal with complaints 
had almost passed. Mr M said he now intended to refer the complaint straight to us, and that he didnt want TSB to reply directly. Nonetheless, TSB did reply, sending a final response 
letter on 18 September 2019 offering compensation of £100, plus £12 to cover call costs.
Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint to us. Our investigator thought that TSBs offer of 
redress was fair and didnt recommend it take any further steps to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman; in doing so, they 
provided transcripts of additional phone calls obtained as part of TSBs belated response to 
a DSAR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Im very much aware that Mr and Mrs M have had to wait a long time for us to provide them 
with a determination of their complaint. Im sorry that this has happened, and I offer my 
apologies to Mr and Mrs M on behalf of the service.
Mr and Mrs M have raised additional concerns about how the investigator dealt with their 
complaint, and I understand that there has since been an exchange of correspondence with 
the relevant manager. Here, though, my focus is on the subject-matter of the underlying 
complaint against TSB.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should get it 
from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As I said in the background, If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Ill start with a general point. Having no regulatory function means its not up to me to tell 
TSB what its policy should be for phone conversations with customers who are driving. 
Thats a matter for TSBs commercial judgement, and its not my role to second guess that 
judgement, make a different one of my own and impose it on TSB. 
Looking at how TSB handled the complaint, I agree it fell short of what was required, but its 
about more than just whether or not the rules have been followed. I have to consider 
detriment; and here, the shortcomings in TSBs handling of the complaint didnt impede 
Mr and Mrs M from referring their complaint to us. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M would have preferred not to bring this to us, but it seems to me 
that could not be avoided. Even if TSB had set the new complaint up promptly in July 2019, 
and replied within eight weeks, Mr and Mrs M would in all likelihood still have referred the 
matter to us, because they were still unhappy with the outcome.Theres one other observation Ill make, regarding how the complaint was dealt with; TSB 
sending out a final response after Mr M had told it he didnt want it to because he now 
intended passing the complaint to us. TSB is required to send a final response: by saying it 
shouldnt have done, Mr M is effectively complaining that it followed the rules in pretty much 
the same breath in which hes complaining that it didnt.
As far as the DSAR is concerned, matters of data protection generally are for the Information 
Commissioners Office to deal with; the exception would be if I considered the DSAR 
contained evidence essential to my reaching a fair conclusion to the complaint before me, 
and the delay in dealing with the DSAR meant my determination of the complaint was 
prejudiced. 
Im satisfied thats not the case here, because firstly, we do have the DSAR material, and 
secondly, the underlying complaint isnt in dispute. Its common ground that TSB made the 
mistake of writing out to say a payment arrangement had been broken when that hadnt 
happened; its accepted as much. That being the case, all Im required to decide here is 
whether the proposed compensation is fair in all the circumstances (as they relate to this 
specific complaint). In my view, the DSAR material is helpful, but not essential.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business gets something wrong - 
especially when its a repeat of a previous mistake - not being the regulator means weve no 
power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent punitive. Nor can we future-proof 
against a mistake thats happened before happening again; no one has that power. 
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. TSB has apologised and 
offered Mr and Mrs M £112 compensation. Having considered everything Im satisfied thats 
a fair outcome. If no offer had been made, I wouldnt be awarding more.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from his submissions the determination with which Mr M has brought 
the complaint on his own and Mrs Ms behalf. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost 
everything the bank has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr and Mrs Ms favour to the extent 
they would like me to. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
dont make any other order or award. Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs M to decide whether, on 
further reflection, they wish to accept TSBs offer of £112 in full and final settlement. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman