DRN-1338945
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold for the following reasons. 
Mrs H ticked a box on her credit card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. So, I think 
Lloyds made it clear that Mrs H didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Lloyds didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didn't have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesn't look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the PPI wouldve paid out 
for longer than her employee benefits and savings wouldve lasted. So, it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. This 
means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because Lloyds got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didn't tell Mrs H, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said. But these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mrs H any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs H the difference between 
what Mrs H owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadn't been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs H 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she 
doesn't pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman