DRN-2642582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Mrs H was charged an early repayment charge (ERC) by 
Nationwide Building Society. They say they were told they could apply to port her mortgage 
online and add Mr H to the account and werent aware such applications cant be completed 
online, and this led to them incurring an ERC on Mrs Hs old mortgage product.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021. I wont replicate the full findings here as 
they ran to five pages, however at the end of my provisional findings I provided a summary 
which said:
In summary, Im satisfied:
Mrs Hs mortgage offer said that there would be an ERC unless the terms of that 
mortgage were ported to any new property.
The terms of the mortgage werent ported to the new property as Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage had a fixed interest rate of 1.99%, and the new mortgage had a 2.94% 
interest rate.
Nationwides website was clear that a porting application couldnt be done online 
(and it explained what porting is).
Mrs H knew she needed to keep her existing interest rate of 1.99% (call 8 June), 
and Nationwide told her that was called porting.
Nationwide couldnt access the information on the existing mortgage account 
(such as the interest rate) when it was talking to Mr H as he wasnt named on it.
Mr H was told on a few different calls that he could move to an advised channel, 
and in the call of 3 July the adviser said she was worried and suggested he get 
advice.
In the call of 3 July the adviser told Mr H a porting application had to be done 
over the phone with advice, but he said they were out of the fixed rate period and 
were taking a new rate.
Mr and Mrs H took out their new mortgage online without the benefit of advice, 
and so Nationwide cant be held liable for their decisions.
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel Nationwide should have done more to help them when 
they discovered they owed the ERC a few weeks after they moved house as they had to 
put the money on their credit card. Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation 
Mr and Mrs H found themselves in, that was money that was owed to Nationwide as part 
of the mortgage debt, and it needed to be paid so the mortgage account could be closed.
Nationwide didnt make any mistakes that caused the ERC to be charged and having 
considered everything, Mr and Mrs H did have a way of paying it (albeit putting the 
money on their credit card wasnt ideal) and so it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
Nationwide needed to do more.
Having considered everything, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I simply cant 
uphold their complaint.
Both sides said they had nothing further to add.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman