DRN-3169353
The complaint
Mr K complains about British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) under his home emergency 
policy. His complaint is about how they responded to electrical problems at his property.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr K noticed that a security light at his property had stopped working. He 
had a home emergency policy with British Gas that included cover for repairs to home 
electrics, so he called to arrange a visit to fix the problem. It wasnt an emergency and as Mr 
K was away, the earliest convenient appointment was the day of his return. So he returned 
earlier than planned, having asked for an appointment as late as possible in the day. 
However, the engineer attended in the early afternoon, when Mr K was still returning, so 
wasnt able to look at the problem. 
A few days later, the electricity supply to Mr Ks property failed, so he called British Gas in 
the afternoon, also explaining that he had a vulnerable family member. A contractor visited 
late evening. He diagnosed the problem but said that he couldnt fix the problem there and 
then. He advised that, for safety reasons, the power shouldnt be turned back on. He told Mr 
K hed log the job as an emergency and that while he couldnt guarantee it, an electrician 
should be able to attend early the following morning. This left Mr K without power overnight.
The electrician didnt attend the following morning, so Mr K phoned British Gas. He was told 
that the job hadnt been logged by the contractor and that they wouldnt be able to schedule 
an appointment that day. Unhappy at this response, having no power, Mr K contacted British 
Gas at a more senior level. British Gas then arranged for an electrician to visit the property in 
the early afternoon, who was able to restore power. A further visit took place a week later to 
fix the security light.
Mr K was very unhappy at what happened and the service he received, so complained to 
British Gas. In their final response, British Gas apologised for the poor service received, 
particularly given the situation with the vulnerable family member. British Gas offered £130 in 
compensation, which they increased to £150 when Mr K rejected the initial offer.
Mr K then complained to this service. The main points of his complaint were that 
British Gas hadnt kept appointments and that the first contractor hadnt been able to 
restore power and failed to log the follow up job for the next morning. Mr K was also 
unhappy that he was initially told that British Gas couldnt attend that day, and that it 
took further contact for a visit to restore power. Mr K wanted compensation for the 
loss of power and its impact and for the inconvenience (at least £500).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She appreciated Mr Ks position, 
particularly with a vulnerable family member, and being left without power, including 
overnight. She also understood Mr K felt the problem should have been fixed sooner 
than it was. But she thought British Gas had arranged an initial visit on the day of the 
power loss (even though the contractor wasnt able to fix the problem) and that they 
restored power the following day, albeit later than it might otherwise have been. She 
felt the £150 compensation offered by British Gas was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think that £150 was fair compensation in the circumstances for having 
no power for nearly a day, particularly the stress caused which had left him and his family 
feeling very anxious about what had happened (and should a similar incident occur again).
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that £150 compensation was 
fair. Having considered the circumstances carefully, including what Mr K told us about the 
impact of what happened on him and his family, I concluded that the figure should be higher. 
I particularly noted what he said about the vulnerability of the family member and the effect 
the incident had. I concluded that the level of compensation should be more than that offered 
by British Gas and that £250 would be appropriate.
Because I disagreed with the investigators conclusions about the level of 
compensation, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr K.
First, Id want to recognise that this was a very difficult and stressful experience for Mr K and 
his family, being without power for nearly a day (including overnight). Particularly given the 
circumstances of his family that hes told us about, and that it caused significant stress and 
anxiety, especially given the vulnerability of the family member that Mr K has described.
 
While Mr K has complained about how British Gas responded to the issue with his security 
light, the more significant part of his complaint relates to the incident concerning the loss of 
power at his property and how that was dealt with. The main element of Mr Ks complaint is 
that British Gas didnt provide the service that they should have done, particularly not 
meeting expectations about appointments, being unable to fix the problem with the power 
supply on the first visit, and then not logging the follow up job as they said they would do. 
Also, initially being told that a follow up appointment to restore power wasnt possible on the 
day after the loss of power  although it was restored following Mr K contacting British Gas 
at a more senior level.
Looking at what happened, its clear that British Gas have acknowledged that they havent 
provided the standard of service that Mr K should have received. From the sequence of 
events, I think British Gass initial response of sending out a contractor (out of hours) was a 
reasonable response, given the loss of power occurred in the later part of the afternoon. 
From the evidence provided, the contractor was able to identify the issue (mains supply 
switch) but thought that to fix the problem would require two people to attend (for safety 
reasons). While only one electrician attended the following day and was able to restore 
power, I think the contractor would have given his professional view based on what he had 
found. And I dont think its unreasonable that not every fault can be always be both 
diagnosed and repaired on an initial visit.
However, the job wasnt logged as it should have been, so the visit Mr K was expecting early 
the following morning (after having no power overnight) didnt happen. And it was only when 
he contacted British Gas that this became apparent. I also think, having been told that a visit 
couldnt be scheduled that day, it was understandable that  faced with the prospect of another day without power  Mr K escalated his concerns to a more senior level in British 
Gas. From the case notes, British Gas then responded quickly and were able to arrange a 
visit that restored power. Having escalated the issue, I think this was a reasonable response 
in the circumstances. So, while power was restored within 24 hours, Ive concluded that it 
could have been resolved sooner than it was, particularly as an emergency where there was 
a clear vulnerability issue.
Having considered the main part of Mr Ks complaint, Ive also looked at the issue of the 
security light. While it wasnt considered to be an emergency, I appreciate the impact of it not 
working in the circumstances of Mr K and his family, as he made British Gas aware. They 
did offer a slightly earlier appointment, but that wasnt convenient, so Mr K agreed to an 
appointment on the date of his return. I can see he asked for the latest appointment on the 
day, as he was travelling back home. British Gas indicated a time within a six-hour slot but it 
was unfortunate that the engineer called in the early part of the slot, when Mr K hadnt 
returned. It was also unfortunate that British Gas didnt have the right number to try and 
contact Mr K. However, the light was subsequently repaired within a couple of weeks. As a 
non-emergency issue, Ive concluded that, while it was unfortunate that the first appointment 
didnt take place, British Gas havent acted unfairly or unreasonably so I dont think they 
need to take any further action on this issue.
Given my conclusions, Ive thought carefully about the question of compensation. Our 
investigator thought that British Gass offer of £150 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr K believes that, given the circumstances and impact of what happened on 
him and his family, the figure should be higher. Ive considered what hes told us, particularly 
about the vulnerability of the family member and the effect that the incident has had. Having 
a loss of power, even though it was less than 24 hours, has a significant impact and is 
inherently very stressful. But I think more so given the circumstances and impact Mr K has 
told us about.  I do think it should be more than that offered by British Gas. I think £250 
would be an appropriate sum in the circumstances.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I 
intend to require British Gas Services Limited to:
Pay Mr K £250 for distress and inconvenience (if they havent paid the £150 already 
offered). 
Mr K responded to say that he accepted the provisional decision.
British Gas responded to say they had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
As Mr K accepted the provisional decision and British Gas had nothing more to add then I 
havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I require 
British Gas Services Limited to:
Pay Mr K £250 for distress and inconvenience (if they havent paid the £150 already 
offered). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman