DRN-1361237
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) would not accept his claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted CIS to make an insurance claim. He said that there had been an escape of 
water from a bathroom pipe. This had damaged the ceiling below, a sofa, due to the ceiling 
collapsing, and the carpet.
CISs surveyor said that he couldnt find any evidence of a water leak. He thought that the 
damage was because of a failure of the lath and plaster due to a natural breakdown of 
materials, not an escape of water. 
CIS asked Mr A about the circumstances of his claim. Mr A explained when he had bought 
the property and that he had lived there since he had got the key a couple of months later. 
He said that, due to a leak, dirty water had gone through the ceiling into the carpet of the 
room below. His father had called a plumber, who was able to stop the leak. Mr A thought a 
pipe in the bathroom was the source of the leak.
CIS then wrote to Mr A explaining that the surveyor had not identified damage consistent 
with what he had had reported. It also queried why the sofa had been disposed of prior to 
inspection and whether Mr A lived at the property. The inspection photos showed that it was 
unfurnished and the policy listed him as registered at a different address. CIS requested 
information from him related to purchasing the property, a council tax bill registered at that 
address, a plumbers report, proof of owning the sofa and any photos of the incident.
On several occasions, CIS asked Mr A to provide evidence that he lived at the property and 
proof of the leak. Mr A provided some of the documents requested.
CIS also phoned the plumber to discuss the incident. The plumber initially didnt remember 
dealing with Mr A, but later in the conversation remembered going to the address after being 
contacted by Mr As father or uncle.
CIS told Mr A it still didnt think that he had provided enough evidence to show that he lived 
at the property. Based on the documents he had provided, the lack of furniture at the 
property, and that in a previous phone call Mr A had given his family address as his own, 
CIS was satisfied that the property was not occupied at the time of the incident.
CIS said it had spoken to the plumber who didnt know anyone named Mr A and could not 
confirm that he attended the property. CISs surveyor had also found no evidence of a leak. 
CIS said it was unable to progress the claim as there was no evidence that the insured 
peril had occurred or that anyone was living at the property.
Mr A disagreed with CISs findings and disputed that a plumber hadnt attended. He 
complained to CIS, who said it had inaccurately recorded the details about the conversation 
with Mr As plumber, but otherwise didnt uphold the complaint. CIS didnt think there was a sign of a leak and also thought the house was unoccupied at the time of the claim. CIS didnt 
agree that there had been any discrimination and said that the claim had been dealt with in 
line with the terms of the policy.
Mr A complained to this service. He remained unhappy that his claim hadnt been accepted 
and thought he had been discriminated against.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the claim had been dealt with in 
line with the policy and she didnt think that the evidence Mr A had provided outweighed the 
findings of the surveyor.
As Mr A did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I need to consider whether it was reasonable for CIS to conclude that Mr As property 
was unoccupied. In the home insurance policy booklet it explains the term unoccupied:
means insufficiently furnished for full habitation, or not lived in by the Family, or any other 
person with the Familys permission, for more than 60 consecutive days.
The policy then, in multiple places, says that it doesnt cover loss or damage when the 
property is unoccupied.
There were a number of reasons that CIS decided that the property was unoccupied. These 
were that when the surveyor went to the property, he thought there was a lack of furniture 
and household appliances and took photos that showed this. When Mr A was asked security 
questions, he started to give his parents address as his own. CIS also thought that the bills 
and other proof of address that Mr A provided had elements that meant they didnt clearly 
show the property was occupied.
Mr A has said he did live at the property and the way it was furnished was enough to meet 
his needs.
The part of the unoccupied definition that CIS seems to be relying on is about the property 
being insufficiently furnished for full habitation. The policy doesnt define what full habitation 
means and I think it is therefore open to interpretation what would be sufficient to 
demonstrate that Mr A lived there.
I have looked at the photos and read the surveyors report. I can see from the photos that 
there is only a small amount of furniture in the property. The report says the living room had 
three fold up chairs and a table. It also apparently had a sofa in it when the damage 
happened. This was disposed of by Mr A and he didnt provide a receipt for it, so I havent 
seen evidence of it. Im also aware that Mr A had only recently got the keys and so hadnt 
necessarily had a lot of time to furnish the property. Photos of the bathroom show there is 
shower gel and shampoo. The surveyors report says there are no cooking utensils, but Mr A 
said that he ate at his parents house, which could mean these might not be items that Mr A 
thought were necessary to have at the property.
CIS asked Mr A for various pieces of information to show that he lived at the property. He 
provided a water bill dated a few days after he got the keys, a council tax bill, which gave an 
occupied date for the relevant period. Im aware that this bill was issued at the start of the next council tax year and also covered the backdated charges to cover the period from when 
Mr A got the keys. Mr A also provided a copy of his driving licence, which was issued several 
weeks after Mr A got the keys.
I also listened to the phone call between the case handler and Mr A during which CIS asked 
Mr A to confirm his address. Mr A does appear to start to give his parents address as his 
own.
I have thought about the items that Mr A provided to prove he lived at the address and CISs 
concerns about some of those items. Although I think it is possible to explain the date 
discrepancies for bills and why the meter readings seemed to be low and so on, I think the 
number of issues, when considered together, mean that it wasnt unreasonable for CIS to 
conclude that the property was unoccupied. This means CIS didnt have to cover any claims 
from Mr A. 
Notwithstanding this, I have considered whether it was reasonable for CIS to conclude that 
there hadnt been a water leak. Mr A said that there had been a leak in the bathroom and 
that a plumber had dealt with it. I listened to the phone call where the case handler spoke to 
the plumber. The plumber didnt initially remember going to Mr As house, but when he 
thought about it he did recall some details. Mr A also provided an undated receipt for the 
visit. This said that the plumber had repaired a bathroom joint leak and found a leak under 
the floorboards. It therefore seems there was a leak at the property, although the receipt 
didnt say when it happened, apart from referring to a Saturday and a Monday, or how big 
the leak was.
Mr A said that he dried out the property after the water leak, which was why the property was 
not wet when the surveyor attended. The surveyors report said that there was no evidence 
of a water leak and the only evidence of damage was a small wet patch by the toilet. The 
report said there were no wet materials found, the moisture readings didnt show any 
evidence of a leak and there was no evidence of a repair being carried out. The surveyor 
believed the damage was due to a failure of the lath and plaster because of a natural 
breakdown of materials.
I have thought about this carefully. It does seem that a plumber went to the house to deal 
with a leak. However, it is not clear when this was, the size of the leak, what damage, if any, 
it caused or what repairs were made. CIS has said that there was no evidence of a leak or a 
repair and its surveyor has identified another reason for the ceiling collapsing. Weighing this 
up, I dont think it was unreasonable for CIS to rely on the surveyors report and for it to 
conclude that there wasnt a water leak.
Mr A has also said that he is concerned that he has been discriminated against. I can see 
that the case handler made a mistake when she described what the plumber said when she 
spoke to him. CIS accepted that this was a misunderstanding by the case handler and gave 
her feedback, which I think was appropriate. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr A 
has been discriminated against.
In terms of handling the claim, in the policy booklet it says:
You must provide any information, evidence and assistance necessary for us to consider 
your claim. The type of information and evidence that we may ask for includes original 
purchase receipts, photographs, invoices, instruction booklets, utility bills, valuations, bank 
or credit card statements, guarantee cards, pre-purchase surveys or plans, deeds of your 
property and estimates for repair or replacement.CIS asked for information to assess whether the claim was valid. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr A was treated in a way that was inconsistent with how it said it would deal 
with a claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman