The complaint 
Miss H complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent 
irresponsibly to her. 
Background
Between June 2015 and July 2015, Miss H took three loans out with Sunny. The lending 
history is set out below:
LoanDate Take
nDate Re
paidTerm
(Months)Amount 
BorrowedHighest 
Combined 
Repaym
ent
1 21/06/2015 05/11/2015 6 £100.00 £33.75
2 19/07/2015 03/12/2015 6 £150.00 £84.40
3 31/07/2015 Outstanding 6 £600.00 £289.65
I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3 and that the debt has been 
sold to a third party. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loan 3 only. He thought 
the checks made in respect of loans 1 and 2 were proportionate. But by loan 3, Sunny 
should have been aware that Miss H was struggling to manage her finances. 
The parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator and so the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
DRN-1717195But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
As I said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think Sunny was entitled to 
rely on the information Miss H provided to it when it was deciding whether to agree the 
loans. For loans 1 and 2, I can see it asked for information about Miss Hs income and 
expenditure. It verified her income with regard to loan 1 and from what it was told, I can see 
how Sunny would have reasonably thought Miss H could sustainably repay loans 1 and 2. 
However, by the time Miss H applied for loan 3, I think Sunny should have done more. Miss 
H applied to borrow £600 and when the other Sunny loans were taken into account, her 
monthly repayment would have been almost £300 per month. Within the space of six weeks, 
she had borrowed £850. The repayments amounted to more than a quarter of her monthly 
income and I think Sunny should have asked more questions about whether this borrowing 
was affordable. I think a proportionate check constituted a full review of Miss Hs financial 
circumstances. 
Had that review been undertaken, I think Sunny would have seen that Miss H was indebted 
to another short-term lender and making significant repayments. She also appeared to be 
making so-called token payments to another short-term lender indicating that she had run 
into difficulties repaying another loan. On balance, if Sunny had conducted a proportionate, 
but full review of Miss Hs finances, I think it would have seen that she could not sustainably 
repay loan 3. 
So I agree with our adjudicator and Im upholding the complaint in respect of loan 3. Sunny 
will need to take action to put things right. 
 Putting things right 
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. If that is the 
case and Sunny sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it will need to buy it back if it can 
and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below: 
a. Sunny must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 3, and
treat any repayments made by Miss H as though they had been repayments of the
principal on this loan. If this results in Miss H having made overpayments then Sunny
must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the
complaint is settled.
b. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Miss H. It must not pursue outstanding balances
made up of principal it has already written-off.
c. Sunny must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in
relation to loan 3.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Sunny and Miss H do agree a repayment plan, I remind Sunny of its obligation to 
treat Miss H fairly.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Hs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited must take action to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman