DRN-3538032
The complaint
Mr M complains that a credit agreement that he used to pay for a television on buy now 
pay later terms was misrepresented to him by Currys Group Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
Mr M bought a television with a price of £1,249 from Currys in December 2019 and 
he entered into a credit agreement with a third party to pay for it. He electronically 
signed the credit agreement and says that he was told by Currys that there was 
nothing to pay for twelve months.
He says that he decided to re-pay it early in October 2020 but was charged 
£1,494.96. He complained to Currys but it said that hed signed and agreed to the 
credit agreement at the point of sale which confirmed that the special offer date 
ended after nine months. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
that it was unreasonable for a consumer to trust what they were told verbally at the 
point of sale and he thought that it was likely that Mr M may have been mis-led, 
which had led to him paying additional interest which he wouldnt otherwise have 
incurred. He recommended that Currys should reimburse Mr M for the additional 
£245.96 that hed had to pay, with interest.
Currys has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
responded in detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that Mr M 
signed the credit agreement which was sent to him and that the credit provider sent 
him copies of statements and notifications which would have showed when the 
special offer was ending  and that everything has been done to ensure that Mr M 
was aware of the terms of the agreement he signed up for.
My provisional findings were as follows:
When Mr M bought the television in December 2019 he agreed to pay for it using a 
credit agreement which offered him a buy now - pay later facility. He says that he 
was told that he wouldnt have to pay anything for twelve months and he 
electronically signed a credit agreement.
The credit agreement that he signed shows that the buy now  pay later period was 
nine months and ended in September 2020. Mr M repaid the credit in October 2020 
but he was charged interest of £245.96 in addition to the £1,249 price of the 
television. Its clear that Mr M feels strongly that he was told that the buy now  pay 
later period was twelve months but theres no other evidence to show that he was 
told that he wouldnt have to pay anything for twelve months.
The credit agreement clearly shows that the buy now  pay later offer was for nine 
months. Mr M electronically signed that agreement and I would normally consider 
that it would be reasonable to expect a consumer to have checked what they were 
signing but I recognise that it may not always be clear to a consumer what they are 
signing when an electronic signature is used.
It would be normal practice for the credit provider to send a welcome letter and a 
copy of the credit agreement to a consumer. Neither Currys nor the credit provider 
has been able to provide the welcome letter that was sent to Mr M but they have 
provided a copy of the standard letter which is used and which would specify the 
special offer end date.
Currys also says that Mr M would have been sent by e-mail copies of statements and 
notifications which would have showed when the special offer was ending  and it 
has confirmed that Mr Ms e-mail address is correctly shown on the agreement and 
was used for those e-mails.
Mr M had agreed to pay for the television under a credit agreement and he was able 
to make the payment in October 2020. If he hadnt received any information about 
the credit agreement I consider that it would be reasonable to expect him to have 
contacted Currys or the credit provider and if hed done so he would have then seen 
that the buy now  pay later period ended in September 2020.
I consider it to more likely than not that Mr M would have received information about 
the credit agreement and that he ought reasonably to have known that the special 
offer ended in September 2020. Im not persuaded that its likely that Mr M wouldnt 
have entered into the credit agreement if hed been told that the buy now - pay later 
period was only for nine months so Im not persuaded that he was induced into 
entering into the credit agreement by a misrepresentation made by Currys.
I sympathise with Mr M for the additional charge that hes incurred as a result of the 
payment not being made before the special offer ended, but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that Currys has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Currys to 
reimburse Mr M for the additional charge that he incurred, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Currys, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. Mr M says that he disagrees with my provisional 
findings. He says that hes honest, has worked hard all his life and is really careful with 
money. He says that he knows what he was told and he asked several times if it was a 
twelve month contract and if hed been told that it was for nine he would have paid in nine 
months. He says that the only reason that he paid by card was because he gets reward 
points and he could easily have paid in cash.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. For the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence 
to show that Currys has acted incorrectly in these circumstances and I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to require it to reimburse Mr M for the additional charge that he incurred, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman