DRN-3954286
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the way her motor insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure) 
dealt with a claim she made on her policy and the settlement it offered her after her car was 
declared a total loss. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs H entered into a personal contract purchase (PCP)/ hire purchase (HP) 
agreement (HP) for her new car for a period of 37 months. She paid an initial deposit of 
£7,000 and was thereafter making monthly payments of £296.75 to a finance company. At 
the end of the 37-month period she had the option to make a final (balloon) payment and 
keep the car. 
In September 2022 Mrs H made a claim on her insurance policy after her car was stolen. 
esure settled Mrs Hs claim for the total loss of her car but it said, under the terms of its 
policy, it was only responsible for paying off the outstanding finance (£16,439.46) rather than 
the full market value - which was higher. esure also paid Mrs H a pro-rated amount of the 
initial deposit (£3,722.51 as there were 21 months left on the agreement less the £250 
excess) which meant it paid a total of £20,161.97.
esure said its settlement put Mrs H back in the position she was in at the time she bought 
the car as she had no finance outstanding plus a proportion of her original deposit. 
Mrs H wasnt happy about this and complained but esure didnt uphold the complaint. It said 
it treated the PCP/HP as it would a lease agreement as it is effectively a rental agreement 
with an option to purchase. It added that its seen research which says that most consumers 
do not buy the car at the end of the contract. 
Mrs H then complained to us. Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and 
that esure should pay Mrs H the difference between the market value and the amount it had 
already paid to the finance provider and to Mrs H. Our Investigator thought a reasonable 
market value offer would have been £25,153 based on the motor trade guides businesses 
use to arrive at a valuation. So she thought esure should pay Mrs H a further £4,991.03 plus 
8% interest per year from the date of settlement to the date it pays her. 
esure didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said that under Mrs Hs 
agreement she did not get the option to buy the car until the 37 months were up and was 
therefore not its owner until then. It added that there is no way of knowing what Mrs H would 
have done at the end of the agreement or what the market would have looked like and that 
she may have ended up with a shortfall even after making the balloon payment.  It repeated 
that it did more than was required under the policy terms by paying Mrs H a pro rata refund 
of her deposit and that paying the market value would amount to betterment as Mrs H would 
be getting paid for something she didnt own. 
Before I issued my decision, I asked our Investigator to let esure know that I would be 
making the same award as our Investigator and that I would also be awarding £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs H. I also thought our Investigators award of 
£4,991.03 did not seem to include a deduction of the £250 excess which is payable under 
the policy but I thought it was still fair and reasonable for esure to pay Mrs H £4,991.03 
based on the valuations provided by the trade guides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it for the same reasons as our Investigator. 
The policy
The policy states that, if the car is stolen esure wont pay more than the market value of the 
car at the time of loss less any applicable excess. The policy defines the market value as 
the amount the consumer could reasonably have expected to sell their car for on the open 
market immediately before their loss. esure will use motor trade guides in order to assess 
this value and the valuation will be based on cars of the same model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of loss. 
The policy also contains a condition which says that if the car was bought through a lease or 
contract hire esure will pay the lease or contract hire company either the market value of the 
car, or the amount required to settle the agreement, whichever is less.
The settlement paid to Mrs H
esure said the above condition applies to lease, contract hire and other agreements. 
Nevertheless, as drafted, the above condition is limited to lease and contract hire 
agreements and doesnt seem to apply to agreements where the consumer has the option to 
buy the car, like Mrs H in this instance. Nevertheless, I do accept that this condition is found 
under a heading which says Hire purchase, lease and other agreements alongside other 
conditions. It is arguable that esure is not able to rely on this condition as it is unclear as to 
whether it applies to PCP/HP agreements and therefore ambiguous and should be 
interpreted in Mrs Hs favour. Which in this case would mean that esure wouldnt be able to 
limit its outlay to the outstanding finance if it is less than the market value. But even if esures 
intention was for this condition to apply to PCP/HP agreements I still think its fair and 
reasonable, in these circumstances, that esure isnt able to rely on it for the reasons below.  
Our general approach in situations similar to Mrs Hs where a consumer has a PCP/HP 
agreement and not a lease is to say that we do not think it is fair for the insurer to limit the 
claim to an amount which is less than the market value. Unlike a lease agreement, under the 
PCP/HP agreement the insured has the option of purchasing the car which they can sell or 
part exchange for another one. And in situations where there is an equity excess at the end 
of a PCP agreement this can be used as a deposit against a new vehicle. It follows that this 
would mean that if the car is written off there is a potential financial loss to the insured.
Mrs H took out a market value motor insurance policy and although esure can limit its
outlay here I think this could lead to an unfair outcome in this case. I say this as when Mrs H
took out the PCP/HP agreement she paid a large sum upfront (£7,000) and so there is
the potential for her to lose out when the car was written off early in circumstances like this.
Furthermore, Mrs H had to pay a fixed amount for the PCP/HP over the hire purchase 
period. So the size of the deposit has a direct impact on the amount Mrs H had to pay in 
monthly payments during the PCP/HP term. Had Mrs H paid a smaller upfront payment she 
wouldve had to pay more in monthly repayments over the term of the agreement. In effect, 
this means esure has had to pay less to the finance provider because Mrs H paid a larger upfront payment. As such, I think a strict application of the term would be unfair in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately, this is quite a significant exclusion of cover and is slightly unusual as a lot of
policies would pay the market value in a scenario like this when a consumer has a PCP/HP 
agreement as opposed to a lease. As the consumer is paying towards ownership or part 
ownership of the car. And to do otherwise would produce a particularly harsh outcome in 
Mrs Hs case given the large amount of money she had put down for the car.
esure said that under this agreement Mrs H didnt own the car and wouldnt have owned it 
unless she decided to purchase it at the end - which, it says, most people decide against. 
And it added that the car could have been worth less than the balloon payment and so there 
may not have been an excess to be used as equity to purchase another vehicle but only a 
shortfall to be made up. As esure says it is difficult to know what the market would have 
been like at the end of the agreement. But it is still the case that, under the agreement, 
Mrs H could have made the balloon payment and then sold or part exchanged the car. So 
she had the option of using the car as an asset towards the purchase of her next car. This 
isnt something she would have had the option to do under a lease agreement. And even if 
Mrs H was in negative equity I dont think this means that, under her agreement, she would 
have owed more money. It means she may have paid more than what her car was worth 
when the agreement ended. Nevertheless, the car would have still had some value which 
she could have put towards her new car by selling or part-exchanging her old one. Under a 
lease agreement she would have simply handed the car back to the finance provider.
So, taking everything into consideration, I dont think its fair and reasonable for esure to limit 
the settlement to just the outstanding balance of the finance and it should pay the cars 
market value.
Car valuation
Its not our services role to decide what the value of the car is but to decide whether the 
insurer made an offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. 
In this case, as I said above, esure didnt assess the claim based on the cars market value 
and therefore didnt provide a valuation. Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact 
science. We generally find the valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive as 
they are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
I have considered valuations from four guides. Those ranged between £24,367 and
£26,581. I wouldnt consider any of the valuations to be an outlier. In her view our 
Investigator said she considered a fair market value to have been £25,153 and neither party 
raised any objections. This is within the range provided by the trade guides but at the lower 
end. As I mentioned to esure, our Investigator didnt appear to deduct the excess when she 
calculated the difference between the market value and the amount paid to Mrs H and the 
finance company. So, given the £25,153 is at the lower end of the valuations I still think 
esure should pay what our Investigator has awarded even after deducting the excess. 
For the reasons above, I think a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for esure to pay 
Mrs H the difference between what it paid to the finance provider and to her (£20,161.97) 
and the market value of the car less the applicable excess of £250- which comes to £25,153. 
And it should pay 8% simple interest for the time Mrs H has been without this money and 
£100 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience all this has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited 
must:Pay Mrs H £4,991.03 it being the balance between the market value after the deduction 
of the applicable excess (£25,153) and the amount it paid to the finance company and to 
Mrs H (£20,161.97). 
Add 8% interest per year simple on the £4,991.03 from the date the claim was originally 
settled to the date it makes payment. If esure Insurance Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off tax from this interest, it should tell Mrs H 
how much its taken off. If asked, it must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman