DRN-2844061
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster. 
What happened
Mr H was looking for a new car and saw one of the right model and specifications advertised 
by a private seller on a well-known online marketplace. He was interested in the car and 
noted that the postcode provided was near his home address. Mr H called the number on 
the advert and the person who answered identified herself as the owner of the car. As the 
line wasnt clear the seller emailed Mr H. She explained that she was selling the car because 
she had completed a work contract in the UK and moved back to her home country. The 
seller explained she was selling the car through company A, which she described as a 
shipping and escrow company. 
Mr H asked where he could view the car and the seller explained the car and papers were 
with company A. As company A was over 400 miles away from Mr Hs home it wasnt 
possible for him to view the car, but the seller explained that Mr H would have a five-day 
inspection period during which company A would hold Mr Hs funds. The seller also sent Mr 
H pictures of the car. 
Mr H completed certain checks which Ill discuss later and decided to buy the car. He went in 
to a branch of Santander and made a payment of £4,900 on 11 December 2019. He agreed 
a delivery date with the seller but when the car didnt arrive, and the seller and company A 
didnt respond to Mr Hs contact, he realised hed been the victim of a scam and notified 
Santander on 19 December 2019. 
Santander declined to refund Mr H. It said he hadnt provided any information to 
demonstrate he had completed due diligence checks in relation to the seller prior to making 
payment or that he heeded the warnings he was given by Santander. Mr H wasnt happy 
with Santanders response, so he brought a complaint to this service. He said Santander 
should have done more to protect him at the time he made the payment. 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Santander say 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It says Mr H has not met his requisite 
level of care because he ignored an effective warning and made the payment without having 
a reasonable basis for believing that it was for a legitimate purpose.
Our investigation so far
I issued my provisional decision on 19 May 2021 and said,
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should have refunded the money Mr H 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Santander should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr H 
lost.
The money was taken from Mr Hs current account. It is not clear how he would have 
used the money if Santander had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Santander should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date it should have refunded Mr H under the provisions of 
the Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Santanders representations about the warning it gave and 
whether a customer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr 
H failed to take the requisite level of care required for Santander to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. Ill explain why.
The staff member who served Mr H in branch cant remember her interaction with him. She 
has provided a statement in which she discussed what she would have done  including 
providing an appropriate warning. Mr H says he wasnt provided with any form of warning 
and was only asked if he was happy to complete the transaction. Ive considered 
Santanders records, which show a box has been ticked to confirm a scam warning was 
given but doesnt give any further details. Given Santanders notes from the time I think its 
more likely than not a warning was given, so Ive gone on to consider the fraud script 
Santander says it used when Mr H made the transfer. This suggests that if Mr H said he was 
paying for goods or services hed have been asked the reason for the payment and whether 
he had seen the item he was buying. The relevant warning in the script reads as follows,
Criminals post fake items online and ask for upfront payments.
The fraud script Santander says was used also says that an adviser should check the 
customer has no suspicions about who they are paying.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have (as a minimum) 
been understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better 
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning.
I dont consider the warning was an effective warning because:
I dont think the warning was impactful. The warning refers to fake items  it doesnt 
warn against cloned items/vehicles or bring to life what these type of scams look like, 
so Im not persuaded the warning is impactful or specific enough to resonate with 
customers  particularly those who have already conducted checks to support the 
legitimacy of the item like Mr H. He had an HPI check which he believed showed the 
car existed.An effective warning should enable the customer to understand what actions they 
need to take to address the risk and the consequences of not doing so. Santander 
provided no actions a customer or Mr H could take to avoid being the victim of a 
scam or of how to spot a fake item posting. It also didnt explain the consequences 
of going ahead with the payment. For example, Mr H wasnt advised that it would be 
unlikely his funds could be recovered if he made a payment to a scammer. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded Mr H ignored an effective warning by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to one. 
Im also satisfied that Santander hasnt shown that Mr H lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
-Mr H found the car advertised on an online marketplace. As the items offered for sale 
on this marketplace are from predominately private sellers, it would not be realistic to 
expect payment for these items to be made by plastic card. And, from what I have 
seen, this particular marketplace didnt have PayPal integrated into its website when 
Mr H agreed to buy the car, nor are sellers offering items for sale on the platform 
obligated to accept PayPal as a form of payment. The help page of the marketplaces 
website says that cash is often the safest option  but it wasnt possible for Mr H to 
use this method. So I dont think its unreasonable that Mr H chose to make the 
payment via bank transfer  buying cars sight unseen is an increasingly common 
way of buying items of this sort.
-Mr H says he had looked at adverts for the same model of vehicle for between 
£5,000 and £7,000 so he considered the price to be reasonable, particularly as the 
seller wanted a quick sale as she had moved abroad. I consider the price to be low 
for a vehicle that was advertised as being in excellent condition but accept that a 
private seller looking to make a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the 
price or to sell an item for less than it might typically be worth.
-Mr H had previously bought a car using the same marketplace.
-Mr H chose to contact the seller in this case because the postcode on the advert was 
local to see whether he could also inspect the vehicle in person but was unable to 
given he reasonably believed the vehicle to be some distance away. 
-Santander said Mr H should have offered to pay a deposit and the balance on receipt 
of the car. If the seller refused this might indicate she wasnt genuine. Again, on the 
help page of the online marketplace Mr H used it says, Requesting or offering 
deposits for items on [marketplace name] is not recommended. The invoice Mr H 
received from company A also said, 
For international transport and sale orders, [company A] requires 100% deposit of 
the total value, from the intended buyer/receiver, prior to taking any action regarding 
the transportation/handling and selling of the vehicle in subject. 
The deposit will be held by the assigned agent responsible with delivery and selling 
of vehicle, in a neutral and monitored bank account until the transaction is concluded 
or cancelled.
So I dont consider that Mr H acted unreasonably in paying the whole amount 
upfront. 
-Mr H asked the seller how he could view the car but the distance between his home 
and the location of it was too great for this to be realistic. Mr H says he looked at company As website and established that it existed and was based in the area the 
seller had suggested. He also says he called the company and spoke to someone 
who confirmed the car was at the warehouse. When he called company A Mr H was 
also reassured about the five-day inspection period and his right not to accept the car 
and get a refund. Mr H also obtained an HPI check dated 10 December 2019 and 
was satisfied from the result that the vehicle existed and had an up to date MOT 
certificate. So I consider that overall Mr H did complete due diligence before making 
the transaction. I accept there were further checks Mr H couldve undertaken, but in 
the circumstances, I think he did enough checks to satisfy himself the seller and 
vehicle were genuine. 
-The agreement Mr H signed said that if he didnt accept the car he would be fully 
reimbursed. Mr H says that he was also reassured by the fact he was transferring 
funds to a major UK bank. 
Overall
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I consider that Santander should have reimbursed Mr 
H under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that
was lost. So I think its fair that Santander refund the £4,900 Mr H lost, together with interest 
as set out below.
Mr H agreed with my provisional decision. Santander said it didnt accept liability as it hadnt 
made any errors when Mr H made the payment. But in light of my overall conclusion in my 
provisional decision Santander agreed to my provisional recommendation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same decision as I set out in my provisional decision 
(reproduced above), and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc 
to pay Mr H £4,900 plus interest at 8% from the date Santander UK Plc declined his claim 
under the Code to the date of settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman