DRN-2926545
The complaint
This is a complaint that Connells Limited mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2011.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr M say that they did want PPI for Mr M, but didnt realise that Mrs M had been 
added to the policy. Because of the security of her job, and the good sick pay she would 
have received, they say she didnt need the PPI. As a result, Mrs and Mr M say they 
unnecessarily paid a higher premium than they needed. 
This did happen about ten years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs and Mr M didnt 
remember the detail of everything that took  place  but that does mean it may not be fair to 
rely only on what they now remember. And Ive seen two documents where I think it makes 
clear that Mrs H was being included in the application. There is a summary of the 
recommendations that were being made. This says that the adviser had recommend PPI for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for both Mrs M and Mr M, and they had both accepted 
that recommendation. And there is also a PPI application form in which Mrs M is listed under 
the column Applicant Two, and both Mrs M and Mr M have signed that application form. 
I have to decide what is the most likely thing to have happened. And, although I cant be 
certain, from the documentary evidence I do think its likely Connells made clear that PPI 
was being suggested for Mrs M too; and that Mrs and Mr M accepted this recommendation 
and applied for PPI for both of them.  
Connells recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr M, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard than if it hadnt made a recommendation  Connells had to 
make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ms particular circumstances. Mrs ad Mr M 
are in effect saying the PPI as recommended wasnt suitable for them, because Mrs M had a 
secure job and good benefits (6 months full pay and 6 months half pay) and also took out an 
Income Protection policy which took effect after 12 months. 
It would have been for Mrs and Mr M to decide whether they thought the benefits of the 
recommended PPI were worth the cost, in their particular circumstances. Only they could 
have made that assessment, taking into account such things as their appetite for risk and 
what they considered the best value for their money. Also, I cant know what Mrs and Mr M 
said in detail about their requirements  although there does seem to have been some 
discussion, as it appears from the recommendation document that Mrs and Mr M rejected, or 
only partly accepted, some of the recommendations about other insurance products. 
Even though Mrs and Mr M are now saying that a different type of PPI would have been a 
better fit for them, as this might have been cheaper, that doesnt mean by itself the actual 
recommendation made by Connells was inappropriate. As long as the recommendation was 
for something potentially useful to them, and wasnt inappropriate for them in some other 
way or against what they said they wanted, I would be unlikely to decide it was an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
And I do think the PPI as proposed was potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
appropriate:
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties, and it 
was often sensible to consider covering everyone who was paying the mortgage.
Mrs and Mr M were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr M received any 
employer sick pay  their employer sick pay wouldnt have affected their entitlement 
to PPI sickness benefits. Mrs M earned more than Mr M, so a shortfall in her 
earnings would have had a greater impact. After six months, she would have stopped 
receiving full sick pay, and the PPI would help fill that gap. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay (although it was unlikely 
Mrs M would be made redundant, it wouldnt have been impossible). And it would 
have put off the time when Mrs and Mr M would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This 
all would have put Mrs and Mr M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost 
income due to either of them suffering long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr M couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr M would have been affected by any of these.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mrs and Mr M would have understood 
how much it would cost. 
Its possible Connells didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr M would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman