DRN-4288718
The complaint
Miss L complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (AFS) unfairly recorded a default on her credit file. Also, it didnt agree to her 
request to refinance her agreement. She would like this matter resolved in a way that avoids 
repossession of her car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having dont so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The agreement Miss L signed makes clear the three options available at the end of 
her agreement  to keep, part exchange or return the car .To keep the car an 
optional final repayment and option to purchase fee is payable  one month after the 
last repayment. To return the car 10 days written notice is needed. The agreement 
makes it clear what the options are and that missed payments would be reported to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). I think Miss L had the information to know 
what she had to do at the end of her agreement.
I understand AFS wrote to Miss L in May and August 2021 asking what her plans 
were for the car and advising it would assume she planned to keep it if it didnt hear 
back from her. Miss L says she didnt get these letters. I dont know why that was, but 
Miss L would have been aware from her agreement that she had a decision to make 
about the car. In the absence of any other information, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AFS to assume Miss L wanted to keep the car and to proceed 
accordingly.
AFS, in line with its agreement, tried to take the final payment due on 3 November 
2021 but this payment failed. From the information I have seen it seems AFS 
contacted Miss L by phone in  November 2021, but it wasnt convenient for Miss L to 
talk. She sent an email  saying she would call  on 3 dec 2021. She says it was a 
question if she could call not a statement that she would. I am not sure why Miss L 
felt she had to ask if she could call or why, when AFS didnt call her ,she didnt call 
AFS direct as I think the onus was on her to call AFS to sort out her agreement. 
AFS sent a default notice on 9 December 2021 giving Miss L 20 days to  respond to 
avoid a default. Miss L rang on the last day to say she dint have funds and was 
looking for  any refinance. I appreciate she isnt happy AFS didnt agree to refinance 
her agreement but that is a business decision it was entitled to take. I understand, 
however ,that AFS said it would remove the late payment marker from her credit file 
to allow her to seek alternative finance which I think was helpful.
As AFS didnt receive the optional final payment by  March 2022 it terminated the 
agreement and recorded a default on Miss Ls credit file. I dont think termination was 
unreasonable given the time it allowed for the final payment to be made. Neither do I 
think registering a default was unreasonable as its important credit files accurately 
record account history.
I do appreciate the health and financial issues Miss L has shared with us. But she 
has also told us she didnt make AFS aware of these issues. I appreciate that may 
have been difficult to do so but I cant reasonably criticise AFS for not taking these 
issues into account when it wasnt made aware of them.
If Miss L is struggling to pay  the outstanding arrears I  suggests she contact AFS to 
see if she can agree a mutually acceptable way to pay these. We do expect 
businesses to respond positively and sympathetically to consumers who in financial 
or other difficulties but that doesnt mean we expect them to write debts off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman