DRN-4224029
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Braemar Financial Planning (Braemar). Sesame 
Limited (Sesame) is now responsible for this advice. Mr B complains about the advice he 
was given to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension and a Section 32 policy (S32 policy).  He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B met with Braemar in 1997 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr B has said 
that he wanted advice on what were the best options for him at the time. 
Whilst Sesame is now responsible for the sale of this plan it doesnt have very much 
information from the point of sale. There is no fact find, suitability letter or other documents 
that you would expect to see when a consumer has been given financial advice. Whilst this 
is unfortunate, particularly as Sesame is required to keep this documentation, I still think Ive 
been able to fairly decide this complaint. 
What I know about Mr Bs circumstances from the time of sale is as follows:
He was 49 years old and divorced. He didnt have any dependent children. 
He was unemployed at the time of sale but was actively seeking employment. 
He was living in rented accommodation.
He didnt have any other pensions or investments. 
He intended to retire at age 65. 
He had deferred benefits in a DB scheme. The transfer value of this was £9,864.56. 
Mr B says that his attitude to risk was low, and he wasnt looking to risk his pension 
arrangements. 
In September 1997, Braemar advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and the S32 policy. The S32 policy would have contained the guaranteed minimum 
pension part of the DB transfer. 
Mr B says the reasons for this recommendation were that he was told he would receive 
better returns in the long run if the transfer went ahead. I understand that Mr B took the 
benefits from this pension in 2021. 
Mr B complained in 2022 to Sesame about the suitability of the transfer. He said that: 
He had one meeting with Braemar and the focus of this meeting was the procedural 
steps that would be taken to transfer the DB scheme. 
What he was giving up, or the enormity of the transaction, wasnt discussed at all. 
Because of this he was unable to fully understand the advice. 
He shouldnt have been advised to give up the guaranteed pension, it was a 
significant part of his retirement provision.  
Sesame didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had requested some information from 
Mr B about the sale of the plan, and as it hadnt received this it didnt think it had enough to 
assess his complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Sesame pay compensation. She thought that, given what Mr B had said 
about his circumstances, it was likely that he wouldnt have wanted to take the risk of the DB 
scheme as the benefits he gave up were significant. She wasnt persuaded that Mr B would 
have been given the information he should have been. So, she didnt think that the transfer 
was in his best interests. 
Sesame didnt respond to the Investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by Braemar and Sesame in 1997. At this time they were regulated 
by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Sesame was a previous member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). When the PIA took 
responsibility for LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. And these 
adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr B with this in mind.Financial viability 
Braemar should have carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And it should have 
provided detailed information about the DB scheme he was giving up and how the new 
arrangements would compare with this. Its reasonable to assume it would have done some 
of this, but without sight of it I cant really place any weight on it.  
The DB scheme would have provided a guaranteed and increasing pension at Mr Bs age 
65. There wasnt any risk to him in respect of this. But the personal pension was invested in 
risk bearing assets and so, ultimately, the value and the income it would provide would 
depend on how it performed. So there was a risk with the transfer. Ive thought about 
whether it was reasonable to assume Mr B wanted to take this risk. 
Mr B was 49 and unemployed at the time. As far as I know he didnt have any other savings 
or investments and so there is nothing to show that he was comfortable with risk. And this 
pension would be his main provision outside of the state pension. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say that it was likely that he would want to risk it. 
As Ive outlined above Sesame needed to show that Mr B transferring his DB scheme was 
in the consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages. It cant demonstrate that it has done this, and I dont think its likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, from what I know about Mr Bs circumstances, that it was in his best 
interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr B required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say that he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also cant 
see evidence that Mr B had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. 
Neither of these seems to have been discussed at the time of sale. Mr B says the transfer 
was recommended to him as it may improve his pension benefits. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B could have best met his income needs in retirement through the 
DB scheme at his age 65. There is nothing that shows this wouldnt be the case here. 
Suitability of investments
Braemar recommended that Mr B invest in risk-based investments. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr B should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in personal arrangements wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for a higher income would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr B. But Braemar wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was putting this at risk 
when he didnt need to. There were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this.  
So, I think Braemar shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Braemar's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Braemars advice. I say this because I think Mr B 
was an inexperienced investor with a lower attitude to risk and he says this pension 
accounted for the majority of his private retirement provision. So, if Braemar had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Sesame should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Sesame must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Mr B retired at age 65. So, compensation should be based on him 
taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Sesame should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Sesames offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Sesame may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sesame Limited to pay 
Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sesame Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sesame Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman