DRN-3191959
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) didnt follow 
his instructions when it carried out two share purchases in his account. 
What happened
On 28 March 2019, outside of market trading hours, Mr D placed an online kill or fill order 
to purchase shares, which I will refer to as N. He wanted to invest £2,000 at a limit price of 
0.613p.
When the market opened on 29 March, HL purchased 342,767 N shares at 0.58p. Mr D said 
he was shocked because hed only wanted to buy the shares at the price he set  0.613p. 
He says that later that day, when he wasnt thinking straight because of the earlier trade, he 
placed an order to invest a further £2,000. 
HL said the orders had been traded in line with Mr Ds instructions, its terms and conditions, 
and its order execution policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt find 
that HL was at fault.
Mr D didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The limit price he set wasnt reached on 29 March and he didnt know that HL would 
trade below the price hed set. He wouldnt have placed the order, especially at a 
weekend, if hed known.
Something wasnt right because, shortly after the order was executed, the price crashed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the following 
reasons:
On 28 March, outside of market opening hours, Mr D placed an order to invest £2,000 in N 
shares. A live price wasnt available, because the market was closed, so Mr D was offered a 
fill or kill order. He set a limit price of 0.613p.
HLs terms and conditions say that a fill or kill order is an order to buy or sell at a specified 
price or better. If your order cannot be filled at the moment we attempt to place it in the 
market, it will be cancelled.
HL was obliged to trade Mr Ds order when the market opened if the price was 0.613p or 
better. As the price was better, the trade was completed at 0.58p per share. 
I find the agreed terms and conditions and the information on HLs website, which would 
have been available to Mr D before he placed the order, were reasonably clear.
Mr D only wanted to trade at the price hed set. But this wasnt what hed instructed.
Later the same day, Mr D placed an online order to buy more N shares. His account is an 
execution only account, so all trades are carried out without advice from HL. I find HL fairly 
followed Mr Ds instructions in placing this second trade.
Mr D is concerned that the price of N shares went down around 50% after his first trade was 
executed. But the price of the shares is set by the market, not by HL. HL was acting as agent 
when it bought the shares for Mr D  it didnt hold the shares in its own name as principal. 
I dont find HL was responsible for the share price movement, or that it benefitted from it.
I appreciate Mr D misunderstood what would happen when he placed the out of hours order. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find this was because of something HL did wrong 
and it follows that I dont require HL to pay Mr D any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman