DRN-2416746
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected his Section 75 claim when he 
complained about a fault with a garage door. 
What happened
  In December 2016 Mr H was supplied with a roller door and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. The price of the door was £3,038.10. Mr H paid a £1500 deposit 
using his credit card and finance d the balance with Shawbrook.
The door was installed in February 2017. Mr H experienced issues with the door making a 
noise when going up and down. He contacted the supplier in November 2018 to report the 
problem and the suppliers engineer carried out repairs to the door.
Mr H continued to experience issues with the door and contacted the supplier again in 
January 2019. The suppliers engineers visited and said that the door had an outward curve 
as a result of damage caused by a car.
Mr H disputed this and emailed the supplier to say the damage hadnt been caused by a car. 
The supplier says that Mr Hs wife called them shortly afterwards and said that the bulge on 
the door was caused by a car.
In February 2020 Mr H contacted the supplier again and advised it that the door had come 
off the wall together with some brickwork. The supplier told Mr H that his guarantee had 
been cancelled because of his wifes previous call.
In June 2020 Mr H obtained an independent inspection of the car. This confirmed that no 
external damage had been caused to the door.
Having been unable to resolve things with the supplier, Mr H complained to Shawbrook. 
Shawbrook didnt uphold the complaint so Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that the damage to the door was 
caused by a lack of care in the initial installation. She said that Shawbrook should arrange 
for the supplier to repair the door and the brickwork.
Shawbrook didnt agree. It said the supplier disputed the independence of the expert report 
as the door had been inspected by one of its competitors. The supplier also said that Mr H 
had already accepted a settlement from his credit card provider in relation to the same 
complaint and was seeking to double claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Shawbrook, I 
would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and 
that Shawbrooks response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Mr H hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods need to be of satisfactory quality and services need to be 
supplied with a reaosbsale degree of care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a breach of 
contract can be said to have occurred. 
Ive taken account of all the available evidence, including the information from the supplier 
and the inspection report obtained by Mr H.
Theres a dispute here as to whether the door had an inherent fault or whether it was 
damaged by a car. The supplier says that Mr Hs wife called and told them the damage had 
been caused to the door when a car reversed into it. Mr H denies that his wife called and 
says the curve in the door was present at the point of supply.
The supplier has been asked to provide a call recording of the call from Mr Hs wife, but it 
hasnt been able to provide this. It has provided some contact notes which Ive looked at. 
These notes were made at around the same time as the supplier says Mr Hs wife called 
them. But they arent consistent with an email sent by Mr H just 4 days earlier in which he 
makes it clear that the damage wasnt caused by a car. I think its unlikely that Mr Hs wife 
would call the supplier and state the exact opposite if what Mr H had said. It seems more 
likely that Mr Hs wife called to chase up the email he had sent 4 days earlier and that the 
contact notes dont accurately reflect the conversation.
Ive reviewed the inspection report. The supplier doesnt accept the report because the 
inspection was carried out by one of its competitors. Ive no reason to think that the 
inspection hasnt been carried out by a competent expert. The report identifies that the door 
has a high level of vibration with inadequate bolts at each end which has forced the fixing at 
one end to breakaway. The report is clear that no external damage has occurred.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the curve in the door wasnt caused by a car but 
was either present at the point of supply or caused by poor installation. The installation 
should have been carried out with reasonable care and skill, but the report suggests that the 
installation was below the standard expected. Im therefore satisfied that a breach of contract 
has occurred.
Putting things right
 Mr H has already recovered his deposit and the cost of the inspection from his credit card 
provider. Ive taken this redress into account when deciding what Shawbrook should do. I 
dont agree with the suppliers comments that Mr H is seeking to double claim, because Mr H 
is still liable under the finance agreement and still has a faulty garage door which needs to 
be rectified. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must arrange for 
the roller garage door to be repaired at no cost to Mr H. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman