DRN-2976703
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) declined 
her claim on her pet insurance policy and added a retrospective exclusion to the policy.
What happened
Mrs R purchased the policy online via a price comparison website in June 2019. The policy 
commenced on 1 July 2019 and renewed on 1 July 2020.
On 29 April 2021 Mrs R called Red Sands as her dog had been unwell. He had been 
vomiting, lethargic and not himself so the vet had recommended some tests. Mrs R wanted 
to ensure her dog was covered for the tests/treatment being undertaken so she called Red 
Sands to check.
As it was too late for pre-authorisation, as treatment was already underway, the adviser 
explained they couldnt see any specific exclusion for the digestive system. And they could 
look to review the claim but this would be dependent on the information received from the 
vets so no guarantee could be provided over the phone.
On 10 May 2021 a claim was submitted, Red Sands wrote to Mrs R on 15 May 2021 
declining the claim. They said the condition being claim for was first noted in May 2019 prior 
to the inception of the policy. And as the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions the claim 
had been declined. They also added a retrospective exclusion for the digestive system from 
1 July 2019.
Mrs R was unhappy and made a complaint. She said she had called to check cover and was 
told cover was in place up to the value of £1000 and it would be fine for her dogs treatment 
to continue. Mrs Rs representative also explained that Red Sands had the opportunity to 
obtain medical records at any point since inception and had information at renewal so Red 
Sands could have advised what was and wasnt covered. It was also felt that the dogs 
current condition was unrelated to the pre-existing issues.
Red Sands didnt feel their adviser had done anything wrong as they had provided a 
professional service and hadnt guaranteed cover. They also felt the claim had been 
declined fairly as Mrs Rs dog had suffered from vomiting that required him to see a vet prior 
to the inception of the policy and the policy excluded pre-existing conditions.
Mrs R brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt feel Red Sands had done 
anything wrong and felt the claim had been declined fairly. As Mrs R remained unhappy it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Red Sands say Mrs R didnt tell them about her dogs visits to the vet for vomiting and 
diarrhoea when she took out the policy or any subsequent renewals. So, in essence they 
think she hasnt taken reasonable care to give a fair representation of the risk her dog 
presents to them. 
Ive reviewed the initial purchase process and questions asked as well as the documentation 
sent at the outset and renewal. 
Having looked at the online process Mrs R would have followed when she purchased the 
policy. I can see it clearly asks: Does X have any pre-existing medical conditions which need 
to be covered under this policy? Along with this it says need help and if accessed, on the 
same page, a pop up appears explaining what could be deemed a pre-existing condition. It 
says:
What is a pre-existing condition?
Specific definitions might vary between insurers, but most categorise a pre-existing condition 
as:
A condition that occurred or showed symptoms before the insurance policy was taken out
A condition that results in the same diagnosis that your pet had before the policy was bought
A condition resulting from an illness or injury your pet had before you took the policy out
Regardless of whether you currently have an insurance policy covering your pet, if you have 
seen a vet regarding an accident/illness then this would be classed as a pre-existing 
condition and you will not be covered.
Mrs Rs representative has explained as their dog hadnt been diagnosed with any medical 
condition she answered No and didnt click need help. They dont believe it was clear they 
needed to. However, Mrs R was aware her dog had been unwell on more than one 
occasion, and the vet had suggested among other things that it may be an allergy and 
prescribed medication, so I dont think Mrs R took reasonable care in answering this 
question. 
Whilst Mrs R may not have selected need help and seen the pre-existing definition, it did 
also explain that the policy may not be suitable and highlighted the importance of reading all 
of the policy information to ensure the product meets their needs.The policy documents were sent on the day of purchase on 25 June 2019 and had a 14-day 
cooling off period, meaning if it didnt meet Mrs Rs needs she would have been able to 
cancel it within 14 days of receipt and receive a full refund.
Within those documents was a policy schedule and summary which was also sent when the 
policy renewed. The schedule asked some declaration questions. One of the questions 
asked was Have you ever taken your dog to the vet for anything other than vaccinations? 
And if answered yes directed the policy holder to call them.
Mrs R had taken her dog to the vet for something other than vaccinations, but I cant see she 
called Red Sands at this time as directed. Having seen Red Sands underwriting criteria, if 
Mrs R had called them at this point, Im confident Red Sands would have added an 
exclusion for the digestive system.  
In the summary sent with the policy documents it also clearly explains what isnt covered. It 
says: Any illness or condition which is present or has clinical signs or symptoms before 
taking the policy out or occurs in the first 14 days of the policy.
So, whilst I understand that Mrs Rs dog hadnt been diagnosed with a specific condition at 
the time, the dog had been vomiting prior to the inception of the policy and had visited the 
vet for it. 
The vet suspected it could be a food allergy or bacterial/viral or parasite. Then later in 2019 
the vet also noted further vomiting and treated the dog for possible gastritis, which further 
supports a possible digestive issue.
And later when the claim was made the vet notes detail pancreatitis reduced renal function, 
gastritis, enteritis and partial intestinal obstruction. So overall, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Red Sands to link the initial vomiting to the cause for claim.
Mrs Rs representative has said that Red Sands should have checked information they held 
from 2020 and informed them if something wasnt covered. However, when someone 
purchases insurance there is a responsibility on them to review the documents/ cover to 
ensure it meets their needs. 
It wouldnt be practical for insurers to read all medical notes for every customer. Instead they 
ask specific questions and provide details of any exclusions so the customer can ensure the 
policy meets their needs. And there were questions asked at the outset and at renewal that 
should have prompted Mrs R to call them as her dog had visited the vet for something other 
than vaccinations.
Red Sands have provided information which shows if Mrs R had selected yes to the pre-
existing question at the outset, they wouldnt have offered her a policy. Theyve also 
provided their underwriting criteria, which cannot be shared as its commercially sensitive, 
that shows had they been made aware of these issues at renewal an exclusion wouldve 
been applied for the digestive system. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The actions Red Sands have taken - adding a retrospective exclusion and declining the 
claim - are in line with what CIDRA allows them to do when a careless misrepresentation 
has been made. I agree Mrs Rs misrepresentation was careless as Im satisfied, she was 
aware her dog had been unwell and vomiting prior to the inception of the policy/renewal, 
which the vet had prescribed medication and indicated underlying causes. But she failed to 
disclose this.As Red Sands have acted in accordance with CIDRA, Im not persuaded theyve been unfair 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pre-authorisation call
Ive listened to the call Mrs R made to Red Sands on 29 April 2021. Mrs R advised that her 
dog was already undergoing treatment at the vet as an emergency, but she wanted to check 
if the treatment was covered before making payment.
The adviser asked what her dog was suffering with and having treatment for. Mrs R advised 
gastritis or potential pancreatitis, so all stomach related, and he needed fluids and was 
having further tests. Mrs R advised she had first noticed the symptoms a day or two before 
the visit to the vets.
The adviser explained she couldnt see any specific exclusions for the digestive system, but 
all claims are subject to information from the vet which means they cant give a guarantee 
until they have that information. The adviser also explained they could do a pre-authorisation 
to give a guarantee, but Mrs R explained they had already started treatment as it was an 
emergency. The adviser also provided further details of the policy limits and excess 
applicable.
I understand that because the adviser said there wasnt any exclusions for the digestive 
system, Mrs R may have felt this meant the claim was covered. However, at that point Red 
Sands hadnt been informed about the vomiting prior to the policy inception. And as 
explained above, had they been told, Im persuaded they wouldnt have offered the policy. If 
they had, there wouldve been an exclusion added. 
I note the adviser also said that all claims were subject to information from the vet and they 
couldnt give a guarantee until they received that information. So, Im satisfied no guarantee 
of cover was provided at the time.
I dont underestimate the stressful time Mrs R was going through and the impact it has had 
on her financially. However, Im satisfied Red Sands wouldnt have provided cover for the 
digestive system at the outset given her dogs pre inception symptoms and havent been 
unfair in declining the claim or adding a retrospective exclusion.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman