DRN-3106611
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services. (BMWFS)
What happened
In July 2019 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. At the point of supply the car was 9 years old and had covered around 88,000 
miles.
In September 2020 the car broke down due to the engine dropping into the body of the car, 
which caused damage to the timing belt. Mr A arranged for a rescue organisation to recover 
the car to a garage, who carried out repairs to the engine bolts and replaced the mounting.
In December 2020 the car broke down again. Mr A says there was a bang, followed by 
smoke from the bonnet. The rescue organisation attended and advised Mr A that there was 
a hole in the engine and that the car was beyond economical repair.
Mr A complained to BMWFS. He said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because hed only 
covered 3000 miles in it since the point of supply. In response, BMWFS said it didnt agree 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It said it had spoken to the 
supplying dealer who had confirmed that it had not been notified of any issues. BMWFS said 
it required evidence to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although there was evidence to 
suggest that there was a fault with the car, the time elapsed since the point of supply, 
coupled with the age and mileage of the car, led her to conclude that the fault was due to 
general wear and tear, rather than a fault which was present at the point of supply.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed only covered 3000 miles in the 17 months before the engine 
failed and that if hed used the car as most people do, he would have broken down within the 
first 3 months. He said that in those circumstances it would have been up to the dealership 
to put things right or give him a refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr A  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repirs more often than, say, a brand-new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the 
point of supply which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as opposed to a fault which was 
caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply and its up to the business to put things 
right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer  in this 
case Mr A  to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
There isnt any expert engineering evidence here for me to look at. The only information I 
have about the faults with the car are the rescue organisation reports for each of the 
breakdowns. These reports dont provide any information about the faults or say whether the 
faults would have been present at the point of supply. 
Ive also looked at the invoice for the repairs which were carried out in September 2020. This 
shows that repairs were made to snapped engine bolts and a replacement mounting. But 
again, the invoice doesnt say that there was a fault with the car which was present at the 
point of supply.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account. As Ive already said, its likely that a 
second hand car will have a greater degree of wear and tear and will require repairs more 
frequently than a newer car. I understand the point Mr A makes about the limited mileage 
hed covered in the car, but this of itself without further evidence to show that there was a 
fault at the point of supply, isnt enough for me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
In conclusion, although I agree that there is a fault with the car, there isnt enough evidence 
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. So I cant say the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality and I wont be asking  BMWFS to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman