DRN-1095456
The complaint
Mr G says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2005, Santander sold Mr G a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his mortgage 
repayments if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Santander doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago it took place. And I note what Mr Gs said about 
not wanting PPI. But, from experience of how Santander sold PPI in its branches at the time 
and from the paperwork thats still available, I think Mr G would have had to complete a 
separate application form before the PPI was added. And the paperwork he was sent after 
the sale suggests he chose to take PPI.
Overall, I think its likely Mr G would have known the PPI was optional and that it was only 
added after hed agreed to take it.
 
I can see that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr G. That meant Santander needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the 
PPI it recommended was right for him in any case. For example, from what Mr Gs told us 
about his circumstances, he was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy excluded or limited cover for either. 
Ive noted what Mr G says about being self-employed, which he says meant he couldnt 
benefit under the policy. But Ive carefully checked the policy terms and theres nothing to 
show hed have been treated less favourably than someone who was employed. In any 
case, the mortgage application form and letter from Mr Gs employer from the time indicate 
he was employed rather than self-employed.
In addition, the PPI benefits were considerable and would have paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim. The policy covered unemployment too. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr G 
would have found the monthly premium to be unaffordable. Considering Mr G had entered 
into a long-term financial commitment that was secured against his home, and that he had 
limited means of keeping up with the repayments if he was off work, I think hed have valued 
the security the PPI provided. 
Santander also needed to give Mr G enough information about the PPI to allow him to 
decide for himself if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information Santander 
gave him could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the 
PPI was unsuitable for him, I dont think better information would have affected his decision 
to take it. I think hed still have thought, on balance, that it provided a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Gs lost out because of how Santander 
sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman