DRN-4039490
The complaint
Mr S complains about how UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) handled 
his motor insurance policy. 
References to Direct Line include their agents.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Direct Line, taken out in May 2018. In March 2021 he 
took up a role as a fast food delivery driver (paid on an hourly rate). Mr S thought hed told 
Direct Line about the change and believed the policy provided cover for him in his role (for 
which he needed the appropriate business insurance).
In January 2023 he contacted Direct Line to enquire about an add-on to his policy as he 
would now be paid on a Hire and Reward basis (that is, paid per delivery). However, he 
was told they couldnt offer cover on this basis. But he was also told he wasnt covered for 
any fast food delivery work. Mr S found an alternative insurer that would provide the cover 
he needed. But at much higher cost (a deposit of £574 and a £250 monthly premium  
compared to an annual premium of £691.24 for his policy with Direct Line at the last renewal 
in May 2022). As Mr S had taken out a separate policy, Direct Line cancelled their policy (as 
otherwise Mr S would have duplicate policies) and refunded the remaining balance of his 
premiums and offered £75 compensation.
Mr S complained to Direct Line, asking they refund all the premiums hed paid for his policy 
from when it was taken out and significant compensation (as the experience had been very 
stressful). He also wanted a significant payment towards his new policy.
Direct Line partially upheld the complaint. In their final response they referred to Mr Ss call 
in January 2023 in which they said the call handler told Mr S (when he asked if he was 
covered for fast food delivery) he had business cover on his policy and would be covered for 
this purpose. Direct Line also referred to a previous call in April 2022 when Mr S stated he 
was a delivery driver and asked whether hed be covered were he to make a claim  the call 
handler told him he would be covered. However, Direct Line said Mr S had been informed 
incorrectly on both occasions, so they apologised for giving him incorrect information. 
As hed been given incorrect information, they added that in the event of an incident while 
the policy was in force they would have provided a letter of indemnity. But they didnt uphold 
a further aspect of complaint, that Mr S hadnt been called back when he said he would be. 
By way of compensation, Direct Line increased their offer of compensation to £150.
Mr S then complained to this service. He was unhappy at Direct Line telling him he couldnt 
have the add-on cover and that he hadnt been covered at all for fast food delivery work. He 
said this meant hed been mis-sold his policy in March 2021. Hed been financially affected 
by having to take out cover with another insurer at higher cost. He wanted Direct Line to 
refund the premiums charged and for a contribution towards the increased premiums hed 
had to pay for his new policy. He also wanted substantial compensation for having no 
warning (that he wasnt covered) and the stress and pressure hed been put under. He didnt 
feel the £150 compensation hed been offered by Direct Line was sufficient.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Direct Line had acted reasonably in 
apologising for providing incorrect information and offering £150 compensation in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. While Mr S had taken out a new policy at 
higher cost, there was no evidence this was due to Direct Lines error, and Mr S would 
always have needed to take out new cover once Direct Line told him they couldnt provide 
hire and reward cover. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Direct Line to contribute towards 
the cost of the new policy (which included hire and reward cover, which came at additional 
cost). It was also reasonable for Direct Line to refund the remaining balance of premiums on 
their policy (which Mr S could have used to contribute towards his new policy).
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing he raised several points. First, hed been told (in January 2023) 
that Direct Line didnt provide cover for hire and reward  or any other delivery driver cover 
on an hourly rate basis. But theyd provided cover for the latter (under business use) from 
March 2021 (when he first took up his delivery driver role). Second, there was no evidence 
or proof Direct Line would have provided a letter of indemnity had an incident occurred while 
the policy was in force. Third, because of what had happened, hed had to take out new 
insurance at higher cost (a £574 deposit and monthly premiums of £250). Mr S was also 
concerned that  if his complaint wasnt being upheld  he wouldnt be able to claim the 
£150 compensation offered by Direct Line.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr S has told us about the impact of what happened has 
had on him, both financially and the stress of finding out he wasnt covered for the delivery 
driver role hed had since taking up the role in March 2021. And having to find alternative 
insurance (at short notice and higher cost) when Direct Line told him they didnt offer hire 
and reward cover (or fast food delivery driver cover more generally). Ive borne this in mind 
when deciding (as is my role here) whether Direct Line have acted fairly towards Mr S.
The first issue in Mr Ss complaint is that he was told he was covered for business use in his 
role as a fast food delivery driver when he took up the role in March 2021. Hes provided a 
copy of the insurance document from that date, indicating a change to his policy (as the 
expiry date for the insurance cover is May 2021, which would be the anniversary of his 
taking out the policy in May 2018). Direct Line have acknowledged, in their final response, 
two occasions (April 2022 and January 2023) when they told Mr S he was covered for his 
delivery driver role. However, theyve acknowledged they gave him incorrect information on 
both occasions. 
Looking at the policy documents available (at renewal in May 2022) its clear the policy 
provides cover for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (including travelling to and from a 
permanent place of work) and  for business use  use by the policyholder in connection 
with the policyholders business. But the Certificate of Insurance makes it clear the policy 
doesnt cover use for hire and reward.
In the event, it appears Mr S didnt need to make a claim under the policy (including while 
carrying out his delivery driver role). Direct Line say they would  given they accept theyd 
given him incorrect information about being covered for business use in the role  have 
provided a letter of indemnity should an incident have occurred. In effect, this would have 
meant Mr S would have been indemnified from loss. Ive also considered Mr Ss point about there being no evidence or proof Direct Line would 
have provided such a letter of indemnity had an incident occurred while the policy was in 
force. However, as a contingency, while a letter didnt need to be produced I think Direct 
Lines position is a reasonable one and what I would have expected them to do had the need 
arose.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded Mr S thought he was covered for his delivery 
driver role (from March 2021) when in fact it wasnt the case under the terms of the policy. 
But in practice, the letter of indemnity would have in effect provided cover had the need 
arose. And in any event, cover for the other uses set out above would have been in place, 
given that Mr S was insuring his own vehicle and his delivery driver role was part-time, not 
his main occupation (as recorded in the policy documents). So, I cant see that hes lost out 
financially in respect of his policy with Direct Line as a result of Direct Line giving him 
incorrect information. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Direct Line to refund the 
premiums he paid under the policy (given theyve refunded the balance of premiums 
remaining when they cancelled the policy when Mr S took out his new policy).
But I think it will have been distressing and inconvenient to him to learn he wasnt covered 
under the policy as he thought he was, and that he had to take out alternative insurance with 
another provider. Ill consider this aspect further when considering what Direct Line need to 
do to put things right.
On the point about the cost of his new policy, Mr S says hes had to pay a deposit and then a 
significant monthly premium to obtain alternative cover (and hes provided evidence to 
support this). However, the terms on which his new insurer was willing to provide cover for 
Mr S (including his delivery driver role) is a commercial decision for that insurer, based on 
the information Mr S will have provided about his circumstances and the insurers 
assessment of the level of risk involved. In turn they would have offered to provide cover for 
the premium they considered appropriate to those risks. And it would have been for Mr S to 
decide whether to accept the terms offered, including the level of premium. So, I cant 
reasonably hold Direct Line responsible for those decisions, or ask them to make a 
contribution towards the cost of the new policy.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what Direct Line need to do to put things 
right. Theyve apologised for providing incorrect information to Mr S and offered £150 
compensation. As Ive concluded above, I think Mr S will have suffered distress and 
inconvenience from what happened (thinking he had cover for his delivery driver role and 
having to arrange alternative insurance at short notice). Ive thought carefully about the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S has suffered, taking account of what hes told us and the 
circumstances of the case. Having done so, Ive concluded Direct Lines offer of £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive also considered Mr Ss concern that  if his complaint wasnt 
being upheld  he wouldnt be able to claim the £150 compensation offered by Direct Line. 
However, if Direct Line havent paid the compensation offered, then I expect them to do so 
(and will require them to do so in my final decision).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require UK Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line to:  
Pay Mr S £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (if they havent 
already done so).UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman