DRN-4443922
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc wont reimburse money she says she lost to a 
scam. 
What happened
Ms A was looking to purchase a number of mobile phones on a popular online marketplace. 
She found a seller and placed an order for various items. I understand that at least one of 
the phones was successfully received. The seller explained that they could source more 
phones at reasonable prices. Ms A agreed to purchase a batch of phones, believing that she 
could sell the phones at a profit in another country. Ms A made two payments for the 
phones, totalling £4,420, a few days apart in February 2018.
Unfortunately, the phones didnt arrive and the seller stopped responding to Ms A. Ms A 
says she reported the matter to BOS at the time but didnt raise a complaint until several 
years later.
BOS said that it had considered the complaint in line with the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) even though the event predated the 
introduction of the CRM Code, which requires signatories like BOS to reimburse victims of 
APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. However, it didnt think 
that Ms A had taken sufficient care when making the payments, so it declined to reimburse 
her.
Ms A referred the matter to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They didnt think that BOS ought to have recognised the payments she made as 
being suspicious. But, even if they had, its unlikely that BOS would have had any concerns 
about the transactions, given that Ms A had already successfully received an item from the 
seller.
Ms A didnt agree, she thought that the payments, considering her previous account activity, 
ought to have stuck out as being unusual and should have caused BOS to contact her 
before they processed the payments.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Ms A is responsible for payments shes authorised herself. 
As noted, the events here pre-date the introduction of the CRM Code and I cannot take its 
provisions into account. But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider BOS should fairly and reasonably have been on the lookout for out of 
character and unusual transactions and other indications that its customer might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Im afraid that I cannot agree that these payments ought to have caused BOS significant 
concern. The first payment was for just over £3,000 and, although a little higher than 
payments shed made in the previous six months, it wasnt such an unusual or out of 
character amount that it ought to have caused BOS significant concern. The payments were 
also several days apart and the second payment was smaller than the first, so I cannot see 
that BOS would have been able to identify a concerning pattern. 
So, I dont think that BOS ought to have picked up on the transactions as unusual. But, even 
if it had discussed the payments with Ms A, its difficult to see why it would have been 
concerned about them as Ms A had already successfully received a phone from the seller 
and her friend had visited the sellers home.
Finally, Ive thought about whether BOS could have recovered Ms As money. I cant see 
that it made any attempt to do this, but I can also see no record of Ms A having reported the 
matter to BOS in 2018. Given the time that has now passed, I cant see that BOS would 
have any realistic possibility of recovering her funds and I dont think it is reasonable to 
expect BOS to now attempt recovery. And, even if Ms A did raise a claim with BOS at the 
time, given there appears to be a gap between Ms A making the payment and deciding that 
shed fallen victim to a scam, it seems unlikely any funds would have remained in the 
recipient account. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms A but I do not find that BOS are responsible for 
her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman