DRN-1890228
The complaint
Mr P says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr P says he had been 
borrowing for a long time. He continually topped up his loans and sometimes had several 
running at the same time. Mr P says he got into a cycle of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about 27 home collected credit loans provided to Mr P between June 2013 
and November 2019. Mr Ps borrowing history for the first five loans is as follows:
 1 2 3 4 5
Loan 
amount£900 £700 £950 £500 £700
Start 
date19/06/13 14/11/13 13/03/14 26/06/14 04/12/14
End 
date13/03/14 04/12/14 08/01/15 12/03/15 28/01/16
Further to the above, Mr P took an additional 22 loans and the amounts borrowed ranged 
between £400 and £2,000. The repayments were made weekly.
I understand from Morses repayment schedule that loans 25 to 27 havent been fully repaid 
and the amount outstanding is £3,615.
Morses bought Mr Ps account from another business in March 2014. And prior to Morses 
taking over the account Mr P had taken loans with the previous business. Loans one and 
two listed above were inherited by Morses from the previous business.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ps complaint and thought that the complaint should be upheld. 
The adjudicator said this because they thought the overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing 
indicated he was reliant on this type of loan and the borrowing was unsustainable. The 
adjudicator said Morses should have taken into account the borrowing Mr P had taken with 
the business that previously owned his account. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said Mr P used the lending for non-essential 
spending and it was a lifestyle choice. So, Mr P was reliant on this type of lending out of 
choice. And it said that for it to have taken into account Mr Ps lending with the previous 
business would be the same as it contacting a completely independent company. 
Morses comments didnt change the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having done so, I am upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Like the adjudicator, Im satisfied that it would be reasonable to assume that Morses should 
have been aware of the earlier loans Mr P had taken with the previous business. And it 
should have taken that previous lending history into account when it was deciding whether to 
carry on lending to Mr P. 
Morses has said it would be like contacting a completely independent company for it to have 
checked Mr Ps lending history with the earlier business. But I note that Morses did take on 
the active loans (loans one and two in the above table) Mr P had when it bought his account from the previous business. So, it was aware at the outset that Mr P had taken two previous 
loans with the other lender.
Mr P came back for further borrowing at loan three (the first loan taken out with Morses) the 
same day that loan one was repaid. The amount he borrowed was only £50 more than loan 
one. But the transaction history for loan one shows that it was repaid by a lump sum on the 
day that loan three was taken out. So, it looks likely loan three was used to part repay loan 
one. And Morses was aware that loan two was still outstanding, having been taken four 
months earlier with around a further nine months to run so overall, Mr Ps indebtedness 
would have increased further and for longer by taking out loan three. 
So, I think Morses should have looked into this borrowing behaviour - quick reborrowing, 
using the new loan to partially repay the earlier loan as well as the concurrent lending  to 
see if it should reconsider lending to Mr P. It should have looked to build an accurate picture 
of Mr Ps financial circumstances. It could have done this by asking for evidence of Mr Ps 
income and expenditure  such as asking Mr P for copies of his pay slips and bills as 
examples. It also could have asked Mr P for copies of his bank statements and reviewed his 
credit reports.
If it had done more to build an accurate picture of Mr Ps finances I think its likely that 
Morses wouldve become aware that Mr Ps lending relationship with the previous business 
had been ongoing for a number of years  and Morses club loans were just a continuation of 
the same borrowing relationship. And this same borrowing relationship continued on until   
2019. Morses has said Mr P always met his repayments but I havent gone on to consider 
affordability, I think its more about whether the lending was sustainable.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ps lending, with a view to seeing if Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached from 
when Morses bought the account from the previous lender. I say this because:
Morses ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his lending 
sustainably. If Morses had built more of a picture about Mr Ps lending it would have 
seen he had been borrowing continuously from the previous lender for several years 
and which he wanted to carry on with Morses. So Morses ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and not taking into account 
what Mr P was choosing to use that lending for  and that Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.  
The credit report shows the last loan Mr P had with the previous lender was repaid 
the same day that loan one was taken out. And as Ive said above, loan three was 
taken out the same day Mr P took loan three. This indicates the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr P. 
I think that Mr P lost out because Morses provided the borrowing because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans one to 27. Morses should put things right as 
laid out below. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans one to 27;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken means any information recorded about them is adverse. 
So, all entries about the loans one to 27 should be removed from Mr Ps credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove loans 25 to 27 from Mr Ps credit file until they have 
been repaid, but it should remove any adverse information recorded about these 
loans immediately.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Morses Finance Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Morses Finance Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman