DRN-1870546
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the poor customer service he received from HSBC UK Bank plc
following fraudulent applications for credit made in his name.
What happened
In early April 2019, Mr M told HSBC that an application for credit made in his name wasnt
completed by him.
During HSBCs investigation, a further fraudulent application was attempted.
At the end of May, HSBC wrote to Mr M to let him know it had completed its investigation, 
confirming that it agreed both applications were fraudulent. It told him that both applications 
had been declined and that the credit searches had been deleted from his credit file.
During the course of its investigation, Mr M phoned HSBC on many occasions to find out 
what progress was being made and he complained about the time it was taking. There had 
been other fraudulent applications with other businesses - and Mr M said these were dealt 
with very quickly. He said he couldnt get HSBC to respond to his complaint, so he referred it 
to us.
His complaint was considered by one of our investigators. During her investigation, HSBC 
realised that it hadnt asked the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) to remove the credit 
searches. It told us on 3 February that this had now been done and it offered to pay Mr M 
£150 compensation. Mr M did not accept this and provided evidence showing how often hed 
contacted HSBC and how long hed spent on the phone. Following further mediation, the 
bank twice increased its compensation offer  its final offer being £250, which our 
investigator considered to be fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree. He provided evidence to show that the credit searches had still not been 
removed from his credit file and that hed been paying £9.99 each month for a credit check 
service. And he emphasised the amount of time hed had to spend dealing with this. 
My provisional decision
I agreed with our investigator that HSBC should pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I thought this fair and reasonable, taking into account the number of 
phone calls Mr M made to HSBC and the amount of time it had taken for the credit searches 
to be removed. And I explained why I thought it should also pay him £99.90 to reimburse him 
for the cost of checking his credit file for 10 months. I said:
Mr M told HSBC about the applications in April 2019. By the end of May, the bank had 
completed its investigation. Whilst I appreciate Mr M would have liked a conclusion earlier, I 
dont find this timescale unreasonable and Ive not seen anything to suggest there was any 
error by HSBC which delayed its investigation.In May 2019, HSBC told Mr M it had arranged for the credit searches to be removed from  
his credit file. During our investigation, it realised it hadnt in fact done this. Mr M has now 
confirmed the credit searches have been removed  although they were still showing in  
April 2020. So its taken around a year for HSBC to update Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M paid a monthly fee of £9.99 so that he could check his credit file. The service he  
signed up to enabled him to check his records with four CRAs. Bearing in mind there had  
been several fraudulent applications in his name, I dont think its unreasonable that he 
decided to pay for this service, rather than signing up to each individual CRA, which would  
have been more time-consuming for him. He continued to need to check his credit record 
because he wanted to make sure all evidence of the applications had been removed.
HSBC should have instructed the CRAs to amend Mr Ms credit file at the end of May 2019. 
It can take up to six weeks for the CRAs to make the amendments, so Mr M would probably 
have needed to check his credit record up to and including July 2019. But, because of 
HSBCs error, he continued to need to check up to and including May 2020  so a further 10 
months. I think HSBC should reimburse Mr M for the cost of the credit check service for 
these 10 months - £99.90.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC and Mr M said they agreed with my provisional decision. That being the case, I see 
no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK bank plc should:
1. Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
2. Pay Mr M £99.90 to reimburse him for the cost of checking his credit file for 10
months. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman