DRN-3828503
The complaint
Mr F says BW SIPP LLP (BW) was responsible for errors and poor handling when he sought 
to transfer ownership of a commercial property into his Self-invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He says this caused him to abandon the transaction and has caused him financial 
detriment. 
What happened
Firstly, I need to make clear what this decision does and doesnt cover. Im focussed on 
those elements of Mr Fs complaint which relate to the acts and omissions of BW. Im not 
considering his allegations about the conduct of his financial adviser  which was the subject 
of a separate complaint.
Further, I dont have the authority to address issues raised by Mr F which relate to the 
conduct or quality of the legal services he received. These should be referred to the relevant 
companies in the first instance, and then the Legal Ombudsman if necessary.
In August 2018, following advice from his financial advisor Mr F switched three of his existing 
pension plans into a SIPP with BW. The purpose of this was for his SIPP to purchase a 
commercial property, which he already owned.
Broadly speaking, for most intents and purposes, a SIPP (including the investments it holds) 
is a separate legal entity to the beneficiary and/or any business interest they might have. 
This means it is protected in the eventuality of financial distress of those other parties.
This has a number of practical implications, for example, as well as Mr F appointing his own 
solicitor in the transaction, separate legal representation was also required to look after the 
interests of his SIPP. For the purposes of this decision Ill refer to this solicitor as (Z).
As part of the process Mr F completed a Property Purchase Questionnaire and signed up to 
the associated declaration on 16 August 2018. Following receipt of Zs Terms of Business, 
and after finalising the position with his own solicitor about car parking at the property in 
September 2018, he agreed to move ahead with the transaction on 19 October 2018.
During this process, Mr F advised that in the previous four years works had been carried out 
on the windows and flat roof at the commercial property. An important responsibility of Z was 
to conduct due diligence on the proposed investment being taken into the SIPP. Following to 
and fro between solicitors, it was confirmed by December 2018 that he hadnt sought 
building regulation approval for the works.
In January 2019 Z indicated that the SIPP trustees had three options to address the issue: 
ask Mr F to seek a building regularisation certificate (BRC) from the local council; reduce the 
purchase price to reflect the potential requirement for remedial works to be carried out; or to 
secure indemnity insurance. And it advised BW that the certificate would be the best option.
Between January and February 2019 BWs Investment Committee considered the request 
for Mr Fs SIPP to purchase his commercial property. But it required a BRC before it would 
approve the proposal because it didnt want to expose his SIPP to what it saw as potential 
liabilities.
Mr F still wanted to proceed with the transaction on 7 March 2018 and had arranged for an 
inspection of his property by the local authority. A BRC was obtained and BW staff informed 
its Investment Committee of such on 20 March 2019. The Committee confirmed its 
agreement for the transaction to proceed the same day.
BW confirmed to Mr F on 4 April 2019 that he could proceed with the purchase within his BW 
SIPP. Legal documents were signed and funds were being arranged to be transferred on 7 
June 2019, but he decided to put matters on hold.
Mr F raised a complaint about what had happened during the transaction with BW. He 
identified several concerns, including what he considered to be mistakes it had made, and 
the increasingly complicated and expensive process hed had to go through. Specific matters 
he raised included: the notification and quantum of legal fees incurred; errors in instruction 
such as informing the Investment Committee his property had had an extension, which he 
believes led to increased costs; conflicting guidance about rent collection arrangements; and 
the duplication of fees for matters hed already dealt with.
BW apologised for what it acknowledged was unacceptable service and delays. It noted that 
it had capped its own costs in relation to the transaction and that Z had reduced its billable 
hours by a third. But it also pointed out its responsibility for looking after the interests of his 
SIPP. And that Mr F was aware of the costs involved. And hed signed up to the terms of 
agreement which enabled it to make charges when there had been a withdrawal from a 
transaction, but costs had been incurred.
An Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint. He didnt uphold it because although he could 
see BW hadnt done everything perfectly, he didnt think this resulted in him facing higher 
costs than he shouldve.
Mr F disagreed; in a recent submission he summarised his position in the following terms: 
I am under total disbelief that a professional company can make repeated mistakes and I 
am to pay for them!
In a nut shell, I was led to the door of BW by [my financial adviser] who advised me he 
would guide me through the process of securing a SIPP with BW yet after numerous 
mistakes were made and complaints to [him] he decided to not correspond with me leaving 
me at what I will call the mercy of BW, with no route forward I used BW complaints 
procedure
I was forced into a situation out of my control and had to abandon the transaction due to the 
incompetence of BW, and regardless of reduced fees as a sign of good will etc or whatever, 
they caused the delays/mistakes in what was a simple transaction incurring abnormal fees.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Fs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. Im 
grateful to both parties for their short final submissions, which Ive thought about carefully. 
But neither has given me telling reason to depart from my main initial findings and 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by BW for Mr F. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BW. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
My starting point is the authority for BW to take funds from Mr Fs SIPP in order to settle 
outstanding bills arising from the management and administration of his pension. This 
includes provision for the situation where transactions dont proceed, but where expenses 
have been incurred.
Mr F acknowledges receiving the Property Guide and Panel Solicitor Fee schedule, which 
set out in some detail the costs typically associated with a SIPP property purchase.
Mr F also signed a Property Purchase Questionnaire on 16 August 2018, this included an 
agreement and declaration. There are various clauses relevant to his case, including BWs 
appointment of panel solicitors and other professionals to protect the interests of his SIPP. 
Of most relevance is Section 14 point 11, which states:
I/we acknowledge that, in the event of the purchase not proceeding for whatever reason, all 
costs incurred up to the point that BW SIPP LLP and any third party providers receive 
notification of the cancellation, will be met by me/us. Third party fees (e.g. panel solicitor) will 
be settled by the relevant SIPP fund(s), in proportion to all intended co-owners.
I think this provision is clear. BW was able to take funds from Mr Fs SIPP in order to settle 
fees and charges arising.
But I also need to consider some of the specific concerns Mr F raises about the actions of 
BW. He thinks it made mistakes which led to higher legal fees being levied against his SIPP. 
For example, and most significant to him, was the instance where BW referred matters to its 
Investment Committee and it initially formed the wrong impression about works on Mr Fs 
property.On 10 January 2019, BWs Investment Committee considered the proposal for purchase of 
Mr Fs commercial property by his SIPP. It rejected the request saying:
In order to consider this again we would require option 1 from the solicitors email to be met 
which is 1. Require that the seller obtains a regularisation certificate from the local 
authoritys building control department (including undertaking any works necessary to obtain 
such a certificate) prior to completion. The reasoning behind this is that should this not be 
granted retrospectively, we understand that BW could be liable to demolish the unapproved 
extension and the costs associated with this. This is not a risk we are willing to take on.
However, I can see on 1 February 2019 BW staff clarified the position for its Investment 
Committee:
We passed the info to the client and have received the response attached. The works we 
are missing the certificate for consists of three replacement windows and a flat roof. Im 
unsure if this changes matters but please advise so we can respond to client.
On 4 February 2019, the Investment Committee restated its position:
Unfortunately, the clients comments dont change our position and we would still request 
that the certificate is obtained prior to purchase as our concerns still persist that we could be 
left with a potential liability to restore the property back to its former self. As the vendor here 
is the client we feel that this is something which the client can reasonably carry out prior to 
us accepting it in the BW SIPP.
So, I can understand why Mr F was concerned about reference to his property having had 
an extension when this wasnt true. BW tried to put his mind at rest on this point  it 
acknowledged the reference was spurious and led to no additional work being undertaken or 
fees being charged. I recognise hes sceptical on this point, but the information Ive seen 
leads me to conclude the matter was clarified, and it was other outstanding matters which 
meant the proposal couldnt continue until a building regulation certificate had been secured.
Mr F thought that the way the costs of the transaction were conveyed was misleading and 
incorrect. And he says fees were incurred when his consent shouldve been sought. I think 
theres merit in his argument. For example, when he was trying to resolve matters with BW 
in October 2020 he told it:
I was advised by yourselves on 7 June 2019 that the fee [for Z] was £1440 including VAT, 
but by November 2019 this had risen to £1696 plus VAT. I was unaware of this as I didnt 
receive any advice of it. I was then chasedfor a total of £3076, when again I had not 
received any advice or invoices
I am prepared to be realistic regarding legal work and relevant costs. However I do not 
believe that the legal costs are reasonable in this case...I simply cannot understand why they 
are more than double that which you advised me on 7 June 2019. Further they also 
materially exceed the original illustration you provided cost of property acquisition £2,000 inc 
VAT
There are several matters to unpick here. Firstly, the illustration for the cost of property 
acquisition was an estimate of BWs fees. I can see Mr F has been provided with a 
breakdown of these charges, which I understand were to be capped at £2,000. The fees 
charged by Z were a separate matter. I think it shouldve been clear to him from the various 
documents he received that BW would be making charges and that these were separate 
from the legal fees hed incur.However, I can see on 7 June 2019 BW advised Mr F that Zs legal fees would be £1,440. 
This was based on a flat-fee assumption. It was misleading because Z had already done 
more work on his case than standard because of the complications that had arisen along the 
way. And it shouldve made clear this was a figure excluding disbursements, such as search 
fees.
Further, two invoices were raised, one for £1696 in July 2019 and another for £1380 in 
October 2019. Mr F says he didnt receive all the paperwork. And the full position on legal 
fees doesnt appear to have been revealed to him until June 2020. I can see how in the 
context of BWs earlier advice about charges, this added to his confusion and concern.
So, BW failed to communicate with Mr F about his legal fees in a way that was clear and not 
misleading.
Ive thought further about how Mr F shouldve been kept informed of legal fees being 
incurred. The terms of Zs agreement with BW said (bolding is my emphasis):
we estimate fees at £1,200 plus VAT and disbursements. This is not a fixed or capped 
fee but we will discuss any revision to the estimate with you. Your continued instructions 
after being provided with a revised estimate will be taken as your acceptance of it. If at any 
time you require an estimate or updated estimate of what our fees are likely to be or wish to 
set a limit beyond which we must obtain your authority to proceed, please contact me.
Z also set out the hourly rates of those it expected to be working on his case. This was Mr A 
at £305 and Mr B at £170. It also said hourly rates were normally reviewed annually with 
changes brought into effect from 1st May. It said changes in hourly rates would be notified. 
While I note that Mr B conducted all of the work on Mr Fs case, his fee rate did increase 
over time.
I think there are some problems here for BW. It hasnt provided any evidence of how it (or Z 
as its service provider/agent) kept Mr F informed of the growing costs associated with the 
purchase by his SIPP of his commercial property. Neither did it inform him about changes to 
the hourly rate he was being charged. This was a significant failing.
Matters became intractable between the parties by the end of 2020. Mr F wrote to BW in the 
following terms on 18 December 2020:
As [Zs] fees are not to be reduced further, I wish to raise a formal complaint in an eort to 
nally resolve matters including the important fact that some of the legal fees should not 
have been charged to me (see my points below).
Your email of the 18th Jan 2019 which clearly states that a decision was made not to take 
on the property and I quote:  The reasoning behind this is that should this not be granted 
retrospectively, we understand that Barnett Waddingham could be liable to demolish the 
unapproved extension and costs associated with this. This is not a risk we are willing to take 
on
Lets be clear on this. THE PROPERTY DID NOT HAVE AN EXTENSION! So where did [Z] 
get this information from as he was working under Barnett Waddinghams instruction? This 
was the catalyst that created the extra work involved with [Z], so whoever got the information 
wrong, it is at their cost not mine!
Ive covered this particular matter  Ive found that mention of the extension to his property 
didnt have the effect of adding more cost into Zs fees. Issues associated with his 
declaration of works on the flat roof and windows did have an effect.Mr F believes due to the errors caused by BW, hes incurred additional legal fees, however 
Ive not seen any evidence of additional fees being charged in relation to such. Indeed, Z 
provided a schedule which broke down its billable hours by activity. This showed it couldve 
sought payment (excluding disbursements) for £3,503 (or £4,204 including VAT) up until 7 
July 2019. But it only charged £2150 excluding disbursements (or £2,580- including VAT).
It's not the role of this Service to scrutinise legal fees. But theres nothing obvious from Zs 
schedule that stands out as being wrong. So I cant agree with Mr F on this matter.
The overall process took longer to complete than a standard property purchase by a SIPP. 
In one letter BW sent to Mr F it apologised for its service and the delays in this regard. It also 
undertook to cap its costs at £2,000. And its appropriate to acknowledge that Z did reduce 
its billable hours by nearly a third. I think this was a significant concession.
What remains somewhat ambiguous from both parties is why it took these decisions to 
mitigate the costs faced by Mr F. Neither has been clear about the things they got wrong and 
neither has provided further commentary here.
With regards to other costs associated with the transaction, Mr F said:
During the build-up I had carried out several tasks of instructing valuers, asbestos reports, 
solicitor, rent, insurance, etc. These were all picked up on by BW who then emailed me what 
was now in place or had been done and then charged me for it.
BW says it instructed the valuation, solicitors and insurance report as it was required to do 
for a SIPP property purchase. Where anything was instructed by Mr F it was still required to 
review and document the reports and surveys to ensure they comment on and evidence the 
information needed to satisfy its due diligence responsibilities. Therefore BW legitimately 
accrued time and cost on these matters. And where documents were provided to the 
solicitor, they would similarly have spent time reviewing these. It said this was normal in 
property purchase transactions.
Mr F hasnt been able to evidence that BW raised charges that were inappropriate or 
incorrect.
Mr F says he thinks moving his commercial property into his SIPP shouldve been a straight-
forward transaction. There were several other issues that cropped up during the process that 
left Mr F dissatisfied with BWs service. For example, there was some confusion with what 
would happen with the car-parking space associated with his commercial premises. There 
were problems with the lease his solicitors had drawn-up for a prospective tenant, and the 
insurance arranged. And different expectations about how property management would 
proceed, in particular rent collection.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said, but I disagree with his overall observation. There are 
many moving parts to a commercial property purchase by a SIPP. Ive already set out the 
necessary distinction between Mr F as the owner and his SIPP as the purchaser. Both had 
interests which needed to be protected.
This necessarily gave rise to the engagement of different parties, such as the two sets of 
solicitors, the SIPP provider, any advisers and Mr F. Its possible to see how 
communications can sometimes go awry.
There have clearly been delays and miscommunications on Mr Fs case. For example, BWs 
Investment Committee process seems to have been drawn out and the outcome from this 
was slow in being relayed to him. On the other side, I think the Property Questionnaire Mr F completed had a number of gaps, for example around property management details which 
required follow-up work.
But I havent concluded, being mindful especially of the cost mitigations Z and BW put in 
place for Mr F, these matters led to him incurring what he described as abnormal costs  the 
crux of his complaint.
While I appreciate that Zs legal fees were about £1,100 more than hed been led to believe 
in June 2019, when set against costs already sunk and the scale and complexity of the 
overall transaction, this was relatively modest. I dont think it couldve been the main trigger 
for his decision to withdraw  it wouldnt have been a proportionate response. He couldve 
proceeded and still challenged those fees he felt were incorrect/inappropriate.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr F noted it wasnt Zs fees that caused him to 
withdraw (he wasnt aware of the full scale of these at that time). Rather, hes confirmed:
I had told my solicitor in June 2019 that if we met with any more mistakes or problems 
before exchange from BW that I wished to pull out, and that is what happened!
I can see that Mr F had been associated with the commercial property for nearly 20 years. 
He had formed clear views about how hed wanted to proceed, including overall 
management. But he wasnt an expert in pension matters. And the situation he was entering 
into was complicated. So, there was a learning curve for him to go through.
Overall, Ive found there were failings in how BW communicated with Mr F about the 
transaction it was overseeing for him, to bring his commercial property into his SIPP. Most 
significant were those relating to setting out in a clear and not misleading way what fees and 
charges he was incurring. This along with other snags led to undermine his confidence in the 
service it was providing and contributed to protracted negotiations and ultimately dispute 
over what he should pay.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Fs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of BWs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
In recognition of the trouble and inconvenience it has caused Mr F, I require BW SIPP LLP 
to pay him £300.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint for the reasons Ive set out. I now require BW SIPP LLP to 
put things right in the way Ive directed.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman