DRN-1457683
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that the premiums for his reviewable whole of life policy with The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as Scottish Provident) increased 
significantly when the policy was reviewed in 2019. 
What happened
Mr W took out the policy in 2004. It was sold to him by an independent financial adviser 
(IFA), and provided an initial sum assured of £100,000 for a monthly premium of just 
over £200. It seems he was initially quoted a premium of just over £100 but it was increased 
as a result of medical rating.  
The policy was set up on a maximum cover basis, so the sum assured was guaranteed for 
the first ten years, after which it would be reviewed, with the possibility that the premiums 
might need to be increased, or the sum assured reduced. 
However, at the first review in 2014 the policy 'passed'. So, there was no requirement for any 
changes to be made and the sum assured was guaranteed for a further five years. But at the 
next review, in 2019, the premiums needed to be increased to just over £717. It was this 
large increase that prompted Mr W's complaint. 
Royal London didn't uphold the complaint as it considered it had administered the policy 
correctly, in line with its terms, and that the significant increase was mainly due to Mr W's 
age - by 2019 he was 75.  Mr W didn't accept Royal London's responses and referred the 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator also didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He explained how the 
policy had operated and that the possibility of an unfavourable review had always been a 
potential risk. But the investigator felt the fact that Mr W had now been faced with this 
outcome didn't mean Royal London had acted unfairly. He felt it had followed the terms and 
conditions and regulatory requirements of the policy, in accordance with industry standards.
Mr W didn't agree. He responded to say, in brief:
He was not informed at the outset that the premiums might be increased by such a 
large amount. 
The 2019 review letter indicated that the premiums may rise again at the next review 
in 2024, but this was misleading as they almost certainly would.
It seemed that there'd been a recent change in the way the policy was invested, 
which suggested it was mis-sold. It had performed poorly and hadn't met his 
requirements. 
The premium increases were neither fair nor justifiable. 
 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my view of the complaint, I should confirm that this decision concerns solely 
the issue of the review and the premium increases and Royal London's responsibilities in 
that respect. As Mr W has been made aware, I'm not considering a separate matter 
of incorrect indexation increases applied to the policy between 2004 and 2009. And I've also 
not considered the issue of whether the policy was suitable for Mr W. Responsibility for 
determining the suitability was the responsibility of the IFA that sold the policy to him. 
In respect of Royal London's role, while I can appreciate why Mr W was shocked to receive 
notification of such a large increase in premiums, I've not seen anything that persuades me 
Royal London has acted incorrectly. It carried out the reviews at the correct intervals and 
because the policy was set up on a maximum cover basis (meaning that a lower proportion 
of each premium was invested) it was always likely that increases, potentially large ones, 
would be needed - if not at the first review then certainly at the second and subsequent 
reviews.
Responsibility for explaining this would, as noted, have sat with the IFA. Royal London 
simply carried out the reviews in line with the policy's terms and conditions. I note that Mr W 
has provided a Key Features document that explains that review increases will be 'fair and 
reasonable'. But Royal London has said that the document isn't applicable to when Mr W's 
policy was sold. And, in any event, the standard provisions document that is applicable to 
the policy makes no mention of review outcomes being fair and reasonable.  
What the standard provisions document does do is explain that reviews would take account 
of a number of factors, including - but not limited to - the value of units allocated to the 
policy, the period to the next review, the age and sex of the policyholder, the expected future 
cost of life cover, and any special terms applying as a result of extra risks. 
I did question the level of premium increase with Royal London as I accept that it is, by any 
standard, a large amount. But it has reconfirmed that the figures are correct. So it seems 
that it's the combination of the factors set out above that have led to the need to increase the 
premium by so much. I would imagine this is primarily because of Mr W's age, as by the time 
of the next review he will be nearly 80. And while I don't know how much impact it will have 
had on the outcome of the reviews, it's worth remembering that the policy's premiums 
were very heavily rated at the outset. 
So, in summary, while I recognise that Mr W will be very disappointed, I'm unable to 
conclude that Royal London has acted incorrectly or unfairly in respect of the administration 
of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman