DRN-3969886
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the service it should have.
What happened
Mr H made several calls to Barclays on 1 April 2022. His initial calls about a transaction he 
was concerned about have been dealt with as part of a separate complaint. This complaint is 
regarding the calls that happened after this, when Mr H contacted Barclays about getting a 
second complaint reference number.
Mr H says that the agents he spoke with were evasive and didnt provide him with the 
information he was requesting. He says he spent a lot of time on calls dealing with different 
people who didnt assist him. 
Barclays didnt issue a final response letter in regard to this complaint instead raised the 
issue as a consumer concern. It logged the issue and upheld it. It said feedback would be 
provided.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She didnt agree with Mr Hs comments about the first 
agent and instead found the agent was trying to assist Mr H. However, on a later call she 
thought that the agent should have set up a complaint rather than a concern as Mr H had 
made it clear he wanted referral rights to this service. She also thought the agent could have 
provided better service in response to Mr Hs question about when he would receive contact 
from the complaints team and she thought the call should have been handled with a more 
serious tone. She did however think that the complaints team had kept in touch with Mr H 
after the complaint was logged. Because of the upset this issue had caused Mr H she 
recommended that Barclays pay Mr H £75 compensation.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view and reiterated the issues he had experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr H is upset by his experience in dealing with Barclays on the calls on 1 
April and the resulting complaint. As noted above, the initial calls regarding the transaction 
Mr H was concerned about have been dealt with separately. This decision is in regard to the 
subsequent calls when Mr H was trying to raise a further complaint about the service he had 
received.
I have listened to the calls and can hear how upset Mr H is. Mr H was transferred to an 
agent for his second complaint to be logged. On this call he explains that he has been on 
calls for two hours and he is clearly upset by the service he has received. Mr H keeps asking 
for the complaint reference number but as this new complaint hasnt been logged at that 
stage, I appreciate the agent couldnt provide this. The agent asks for details to log the 
complaint but by this time Mr H has lost patience with the call. While I understand Mr Hs 
frustration, I also accept that the agent was trying to assist in logging the complaint but as 
Mr H didnt provide the details he wasnt able to do this. At the end of the call the agent 
provides Mr H with a contact number for the complaints team. While the agent does reiterate 
he can log the complaint, he doesnt make it clear that the number he is providing isnt a 
complaint reference but instead a phone number (even though Mr H questioned this). So, 
while I appreciate that Mr H was getting more forceful with his request for the reference 
number, I think the agent could have been clearer about why he couldnt provide this without 
first having details of the complaint and then, if necessary, why he was providing a contact 
number for another team.
Mr H called back later that day and on this call the agent was clear with Mr H that there was 
only one complaint logged, that is the second complaint Mr H had wished to log hadnt been 
submitted. The agent was apologetic for the service Mr H had experienced and explained 
that he would need to transfer Mr H for a new complaint to be logged. Mr H then spoke with 
an agent from the complaints team and it is clear how upset he is. The agent did try to 
explain why he was asking the questions he was. The agent then provided an incorrect 
reference number (for a historic complaint) and then the reference for the complaint Mr H 
had raised initially that morning about the transaction. He did then log the new concerns 
about the service Mr H had received and provided the reference number for this. However, 
this was raised as a concern rather than a full complaint which was what Mr H had 
requested. The agent offered to send a gift, but Mr H didnt accept this. A letter responding 
to Mr Hs concern was then sent which referred to an agent that Mr H hadnt spoken with.
In this case, I agree that Mr H wasnt provided with the service he should have been. He had 
to spend a long time on calls and had to speak to several people to get his issues logged. 
He made it clear he wanted to have the opportunity to escalate a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, but his issues were raised as a concern without referral rights. 
Therefore, I think compensation should be provided. However, I have also considered that 
on the calls the agents were trying to assist Mr H in logging his complaint and did try to 
explain why they were asking the questions they were. Given this I think that the £75 
compensation recommended by our investigator is reasonable.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £75 for the upset and distress caused in regard to 
the service issues he experienced 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman