DRN-4350545
The complaint
Ms C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (trading as BUPA Global) declined further 
cover for treatment by her therapist. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms C is a member of a group private medical insurance 
scheme. She was diagnosed with depression and prescribed cognitive behaviour 
therapy (CBT). Ms C began CBT with Ms H and BUPA paid several claims in relation to 
that treatment. 
In early December 2022, Ms C submitted a claim to BUPA for CBT provided by Ms H. 
On 20 December 2022, BUPA declined Ms Cs claim. It said that Ms H wasnt a 
recognised medical practitioner covered by Ms Cs membership. Ms C queried that 
decision and in early January 2023, BUPA authorised Ms Cs December claim as an 
exception and said that it wouldnt authorise future claims for treatment by Ms H. It said 
that it wasnt able to determine that Ms H is a qualified psychologist accredited by the 
British Psychology Society or a registered psychotherapist. 
Ms C complained to BUPA about its decision. BUPA maintained its position in relation to 
Ms Cs claim. It said that it only covers treatment by a registered psychologist, a 
registered psychotherapist, or a psychiatrist. BUPA said that Ms H is registered to 
practice cognitive behaviour therapy in the UK and has a degree in clinical 
neuropsychology but theres no indication that she is registered in the UK as a 
psychologist. It said that it expects all therapist to be registered with the                     
Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and Ms H isnt registered with HCPC. 
BUPA said that it had led Ms C to believe that it would continue to cover claims and paid 
Ms C compensation of £100 in relation to that. 
Ms C didnt think that was fair and pursued her complaint. She says that BUPA paid 
previous claims following treatment by Ms H. Ms C says that BUPA refuses to say what 
qualifications Ms H is missing. She says that BUPA is insisting that she use a therapist 
from its own network, even though the policy promises to cover providers outside its 
network. Ms C says that Ms H has the same qualification as the therapists in BUPAs 
network. She wants BUPA to consider the information it has about Ms Hs qualifications 
and authorise the claim. 
Ms C also wants compensation for the delay in treatment. She says that she didnt have 
CBT from December 2022 to late April 2023 because of BUPAs inconsistent and slow 
response. She changed to another treatment provider but would have continued 
treatment with Ms H but for BUPAs decision in relation to her claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unfairly here. The investigator said that BUPA declined Ms Cs claim fairly and in 
line with the membership terms. He thought that compensation of £100 was fair in 
relation to service issues. 
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She queried whether psychotherapists must be 
registered with HCPC. There was further correspondence, but the investigator didnt 
change his view. Ms C asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 29 August 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant membership terms
Ms Cs cover includes payment of consultants, psychologists, and psychotherapists fees 
for mental health treatment. The membership guide defines a psychologist and 
psychotherapist as:
A person who is legally qualified and is permitted to practise as such in the country where 
the treatment is received. 
The membership guide defines a therapist as:
 A physiotherapist, occupational therapist, orthoptist, dietician or speech therapist who is 
legally qualified and is permitted to practice as such in the country where the treatment is 
received.
 
has BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold   
Ms Cs complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated her fairly or reasonably in 
declining her claim. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of 
the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
I think theres been confusion in this case about terminology and accreditation of 
mental health treatment providers. Ms H isnt a therapist, as defined in BUPAs 
membership terms, which Ive set out above. Ms Cs membership terms provide 
cover for mental health treatment by a consultant, psychologist or psychotherapist 
who is legally qualified and permitted to practise in the UK. Ms H isnt a consultant. 
The question for me to decide is whether BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Ms Cs claim on the basis that Ms H isnt legally qualified and permitted to 
practise in the UK as a psychologist or psychotherapist. 
The terms psychologist and psychotherapist are not protected titles. So, treatment 
providers using those titles dont need to be registered by HCPC. HCPC does 
regulate nine protected titles for psychologists: practitioner; registered; clinical; 
forensic; counselling; health; educational; occupational and sport and exercise. Ms H 
says that she isnt a clinical or counselling psychologist, so isnt registered with 
HCPC.Ms H says that  she is registered as a CBT therapist with the British Association for 
Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP). Thats a voluntary register. 
She says that shes also registered as an eye movement desensitisation and 
reprocessing therapy (EMDR) practitioner with EMDR Europe, the professional 
association of national EMDR associations. 
As psychologist and psychotherapist arent protected titles, based on what Ive 
seen, Ms H is qualified and permitted to practice as a psychologist or psychotherapist 
in the UK. 
Ive thought about BUPAs reference in the membership terms to legally qualified. 
Theres no legal qualification required to use the title psychologist or 
psychotherapist. BUPA may have wished to limit cover for psychologists and 
psychotherapists to those registered with statutory regulators or certain professional 
bodies. But thats not set out in the membership terms.  
In any event, in the particular circumstances here, I dont think that it was fair and 
reasonable for BUPA to decline Ms Cs claim mid treatment. It had previously 
authorised Ms Cs treatment with Ms H and I dont think that it was fair and 
reasonable for BUPA to take a different view part way through treatment when 
nothing had changed. 
I dont think that BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Cs claim in this 
case. Whilst BUPA covered Ms Cs treatment with Ms H, its decision to decline future 
claims caused delay and discontinuity in Ms Cs care whilst she was unwell and 
required treatment. Ms C was put to the trouble of finding a new treatment provider 
part way through her therapy. That caused Ms C distress and inconvenience. 
Considering everything, I think fair compensation in relation to that is £400 in addition 
to the compensation of £100 BUPA has already paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Ms C and BUPA accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms C nor BUPA has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that BUPA acted fairly or reasonably in declining 
Ms Cs claim. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, BUPA should pay Ms C compensation of £400 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience in addition to the compensation of £100 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BUPA Insurance Limited should take the 
step Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman