DRN-1563599
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined a claim 
she made because it was unable to trace a policy held by her late father.   
What happened
Mrs N claimed to Royal London on her fathers life assurance policy. The policy was taken 
out by Mrs Ns mother in 1962. Royal London rejected the claim as it was unable to find any 
record of the policy. Mrs N complained to Royal London. Royal London said it had no record 
of the policy, nor did it have any evidence to show the required premiums had been paid up 
to the point of her fathers death.
Mrs N didnt agree with Royal Londons response and referred her complaint to our service. 
She said Royal London had paid out on another policy and so should accept this claim. She 
also thought the policy document shed provided was enough to prove the policy existed. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied by 
the evidence provided by Royal London that it had done enough to try and locate Mrs Ns 
late fathers policy. But there wasnt any evidence to show the policy was in place at the time 
of his death. 
Mrs N didnt accept our investigators findings and so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. She felt that if Royal London accepted the policy had been taken 
out, it should be able to show whether it was still active.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mrs N as this has been a difficult time for her and her 
family. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Its clear from the policy document Mrs N provided to Royal London that her father had life 
cover. Because of that, and because a previous claim had been successful, I can 
understand why Mrs N made a claim to Royal London when her father sadly passed away. 
For a claim under a life assurance policy to be successful, the policy must be in place at the 
time of the life assureds death. From the policy document, Royal London was able to 
provide generic information about the type of cover Mrs Ns father had. But whilst it has 
records of policies that hold value back to the 1900s, its got no records to show her fathers 
policy was in place, or had any value, at the time of his death. Royal Londons speculated on why it holds no record of the policy. It could be because it had 
lapsed; no premiums were paid; or because it had been cashed in at some point earlier. Any 
of those scenarios are possible. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that theres no 
record of the policy being active at the time of Mrs Ns fathers death, so I cant say Royal 
London acted unfairly by declining claim.   
If Mrs N has any information to show the policy was in place, such as evidence that 
premiums were being paid for the policy up to the time of her fathers death, then Royal 
London has said its happy to consider that. This seems fair to me, and so I wont be asking 
Royal London to do any more. If Mrs N has any further evidence, then she should present 
that to Royal London for it to consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman