DRN-2630381
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited, trading as VitalityLife (Vitality), 
gave him incorrect information about his whole-of-life policy.
What happened
In 2018, Mr C took out a whole-of-life policy with Vitality. He took an option to have a 
Wellness Optimiser added on which gave a discount and meant his annual premium 
increase would depend on his health status. His policy premiums would increase annually up 
until age 80.
In 2019, Mr Cs annual statement said that the increases would happen up to age 70 at 
which point hed be given a wellness status and his health checks would cease. Mr C 
explained he continued his policy in this basis. In 2020, his annual statement said that there 
was an error in the 2019 statement and that the premiums would increase up to age 80. 
However, Mr C was also sent a copy of the terms and conditions which, again, said the 
increase would cease at age 70.
Mr C complained to Vitality which said that the new terms had been sent out in error. It 
acknowledged it had given him incorrect information and offered him £250 compensation. It 
said that it couldnt apply the new terms to his policy as his policy was running in the right 
way in line with what hed signed up for. Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt that the offer Vitality had made was fair. She explained that it was clear 
Vitality had made errors, but that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask it to change Mr Cs policy 
to different terms. She explained that the original terms shouldve been explained to Mr C by 
his advisor and that she didnt think Mr C had lost out because of the misinformation.
Mr C disagreed. He explained that he was now locked into a policy and he wouldve 
cancelled it had he known the new terms didnt apply to him. He would like Vitality to cover 
any increases he may have to pay between age 70 and 80 and guarantee a healthy 
wellness status for him when he reaches age 80. He also raised issues with Vitality 
removing information on his member account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Vitality has made errors here. Its clear to me that the information it 
sent Mr C in 2019 and 2020 was incorrect and caused confusion. I can understand why Mr C 
is frustrated as it appears contradicting information was given multiple times. My role here is 
to decide the impact these errors have had on Mr C, and whether Vitality has done enough 
to put things right.
Would Mr C have cancelled his policy?
Ill first address Mr Cs point that he was going to cancel his policy in 2019 but felt the terms 
he was given meant he should keep it in place. When Mr C took out this policy it was to 
provide life assurance for over £700,000. The policy is set up to be in place for the whole of 
his life and had the Wellness Optimiser added which meant Mr C had a discount applied. 
The policy allowed him to gain points from being healthy and exercising which then impacted 
his status and potential increase in premiums each year to keep the policy in place.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr C wouldve cancelled his policy in 2019. 
Theres nothing showing that hed discussed with his advisor having different protection in 
place and the policy continued to provide the benefit hed originally been sold. The difference 
that was on his annual statement was that it incorrectly said the plan premium will change up 
to Mr Cs 70th birthday. But this was an error. It was compounded by receiving terms and 
conditions after this point that said the same thing. This was because these were new terms 
for new customers. But Mr C wasnt a new customer. 
In 2020, Vitality made it clear on Mr Cs annual statement that it was an error, and that the 
plan premium adjustments would be based on his 80th birthday. I can understand that this 
error wouldve caused confusion, but Ive not seen enough to say it was likely Mr C only 
continued with his policy based on this misinformation. I can see he continued his policy 
another year whilst his complaint was ongoing. I understand hes said this was because he 
assumed Vitality would change his terms to the new terms hed been provided. But I have to 
put weight on the fact he was advised to take this policy out to address his needs. As his 
advisor felt this policy was suitable for him, I find it unlikely he was going to cancel it after 
only one year.
Should Vitality apply the new terms to Mr Cs policy?
Mr C has said that his complaint would be resolved if Vitality agreed to apply the new terms 
to his policy. And I can see that Vitality had explored a variety of solutions to try and put this 
right but it explained it wasnt possible to convert Mr Cs policy into a new one with the new 
terms. And I think this is reasonable. Mr Cs policy premiums and quote that he accepted are 
based on the terms of his policy. That is that the premiums would increase, in line with his 
wellness status, each year up to age 80. He would continue to have health checks during 
this time. The annual increase appears to be around 1% but depends on Mr Cs wellness 
status. His premiums were also calculated using an up-front discount provided by him taking 
the Wellness Optimiser.
We do see instances where businesses make administrative errors, but we wouldnt 
necessarily expect it to then be bound by incorrect information. In this case its very 
unfortunate that there were so many instances of Vitality sending out the wrong information. 
But this doesnt change the contract that Mr C has with it. From what I can see, Vitality 
continues to administer Mr Cs policy in line with the terms he agreed to. And I think this is 
reasonable. Any changes to Mr Cs policy, or if he was to take a new one, would almost 
certainly have different benefits and costs associated with it which means it wouldnt be right 
to ask Vitality to apply new terms to an older policy in this case.
I have considered the point Mr C makes that he is now locked in to this specific policy. But 
as Ive explained above I dont think he was likely to have cancelled the policy after a year 
had he not been given incorrect information. And whilst I understand he is now older and a 
new policy may cost more, he still has the policy that was sold to him by his financial advisor 
which was deemed to have met his needs in 2018. If he wanted to change the policy I think 
he couldve done this throughout the dispute as it wasnt clear that Vitality was going to 
provide him with the resolution he wanted. Compensation for Vitalitys errors
Vitality has offered Mr C £250 compensation for the errors it has made. Mr C has said he 
doesnt accept this because its such a low percentage of what hes paid for his policy. He 
has said he understands this isnt how we work out compensation but doesnt feel its 
reasonable.
When looking at whether compensation for trouble and upset is fair I have to consider the 
impact its had. Ive already concluded that I dont think this has caused Mr C financial loss 
but its clear it caused a lot of confusion, and subsequently frustration because of the 
number of times Vitality contradicted itself with incorrect information. But I do think £250 is a 
reasonable amount to compensate Mr C for this. Vitality explained in its annual statement in 
2020 that there was an error and that Mr Cs original policy terms applied. This statement 
directly said the age at which premium adjustments would stop was 80. It also directly said 
that reference to his 70th birthday was incorrect. Whilst Im aware Vitality attached 
contradicting terms to this which caused more frustration, I think it was clear that these were 
errors based on this letter. So, I think £250 for the frustration this misinformation caused is 
fair and reasonable.
Removing information from Mr Cs member account
Mr C has expressed concern that some of the incorrect information he had seen on his 
member account has been removed. Vitality said that messages wouldnt have been 
removed by it. It does appear unclear as to what happened here, however Im not sure its 
relevant. Vitality has acknowledged it had provided incorrect information and the presence or 
absence of this on Mr Cs member account doesnt change my view that Vitality has acted 
reasonably in keeping Mr Cs policy on its original terms. So, Ive not considered this point 
further.
In summary, I think its clear Vitality has made errors, but I think its offer of £250 is fair and 
reasonable and I dont think it should change the terms of Mr Cs policy.
Putting things right
Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as VitalityLife must pay Mr C £250 compensation.
My final decision
The offer Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as VitalityLife has made is fair and 
reasonable. It must follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman