DRN-4199219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed their joint account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K held a joint account that Lloyds subsequently closed following a review. Mr 
and Mrs K say this was unfair. They want the account reinstated, an apology and 
compensation.
Lloyds closed other accounts which werent jointly held by Mr and Mrs K, but this decision 
only concerns this account. Any complaints which have not already been considered by our 
service would need to be brought by the account holder for the accounts in question.
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. They concluded:
Lloyds arent under a specific obligation to disclose why they closed Mr and Mrs Ks 
account, and they gave Mr and Mrs K notice that their account would close in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.
Lloyds failed to provide our service with their reason for closing the account despite 
several requests. As a result, Lloyds failed to show they closed the account fairly.
Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs K £150 for the impact the closure had on them.
As no informal resolution was agreed following our investigators view, Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint has been given to me as an ombudsman to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. 
Lloyds arent currently obliged to tell Mr and Mrs K why they closed their joint account. 
Although having their account closed was understandably concerning for them, Im not 
awarding compensation because they dont know why.
Lloyds do have to provide our service with their reason(s). This is so I can consider whether 
their decision was an legitimate exercise of their commercial discretion, as opposed to it 
being due to an error or manifestly improper.
Under DISP 3.5 of the Dispute Resolution Rules, I have the power to require a firm to 
provide me with evidence, treat information in confidence where appropriate, and to reach a 
decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to 
provide information requested (DISP 3.5.9R (3)).
Im not satisfied Lloyds basis for not providing our service with their reasons is valid or 
means they are excluded from the provisions set out in DISP 3.5. So, in reaching my 
decision, under DISP 3.5.9R (3) Ive taken account of their failure to provide information 
which they should have provided.
Lloyds havent shown they closed Mr and Mrs Ks account for a valid reason. So, I cant fairly  
conclude the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs K experienced as a result of the closure was 
justified. Clearly they were troubled by having their account closed  hence their raising of 
this complaint.  Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation to put this matter right. I havent seen 
evidence or information which would lead me to conclude a larger sum would be 
appropriate.
Im not directing Lloyds to reopen Mr and Mrs Ks account. Lloyds clearly wanted to end their 
customer relationship with them, so requiring them to reopen the account wouldnt appear to 
be a pragmatic way forward. Ive also borne in mind that Lloyds decision might have a 
legitimate foundation, even though they havent established this to my satisfaction. So, I 
dont require them to issue an apology in this circumstance
Putting things right
Subject to Mr and Mrs K accepting my final decision, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay them 
£150 (in total) within 28 calendar days of their acceptance.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay them 
compensation according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman