DRN-4130883
The complaint
Miss W complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of 
a claim following an accident, under her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss W was involved in an accident whilst driving. Advantage dealt with her claim and 
arranged for the necessary repairs. Because of a delay with Advantages approved repairer 
Miss W arranged for an alternative garage to carry out the repair work. She says her policy 
entitles her to a courtesy car, but this wasnt provided. 
Miss W says the policy excess charge was very high. Also, that she wasnt aware this 
needed paying to the garage straight away. She says Advantage charged her £221 for 
moving address. This was in addition to £60 per month on top of her usual payment. Miss W 
says this additional payment hasnt been explained to her. When she called to speak to a 
manager, Miss W says they were always busy, and no-one called her back. 
In its complaint response Advantage told Miss W there had been some delays with its 
suppliers. It says its garage was unable to provide a courtesy car, so it suggested she get an 
estimate from a local garage to speed up the repairs. It says it will defend liability for an 
accident but in this case Miss W collided with the rear of the third-partys vehicle. This 
means she will be recorded at-fault for the accident. Advantage offered Miss W £50 
compensation for the delays she encountered. 
Advantage says the increased payment Miss W complained about was due to a failed Direct 
Debit from June 2022. It says this amount was spread across the remaining policy months. 
Advantage says the premium increased due to the risk address changing, which explains the 
payment for £221. 
Miss W didnt accept this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He didnt think Advantage had behaved fairly with respect to the 
provision of a courtesy car. Although its policy terms dont provide for a courtesy car unless 
the work is completed by an approved repairer - he didnt think it had applied this term fairly 
in these circumstances. He says Advantage should pay Miss W £150 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had shown it applied the premium increase fairly 
when Miss W moved address. He says it should refund this amount plus 8% interest. But he 
thought its explanation of the increased monthly payment was reasonable. 
Miss W accepted our investigators findings. Advantage said it intended on providing further 
information regarding the premium increase for the address change. But it didnt provide this 
information and didnt respond further. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain. 
Ive read the claim notes provided by Advantage. A record from July 2022 refers to Miss W 
having been told there would be a two-month delay in it arranging repairs - and that courtesy 
car provision would be reviewed when her car was in a garage. An earlier note, also in July, 
says Miss W had asked if she could have a courtesy car if using her own choice of garage, 
and that she was told she couldnt.  
In its submission to our service Advantage says Miss W opted to use her own choice of 
repairer about a month into the claim. It says a courtesy car can only be provided if the 
vehicle is being repaired by one of its approved repairers. As its repairer didnt carry out the 
work there was no requirement to provide one.   
Our investigator asked Miss W why she opted to use her own choice of repairer. She 
responded to say that a few weeks after making her claim she decided to visit a garage. This 
was because Advantage had yet to arrange the repairs. Miss W says the garage told her the 
car wasnt roadworthy as a bumper had gradually been dropping lower as a result of the 
accident. She called Advantage to ask if she could arrange for her own garage to carry out 
the repairs and was told she could. 
Miss W says she needed a car for work and couldnt afford to pay for taxis. So, after a month 
of Advantage telling her it would arrange the repairs, without doing so, she arranged for her 
car to be repaired at the garage shed found. She says Advantage didnt tell her it wouldnt 
provide a courtesy car when she told it she intended using the alternative garage. 
In its final complaint response Advantage told Miss W its garage was unable to provide a 
courtesy car which is why it told her to get an estimate for the repairs herself. From the claim 
notes a discussion did take place on 12 July 2022 when the issue of a courtesy car was 
mentioned. Its not clear if this happened before or after Miss W arranged for the repairs to 
be completed. 
We expect Advantage to treat its customers fairly and deal with claims effectively. Based on 
the information provided it didnt or couldnt arrange for the necessary repairs to Miss Ws 
car for around a month. It hasnt said why this was. But from its claim records there is 
reference to one garage not taking any more vehicles. The indication being Advantage was 
having difficulty finding one of its approved repairers with the capacity to carry out the work. 
A lack of capacity within Advantages network of preferred repairers isnt Miss Ws fault. She 
was told by the garage she visited, that her car wasnt roadworthy. She needed access to a 
car so that she could work. In these circumstances I think she acted reasonably to mitigate 
the delay in Advantage arranging repairs, by arranging an alternative garage to complete the 
work. 
I asked Miss W how long she was without her car. She says she doesnt have records to 
confirm this, but thinks it was for around a week whilst the repairs were carried out. 
I can see from Miss Ws policy terms that a courtesy car is provided when a vehicle is being 
repaired by Advantages nominated repairer. This didnt happen here. But this is because of 
a delay on the part of the business. Miss W was willing to use Advantages nominated 
repairer, but because of the delays she decided to use an alternative garage. This course of action was also suggested to her by Advantage. In these circumstances I think its fair that 
the business compensates Miss W for the loss of use of her car whilst it was being repaired. 
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience Miss W was caused by the delay in 
Advantage arranging the repairs, and when driving a damaged car. Miss W was able to 
source an alternative garage, but there were several weeks of delay prior to getting to this 
point. In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that Advantage should pay Miss 
W £150 compensation in addition to the £50 it has already paid.  
Ive also thought about Miss Ws comments that she was charged for changing address 
unfairly. 
The premiums an insurer charges and how it calculates the risk involved, isnt something our 
service can influence. Every insurer has its own appetite for risk and its own way of 
calculating premiums. A customers address will be a factor in any risk assessment. Some 
postcodes are deemed riskier than others. This is why Advantage says an additional 
premium was charged when Miss W told it shed moved address. 
That said I can look to see that Advantage treated Miss W fairly. By this I mean it should 
apply the same approach to calculating Miss Ws premium as it would any other customer in 
these same circumstances. 
We asked Advantage for its underwriting information to show that it had treated Miss W 
fairly. It provided some information that showed an increased premium was applied. But this 
didnt clearly show the increase in Miss Ws premium was calculated in line with Advantages 
underwriting criteria. We asked if it had more information it could provide to show the 
calculation behind the premium increase. But it didnt respond with any further information.   
As Advantage hasnt shown it increased Miss Ws premium fairly, it should refund this 
amount plus 8% simple interest, from the time this was paid until it is refunded. 
Ive considered Miss Ws concern about the increased monthly payment she had to make. 
Based on the records provided her monthly premium was increased because of a missed 
payment. Advantage has explained this outstanding amount was spread over the remaining 
months of the policy term. 
Its Miss Ws responsibility to ensure payments are provided on time. Based on what Ive 
read I dont think Advantage acted unfairly in relation to this point. 
In summary, I dont think Advantage treated Miss W fairly due to the delays in arranging 
repairs, and for the lack of a replacement vehicle. And it hasnt shown it treated her fairly 
when increasing its premium for her change of address. Because of this Advantage should 
pay Miss W £150 compensation and refund its premium increase with 8% simple interest 
added.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
pay Miss W £150 in compensation in addition to the £50 it has already paid; and
refund Miss W the additional premium it applied for the change of address plus 8% 
simple interest from the time this was paid until its refunded - If Advantage considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman