DRN-2312280
The complaint
Ms M says Provident Personal Credit Limited - trading as Satsuma - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Ms M between   
September 2018 and July 2019. A summary of Ms Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 25/09/2018 31/12/2018 6 £100.00 £31.60
Break in lending
2 16/07/2019 outstanding 12 £2,000 £332.00
Ms Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had asked Ms M to 
provide that should have prompted Satsuma to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt 
say Satsuma was wrong to have given the loans to Ms M.  
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators findings. She said she felt Satsuma should have done 
better checks given the increase in the amount she was borrowing and that she had a very 
poor credit rating. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Satsumas checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that she had a poor credit rating and, it shouldnt 
have lent to her.
There was a gap of about seven months between Ms M repaying loan 1 and borrowing 
again at loan 2. I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to view this gap as an indication that 
Ms Ms finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused her 
to take out her previous loan. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock 
ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry 
out when considering the length of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. 
So, Ms M was very early on in her lending relationship with Satsuma for both loans. Even 
though she had to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared 
affordable based on the information she declared to Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in 
the information Ms M provided at the time which would have given Satsuma cause for 
concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to have relied on what Ms M told it.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Ms M about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,517 and £1,800. Satsuma also 
checked Ms Ms normal monthly living costs. Ms M declared these to be between £573 and 
£750 a month. Satsuma says it also searched Ms Ms credit file and it has provided the 
results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court 
judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, I dont think 
there was anything that ought to have prompted Satsuma to do further checks or not to 
provide the loans to Ms M. 
Ms M has provided us with a copy of her credit report she obtained, and I see that does 
show she had some defaults and late payments. But this may not have been the same 
information that Satsuma saw on its own credit report as they can differ. And even if 
Satsuma had seen some poor credit history, that doesnt necessarily mean it would conclude 
that it shouldnt have lent to Ms M bearing in mind the nature of this type of non-mainstream 
short-term lending. 
The information Ms M declared to Satsuma at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew about    
Ms M, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Ms M gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Satsuma has done something wrong in lending Ms M these 
loans.
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms M, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman