DRN-3042434
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to be as follows.
Mr R has said that he saw a sofa he was interested in buying, Mr R exchanged messages 
with the furniture company, had conversations with them and also visited the furniture 
companys warehouse to view the sofa.
Having seen the sofa, he was interested in buying, Mr R discussed purchasing the sofa and 
having agreed a price, he received an invoice from the company. Following this, on 31 
March 2020, he went ahead and made a payment for £1,909.30, via mobile banking, for the 
purchase of two sofas.
Mr R has said the company had a large social media following, featured in newspapers and 
had positive scores on online review platforms, along with celebrity endorsements.
Towards the middle of August 2020, Mr R received confirmation that his order had entered 
production and would be ready in 7-10 days, and that he would receive a message 48 hours 
prior to delivery. When Mr R didnt receive a text, he contacted the furniture company again 
and over the next couple of weeks received a number of emails providing different reasons 
for delays, including delays due to the pandemic and the factory being shut due to electrical 
issues.
Mr R contacted Barclays on 25 August 2020, as he wanted to dispute the transaction he had 
made, however as it was a funds transfer the claim couldnt be processed. Mr R contacted 
Barclays again the following day and explained that he didnt want to proceed with the claim 
at that stage, as he was still in contact with the company.
When Mr R still hadnt received his sofas he contacted Barclays again, on 3 September 
2020, when a scam claim was raised. Barclays looked into things and initially responded to 
Mr R, in November 2020, declining his claim as it did not believe he had taken sufficient 
steps to satisfy himself that the person/business he was paying was legitimate. It added that 
it had made Mr R aware of the risks and provided relevant warnings.
Barclays then looked into things again and issued its final response on 18 December 2020, 
not upholding Mr Rs complaint. It said that it had contacted the beneficiary bank, but no 
funds remained. Barclays said from the evidence provided this matter was a buyer/seller 
dispute and considered it to be a civil matter. It said, as Mr R authorised the transaction, 
there was no further action it could take on Mr Rs behalf.
Mr R then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Mr R and the seller. In summary, she said this because; the company Mr R paid 
appeared to be a legitimate business, which had provided a number of customers with 
furniture that it had committed to and the seller was detailed on Companies House.
Overall, our investigator said she couldnt safely say that the furniture company set out with 
the intent to defraud Mr R. She didnt think there was anything about the payment Mr R 
made that ought to have caused Barclays concern that Mr R may have been at risk of 
financial harm. Our investigator also considered whether there was any other form of 
protection for the type of payment Mr R made, but she didnt think there was.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he didnt agree that this wasnt 
a scam. Mr R maintained that the company had no intention of supplying the goods.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about Barclays actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Barclays should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr R, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned. Its understandable having lost such a significant 
sum why Mr R feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which 
Barclays has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr R made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr R made and, in particular, whether Barclays ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mr R made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Mr R strongly disagrees. He feels the seller 
set out with the intention to scam him.
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate business failing 
and not being able to honour its customers orders as a result of going into liquidation.
Its clear the agreement Mr R entered into with the company did not go as planned and he 
has not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in 
terms of how the company was operated. But I cant safely say with any certainty, that the 
company set out with an intent to defraud.
The company Mr R paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in 
2018 and whose principle activity was the manufacturing of soft furnishings and the retail of 
furniture. And Im mindful that it appears the company had a large following, with many 
reviews indicating other customers had orders successfully completed.
I understand that this company was bought to the attention of Trading Standards, but Im not 
aware of the outcome of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other 
authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. Based on 
what Ive seen, while I cant rule out there may have been some questionable sales tactics, 
Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud.
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that has fallen into liquidation and 
subsequently been unable to meet its obligations to its customers. So, on balance, taking 
into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Mr R  has 
been a victim of a scam or that the company he made his payments to was operating 
fraudulently.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Barclays 
to refund the money Mr R has lost, as I dont think Barclays treated Mr R unfairly when it 
decided not to refund him. And I dont think there was anything else Barclays could have 
done to prevent his loss.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr R. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr R has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 Stephen Wise
Ombudsman