DRN-3465628
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Unum Ltd didnt accept a further linked benefit claim on his income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mr S had a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This would pay a benefit if Mr S was unable to work due to illness or injury for a 
deferred (waiting) period of 13 weeks.
Mr S made a claim which Unum accepted from 2014 to 2017, when he returned to work on a 
gradual phased return.
Mr S worked six hours per day throughout 2017 and 2018 and asked Unum to pay benefit 
for the hours he was unable to work. But Unum said there was insufficient evidence of 
incapacity and declined to pay any further benefit.
Unhappy, Mr S brought a complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Unum had unfairly declined to pay any further benefit. Mr S 
disagreed and asked for a further review. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
I should start by saying my decision is limited to the period after Mr S returned to work in 
2017. I will not revisit anything related to the initial claim as he has already received a final 
decision from this Service about his first complaint. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm the definition of incapacity as follows:
unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation.
The policy also confirms when proportionate benefit will be paid:
Benefit may be paid in respect of a member who, although incapacitated, is working 
in their normal occupation on a reduced basis, or working in a different and less well 
paid occupation.
In order to be eligible for proportionate benefit, Mr S must show, through medical evidence, 
that he is incapacitated.
The policy terms allow linked benefit claims if a member returns to work following absence 
due to incapacity. But then suffers further periods of incapacity. This has to occur within 52 
weeks of returning to work from the previous incapacity. 
Ive reviewed the key medical evidence which Unum obtained and reviewed. 
The key medical evidence
February 2018  Mr S saw his GP and said his employer had agreed to allow him to work six 
hours per day for five days a week. The GP issued a fit note for anxiety and depression to 
confirm Mr S may be fit to work reduced hours.
March 2018  Mr S saw his consultant psychiatrist who confirmed Mr S was working part 
time and building up to full time commitments.
August 2018  Mr S spoke to his GP and said his employer was happy for him to work part 
time but asked for his fit note to be extended. The GP extended the fit note until November 
2018. 
February 2019  Mr S saw his GP and said he didnt feel ready to do full time hours.
May 2019  Mr S saw his GP again and confirmed he was still working six hours per day.
Throughout 2018 and 2019 Mr S also had gastrointestinal symptoms and investigations and 
was prescribed antibiotics. By May 2019 he was discharged as there wasnt much more that 
could be done for his symptoms.
Unum said Mr S consultant psychiatrist had suggested a phased return to work plan of 4-6 
weeks beginning in August 2017. Unum paid benefit to Mr S until the end of September 
2017. It said there was no evidence that Mr S wasnt able to achieve full time hours in line 
with the consultant psychiatrists recommendations. And there was no evidence of any 
deterioration in his symptoms or any record of restrictions of limitations that would have 
impacted his return to full time hours.
Having reviewed the medical evidence outlined above, I dont think Unum unreasonably 
declined to pay further benefit. There is insufficient medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr 
S was incapacitated after September 2017. The medical evidence shows Mr S was 
undergoing investigations for gastrointestinal symptoms but there is no evidence that he was 
advised not to work or that he should only work part time as a result.
In relation to his diagnosis of anxiety and depression, Mr S was at work for six hours per 
day. His GP notes record that he told his GP his employer had agreed he could work part 
time rather than any medical specialists confirming that Mr S wouldnt be able to work full 
time. The evidence shows Mr S told the GP he wasnt ready to work full time but I havent 
seen any objective medical evidence from his consultant psychiatrist that he should continue 
working part time. I would expect clear reasons and an explanation about why working six 
hours per day was the maximum Mr S could work as a result of his illness. The GP fit notes are based on Mr S own self reporting and his choice and agreement with his employer to 
work six hours per day. 
Based on the above, I dont think Mr S has demonstrated that he meets the definition of 
incapacity and so I dont think Unum has declined Mr Ss claim unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman