DRN-2965233
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) have unfairly increased the 
premiums on his pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr K took out a lifetime pet policy with Agria in 2016 to cover his dog. His initial premium 
was £579.60 per year and he has renewed the policy annually and paid an increased 
premium until 2021 when he was quoted £1495.47. He didnt renew in 2021 as he was 
unhappy with the price quoted for the coming year, he also said he was unhappy with the 
way premiums had been calculated previously. 
Agria looked into Mr Ks concerns and wrote to him on 29 January 2021. They said they felt 
Mr Ks premiums had been calculated and applied appropriately and competitively and they 
were satisfied Mr K had been treated fairly.
Mr K referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator felt Agria had shown they had 
treated Mr K fairly when calculating his premiums. He also said he felt Agria had provided 
information about premium increases being a possibility, but he didnt think they had given 
clear information about the long-term cost of the policy. And as Mr K wasnt aware of how 
significant the cost could be over time, and due to the lack of clear information about this, he 
said Agria should pay £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
In response to the investigators opinion Mr K said comments made by Agria in relation to 
being competitive werent true as he has found a cheaper policy elsewhere. But he had no 
further comments in relation to the outcome reached. 
Agria said they believe Mr K was aware the premium would increase each year as he had 
received a renewal invitation prior to the renewal date giving Mr K an opportunity to make 
comparisons. They also said they werent aware how prices would increase over the years 
or to what extent and they believe Mr K had received good value for money when comparing 
premiums he paid against claims they have settled on the policy, so they dont believe 
compensation for inconvenience or upset is due. They asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for me to tell a business what they should charge for the cover they provide. 
Insurance premiums are calculated taking account of a number of different factors and they 
are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. I would, in 
effect, be determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. 
So, I cant say the cost of Mr Ks policy was too high or he should have been charged less 
for the policy. But I can consider whether he was treated fairly
Mr Ks premiums did increase significantly as time went on. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Agria treated Mr K any differently to how it would have treated other 
policy holders in the same position.
Ive thought about the information provided to Mr K, taking account that Agria should have 
provided enough information to enable him to make an informed decision when purchasing 
the policy. And that any information given should have been clear, fair and not misleading.
I dont have details of how the policy was sold or what information Mr K was given before he 
purchased the policy. But from what I can see, and based on Agrias comments, I think its 
unlikely he was given enough information to fully understand how much the policy might 
increase.
The policy says:
If we offer to renew  your policy  we may change  your premium,  policy  terms,  and conditions,  
policy  excesses  and the monetary  amount  of cover  under  any section.
Although this term allows Agria to make changes to the policy, I dont think this makes the 
possible long-term costs with taking out this sort of policy clear. Especially in relation to the 
implications of the dog getting older and the impact of increases in the average claim 
amount and the number of claims received. And even if it was enough, this information 
should be brought to Mr Ks attention rather than only being detailed within the policy 
documentation.
Its not unusual for premiums to increase each year particularly with pet insurance. This is 
because as a pet gets older the more chance there is of medical treatment being required 
and therefore the cost of this increasing. Essentially it means there is more risk of a claim 
being made.
Mr K took out a lifetime policy meaning any conditions claimed for after the inception of the 
policy, that wasnt pre-existing, will continue to be covered as long as the premiums continue 
to be paid and the policy renews. This is unlike other types of pet insurance policies that will 
only cover a condition for a limited time. Due to the nature of these policies cover can be 
expensive and costs are more likely to increase significantly year on year.
Mr K decided not to renew his policy for cover 2021-2022. He says he was unhappy with the 
premium quoted and that it had continued to increase the past few years. He also said he 
had found cheaper cover elsewhere. Upon first purchase, policies tend to be cheaper as 
they often provide a discount for cover and often exclude things like pre-existing conditions 
and exclusion periods. So, it isnt surprising he has found a cheaper option. But that doesnt 
in itself mean Agria have treated him unfairly, and as I have already said, I havent seen 
anything to suggest Agria have treated Mr K unfairly when calculating his premiums.
In response to the investigators opinion Agria said Mr K was aware the premiums would 
increase each year as they had sent renewal notices advising of the renewal cost before the 
policy was due to renew and that they had discussed renewal with Mr K and offered cheaper 
options where they could. They also said they werent aware how prices would increase over 
the years or to what extent. 
However, whilst I wouldnt expect Agria to know the exact detail of what increases there 
might be, as the policy is a lifetime policy, policy holders reasonably expect to keep the 
policy for the lifetime of their pet and thats what these policies are designed for. Given this, 
Agria should have given clearer information about what might happen over the life of the 
policy.The sort of information about the long-term costs and limitations I would have expected to be 
given to Mr K before he bought the policy would include:
its very likely the premium will increase each year at renewal as the pet gets older and 
vets fees go up;
if the increases arent capped theres no limit on how much the premiums might go up;
it might also increase due to other factors such as changes in insurance premium tax or 
increased understanding of the likelihood of a particular breed of animal needing to make 
a claim;
if a claim is made, the premium could increase significantly at the next renewal;
if the policy isn't renewed, the cover will end, and it might be difficult to find a new 
provider that will cover any health problems or medical conditions the pet has already 
had.
Id have expected Agria to have given Mr K enough information to understand the potential 
long-term costs of a policy that might run for years. I dont think the information he received 
about his policy is likely to have been enough to provide him with a clear understanding of 
what he could expect to happen in relation to the premiums he might have to pay, meaning 
he might find himself in the position hes now in.
If they had given clearer information about the likely significant increases, he wouldnt have 
been surprised this happened and therefore he wouldnt have been caused the upset he 
has. He would also have been aware that one day he may be in a position where he couldnt 
afford to carry on with the policy. Without any awareness of that, it would come as a shock to 
him.
I appreciate Agria feel they provided enough information to Mr K but for the reasons Ive 
explained I think they could have done more.
If Agria had provided this information I think its likely Mr K would have still purchased the 
policy. I say this because he was clearly looking for a more comprehensive cover like the 
lifetime cover he took out. However, I think Mr K has experienced some distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the lack of clear information about the long-term cost 
implications of this type of policy.
Ive considered that Mr K had made successful claims on the policy and had benefitted from 
the cover. However, he had been with Agria for some time and his dog also has a pre-
existing condition which can make it harder to find adequate cover elsewhere. Taking 
account of this and the impact on Mr K I think, £400 is fair and reasonable to recognise the 
upset Mr K experienced.   
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria 
(publ) to pay Mr K £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman