DRN-1978232
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim made under her 
legal expenses cover. 
Reference to Amtrust includes agents acting on its behalf.
 
What happened
In the autumn of 2019, Miss S and her partner were sent a warning notice by their local 
authority as their daughter hadnt been attending school. The warning asked for an 
immediate improvement in attendance otherwise action could be taken, which could include 
a fixed penalty notice, prosecution resulting in a fine or imprisonment. 
Miss S made a claim under the legal expenses cover provided within her home insurance. 
Initially the claim was declined as the insurer believed the legal defence cover only related to 
employment. However, Miss S appealed pointing out the clause didnt mention employment. 
She also believed the local authority could be considered a regulatory body, which the policy 
does cover disputes with. Amtrust obtained an opinion on whether a local authority could be 
considered a regulatory body and the lawyer considered it could be, but Amtrust still didnt 
believe cover was provided as a probable outcome was a fixed penalty notice, for which 
there was an exclusion under the cover.
Miss S complained about the declined claim but Amtrust stood by its decision to decline it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied Amtrust had fairly declined 
the claim. She concluded a formal investigation hadnt been conducted and that, in any 
event, given the guide for prosecution a likely outcome was a fixed penalty notice, which was 
excluded. 
Miss S has asked for matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she argued that 
a formal investigation has been conducted as her daughters non-attendance was referred to 
Pupil Entitlement: Investigation (PEI) and the result was the warning notice. She also argued 
that prosecutions and imprisonment for parents is increasing and so a fixed penalty notice is 
by no means the likely result of this action. 
The case was referred to me for a decision. Upon reviewing the file, I had noted the previous 
debate over whether the local authority could be considered a regulatory body. I queried this 
further with Amtrust who confirmed its belief that although it carries out regulatory functions, 
strictly speaking it didnt think a local authority was a regulatory body. 
I issued my provisional findings on 23 June 2020, explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
this complaint. In short, I concluded that the local authority didnt comfortably fit within the 
ordinary, everyday definition of a regulatory body, so there didnt appear to be cover in the 
first place (meaning the penalty-notice exclusion was immaterial). Amtrust confirmed it had 
nothing further to add. Miss S didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, she has 
said:  
Local Authorities provide regulatory functions, and have responsibility for a number of 
these, such as planning, licensing and food safety. 
Local Authorities bring prosecutions in a number of areas and, with the Health and 
Safety Executive, are responsible for the health and safety in Great Britain by 
enforcing existing legislation. 
She disagrees the county council werent acting as a regulatory body; she considers 
by enforcing the Education Act 1996 she was being regulated by the Local Authority. 
The term is ambiguous and should be read in her favour. 
She disagrees the term applies to a limited group of persons or activities. 
Local Authorities have statutory authority to perform their duties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the additional points raised by Miss S. Having done so, they 
have not altered the outcome reached in my provisional findings. I therefore make my 
provisional findings final and will respond to her points accordingly. For completeness, I shall 
begin by repeating the key findings in my provisional decision. 
The starting point with any complaint about a declined claim is the contract between the 
parties  the terms and conditions of the policy. Miss Ss policy provides cover for (amongst 
other things):
6. Legal Defence
What is insured:
Costs
b) to defend your legal rights:
i) In a formal investigation or disciplinary hearing brought against you by any trade 
association or professional or regulatory body.
ii) in a dispute over something left to you in a will. 
Under General Exclusions, the policy says:
3. There is no cover for any claim arising from or relating to:
b) Fines, penalties or compensation. 
I agree with Miss S that, although a fixed penalty notice or fine can be the result of the local 
authority warning notice, it is by no means the most likely outcome. It is also possible for a 
parent to be imprisoned. In circumstances when it isnt clear from the outset what the result 
might be, I dont think would be fair for the aforementioned general exclusion to apply. But I 
dont need to make a firm finding about that.
Thats because I dont find that the claim Miss S is making is covered under the terms of the 
policy. The only part of the legal expenses cover that could be applicable to Miss S is section 
6, set out above. Miss S made her claim as a result of a local authority warning notice. So 
section 6 b) ii) isnt applicable. That means Miss S will only potentially have cover under the 
policy (subject to the remaining terms and conditions), if the warning notice has been sent by 
a trade association, professional or regulatory body. There is no dispute that a local authority isnt a trade association or professional body. So 
the question I need to consider is whether a local authority is a regulatory body. 
I understand the point Miss S makes about local authorities. And I accept that they do carry 
out some regulatory functions  for example, at a local level they can grant licenses, conduct 
inspections and take other such actions (as set out by the National Audit Office). But I think 
that is far from saying a local authority is itself a regulatory body. When carrying out such 
functions it is usually as a result of delegated authority from another body or where it has 
been legislated for. 
Regulatory body isnt a defined term within the policy. That means it gets its everyday 
ordinary meaning, in the context of the insurance being provided  i.e. a person or 
organisation appointed to regulate a limited class of persons or activities, such as banking, 
or energy, amongst others. And this context can be drawn from the other bodies that appear 
in the clause: trade associations and professional bodies.  A trade association is generally 
accepted as an organisation founded and funded by businesses which operate in a specific 
industry  for example ABTA  the Association of British Travel Agents. A professional body 
is generally accepted as a non-profit organisation seeking to further and self-regulate a 
particular profession  for example, the Association of British Insurers. Im satisfied from this, 
that the clause is intended to cover those persons who belong to a trade association, 
professional body or who are subject to regulation. 
Miss S disagreed with the provisional findings that Ive just reiterated. She doesnt believe 
the term applies to a limited class of person or activity. Ive already explained above why Im 
satisfied it does and there is a legal principle in support of this contractual interpretation: 
ejusdem generis  meaning of or as the same kind. In other words, if its argued that the 
meaning of a word or phrase in a contract term is unclear, clarification can often be found in 
the overall context of other listed things. Trade associations and professional bodies cover 
the conduct and/or regulation of a limited class of person or activity and so Im satisfied, 
given this is in the same clause/list, that this also applies to regulatory body. In my view, the 
term/clause is not unclear and is not drafted in language that isnt plain or intelligible  so I 
dont think it needs to be stretched and given a meaning that favours Miss S on the basis 
that she didnt draft it. (Ive considered the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and/or the contra 
proferentem rule of law but do not think they alter the outcome for a contract term that is 
objectively clear enough and fair.)
I accept that a local authority can and does carry out regulatory functions, so I agree with 
Miss Ss further arguments about that. But I remain unpersuaded that what it was doing here 
was as a regulatory body; it wasnt regulating the school when issuing the warning notice. 
Nor was it regulating Miss S, contrary to her submissions. Whilst a local authority has 
general governing duties over, and in relation to, people living within its area it doesnt 
regulate them  members of the public arent regulated under a regulatory body. A local 
authority is just a second or third tier of government. They regulate all of us and all aspects 
of life, not a limited class of persons or activities, which the term regulatory body more 
naturally suggests.  
When sending Miss S the warning notice, it was enforcing the requirement under the 
Education Act 1996 for a parent to ensure every child of compulsory school age receives 
efficient full-time education (s7). Im not persuaded that it was acting as a regulatory body 
when doing so. Not without, as I said before, stretching the natural interpretation of the term 
beyond that which it can reasonably bear. 
I have considered Miss Ss further submissions carefully. But I find she doesnt have cover 
under the policy for the event she is claiming for. Im satisfied the clause relating to legal defence is only applicable to those parties who are subject to regulation by a regulatory 
body as understood in ordinary, everyday language, such as the Financial Conduct 
Authority, General Medical Council or some such other regulatory body. As that isnt 
applicable to Miss S, Im not persuaded Amtrust has declined the claim unfairly. 
So, whilst I sympathise with Miss S, she has not produced persuasive new evidence or 
arguments in response to my provisional decision to show that I made a mistake of fact or 
law  or otherwise reached an outcome that was inherently unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and before, Im not persuaded Amtrust acted unfairly, 
unreasonably or contrary to the terms and conditions of the policy, I therefore dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman