DRN-3495000
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him for money he lost in 
an investment scam.
What happened
Mr O connected with company F on social media. Hes provided us with a document 
showing the messages he exchanged with F and I can see he registered with them and 
then initially used a genuine cryptocurrency firm to make his first payment. This was done 
in early April 2019 and then at the end of April 2019 I can see a small sum is returned to 
Mr O from the cryptocurrency firm.
The next evidence weve seen of Mr O transferring money to F is in August 2019. At this 
time he believes hes been trading with F for several months and has a large balance in 
his trading account. He wants to withdraw some funds and so F sets out he needs to pay 
certain taxes and a percentage of the amount to action the withdrawal. Mr O made these 
payments and sent just under £25,000 over four payments between early August and mid-
September. He didnt then receive any funds and F stopped corresponding with him.
Mr O contacted HSBC and said hed been the victim of a scam. HSBC didnt agree to 
refund the payments. It said Mr O had authorised them and it had acted on his 
instructions. Mr O disagreed and came to our service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint and suggested HSBC should refund him the payments hed made from August 
onwards. HSBC disagreed with our outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Os complaint in early May 2022. I said I intended to 
partially uphold it and for HSBC to refund Mr O 50% of what hed paid towards the scam 
from August onwards. My findings were as follows:
I have looked at the conversations Mr O had with F. I can see in this chat he sends an 
article to F which hes found on a reputable website. This sets out serious concerns with 
F and suggests it is a scam. The comments on this article also support this as they are 
written by people who are saying they have been scammed. The chat isnt dated, but I 
have been able to establish that Mr O found this website prior to June 2019, as in the 
chat after he shares the article, he says hes away for a week and gives a return date. 
So Mr O was on notice that F was possibly a scam after he started investing with it, but 
before he attempted the withdrawal and sent the larger payments.
I can see Mr O questioned F about the article and it responded with an explanation. 
But I dont find Fs justification of the article convincing. For example it told Mr O that 
the IP addresses of the comments were all the same, as they were written by a 
competitor, so thats why they left negative reviews. But I cant see that IP addresses 
are shown on the comments. And even if that was true, it doesnt explain the content of 
the article written by a reputable website. So it doesnt feel like this shouldve satisfied 
Mr O his money was safe.
On that basis I dont agree a full refund is the right outcome in this case. However, 
I do consider HSBC has some responsibility for the losses too.
While we dont know exactly what happened in branch when Mr O sent the first 
payment, it doesnt appear HSBC intervened on the first or second larger payments, 
only the third one. I understand Mr O had previously sent two large payments to an 
investment firm, so while maybe this first payment may not have trigged an automatic 
alert if it was done online, it wasnt. He was in branch and already speaking to a cashier, 
so the opportunity was there for them to question Mr O about why he was sending over 
£6,500 to a new, international payee. And I think it wouldve been reasonable to ask this 
question.
I cant see that Mr O wouldve had any reason to lie to the cashier. While I dont agree 
he shouldve been satisfied by Fs explanation, its clear he was. And it was now four 
months later, and he was at the point of trying to withdraw his funds. The cashier didnt 
have to have any knowledge this was or could be a scam to ask Mr O why he was 
sending the money. And I can see the notes for the payment say that its for 
commission on a trading account. So when he gave that as his answer, they then ought 
to have known that it was common practice for scam investment firms to charge high 
fees and fake taxes; and so questioned him more. And also have given him a scam 
warning.
Considering Mr O had seen the article about this being a scam, I think he wouldve 
been very concerned by the cashiers comments and warning. While he was satisfied 
by Fs explanation, what the cashier said would then add weight to the fact that it could 
be a scam. Mr O also wasnt paying an account linked in any obvious way to F, and I 
think he wouldve shared the name of the firm he was paying and again this shouldve 
prompted concern from the cashier. And so Mr O wouldve then done more research 
into F and also into what he should have to pay if he wanted to withdraw from an 
investment. And this wouldve stopped him making the large payments in August and 
September, as hed have established hed been the victim of a scam.
Im aware that HSBC did contact Mr O about the third payment he sent, but it hasnt 
been able to provide a call recording or transcript for what was discussed. I have to 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And I do think that 
Mr O wouldve been honest about what he was doing and why, if he was asked. 
Especially because this was his third payment, so he seemingly felt confident in the 
process F was asking him to follow. And Mr O has sent us the correspondence he had 
with F around the payments and it hasnt directed him to be dishonest with his bank. So 
I cant say, without evidence to the contrary, HSBC did ask enough or probing 
questions when it contacted Mr O regarding the third payment, so that this limits 
HSBCs liability.
To uphold Mr Os complaint I have to be satisfied that HSBC didnt do enough to 
protect him regarding the payments and that if it had intervened, it couldve unravelled 
the scam. And I think that is the case here from the payment on 1 August 2019. 
However, while I consider HSBC did fail in its duty, I cant overlook the fact that Mr O 
had already seen an article suggesting this was a scam and had still gone ahead. So I 
think both parties should bear equal responsibility for the losses.
Im intending to decide that HSBC should cover 50% of what Mr O sent between August 
and September 2019 (as per his statements) plus transactions fees  £12,270.75. And 
for HSBC to award 8% simple interest on the first, third and fourth payments. This 
should be calculated from when the required 50% of each of the payments was made 
by Mr O, until the reimbursement is received. As the second payment was sent from a savings account, Mr O should receive the applicable interest rate on the required 50% 
of this payment from when it was made, until the reimbursement is received.
Both HSBC and Mr O disagreed with my provisional findings.
Mr O said I had not considered the level of his vulnerability at the time of his victimisation. 
And he said he trusted the explanation F gave him, as he didnt know what it should have 
done to the bad reviews if they werent true. He said HSBC didnt carry out due diligence 
and if it had, he wouldve explained what he was doing and the scam unravelled before he 
made the large payments. His response contained a number of points made by our 
investigator when they upheld his complaint in full. He asked again for a full refund.
HSBC argued the opposite and said Mr O was both careless and grossly negligent, as he 
had the article and an unconvincing response from the scammer on it, but went ahead. 
And it picked out later in Mr Os chat conversation with the scammer, where he questioned 
the tax he was being asked to pay, and said he would speak with his accountant. It said 
that he seemingly didnt do this, as he did pay the tax asked, but he should have had this 
conversation. And this wouldve unravelled the scam and prevented his losses, so it asked 
me to reduce what I was asking it to pay. So the case has been returned to me to review 
and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed both parties further submissions in detail. However, neither party has 
persuaded me to change my provisional outcome. In this case there isnt a clear party that is 
entirely at fault, both parties have made errors and contributed. And so I consider the fair 
outcome is still for liability to be equally shared between both parties. 
I accept that Mr O may have had vulnerabilities that made him more susceptible to this type 
of scam. But I dont agree it would be fair to say that this then meant he has to take no 
responsibility for what happened. Mr O had the ability to find the website where the negative 
article and reviews were posted, so he could have enquired with the author, for example, 
about the article and the comments on it. It seems unlikely that any party running a scam 
would admit to this when questioned, so I think Mr O shouldve looked to another party, such 
as the website provider, to satisfy himself. And I do accept hes mentioned an accountant, so 
again this was another party he could have spoken to in order to verify Fs actions and 
whether they were legitimate.
I had access to the investigators findings when I issued my provisional decision and didnt 
agree with them. So Mr O quoting a version of this in response to my provisional decision 
hasnt changed my outcome.However, I also dont agree with HSBC that the above issues with Mr Os actions means a 
50% reduction is too little. It has said it considers Mr O careless in relation to making the 
payment after he found the article and that his chat shows he was not convinced by the 
answer the scammer gave. However I cant agree, Mr O says I am relived in relation to Fs 
answer when he questions it. So he seems very convinced as otherwise I cant see why he 
would have relief if he still had doubts.
HSBC has then picked up on a later exchange on the chat specifically in relation to tax. 
HSBC says it was reckless of Mr O to make the payments without speaking to his 
accountant and it doubts F gave a plausible explanation for the tax. However this is purely 
speculative from HSBC, at this point its not possible to know exactly what F said and how 
persuasive it was for Mr O, as its understood this conversation was done over the phone. 
But even if I was to accept HSBCs stance, I consider this argument then undermines 
another point HSBC has raised. 
HSBC has said that its cashiers had a lack of investment experience, so it doesnt consider 
they couldve unravelled the scam with any questions. But, as per my provisional findings, I 
dont agree. And I think HSBC has, in its own argument, supported the fact they could have 
stopped Mr O, considering it says F cant have given a plausible explanation for the tax. This 
suggests Mr O wouldve had shared an implausible explanation with the cashier. And while I 
accept they wouldnt have extensive knowledge or experience in this area, as an employee 
of the bank in 2019, I expect them to have enough knowledge to spot when something isnt 
right. Especially considering the general information they shouldve had on different types of 
fraud and investment scams. 
I dont agree Mr O was recklessly going ahead with the payments, but I accept he shouldve 
had some unanswered questions and some concerns with F. I dont know if he wouldve had 
an implausible story to tell. But I dont consider investment knowledge was required by the 
cashier to unravel the scam and stop Mr O making the payment. I consider there wouldve 
been enough in his testimony regardless. Im appointing half the responsibility for this loss to 
Mr O as there were some red flags about what was going on. But it follows that the cashier 
then didnt need specialist knowledge  because a simple conversation around what Mr O 
was doing and why shouldve highlighted these flags and heightened Mr Os doubts, 
stopping him making the payment there and then. I think a conversation wouldve brought up 
both the article and the tax issue. And I consider it most likely this wouldve made Mr O go 
away and do more research  or possibly speak to his accountant. And had he done so; he 
wouldnt have then gone on to make any of the August or September payments. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should reimburse 50% of what Mr O sent to the scam with F between 
August and September 2019 (as per his statements) plus transactions fees  £12,270.75. 
HSBC should award 8% simple interest on the first, third and fourth payments. This should 
be calculated from when the required 50% of each of the payments was made by Mr O, 
until the reimbursement is received. As the second payment was sent from a savings 
account, Mr O should receive the applicable interest rate on the required 50% of this 
payment from when it was made, until the reimbursement is received.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Os complaint against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman