DRN-3223827
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society declined her request for a removal of 
borrower from a mortgage account that she held jointly with her brother. Because the 
application was declined, Miss M and her brother had to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC), which Miss M wants Nationwide to reimburse. Miss M is also unhappy at the level of 
service she received from Nationwide.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint have been set out in detail in the correspondence 
between the parties, and in our investigators letter dated 7 December 2021, so there is no 
need for me to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, and so its important 
that I dont include any information which might lead to Miss M being identified. 
Briefly, Miss M and her brother had a mortgage in their joint names, taken out in 2016. The 
mortgage was over a term of 30 years for an initial amount of £170,000 on a capital 
repayment basis. The first five years of the mortgage were at a fixed rate of interest. If the 
mortgage was repaid during that period, an ERC would be payable.
In 2020 Miss Ms brother wanted to buy a property in his sole name and take advantage of 
the Stamp Duty holiday which was due to end on 30 September 2021. In July 2020 Miss M 
enquired with Nationwide about a transfer of the mortgage into her sole name. A fee of £125 
was paid for the application. The initial affordability check showed that Nationwide would 
only lend Miss M £88,000, against an account balance which by that point stood at 
approximately £116,000.
After further details were taken, Nationwide carried out a full affordability check in 
mid-August 2020 and said it would only lend a maximum of £99,300, based on Miss Ms 
salary of £22,100. The application disclosed no savings, no other occupants of the property, 
nor any other source of income. 
Miss M offered to make a lump sum payment to reduce the mortgage balance down to 
£99,300. The source of the funds to do this was not specified. Miss M also confirmed that 
she alone was paying the mortgage. However, after Nationwide reviewed Miss Ms finances, 
it was noted that she was receiving payments each month from her brother and from a 
lodger. Nationwide wasnt able to accept lodger income as part of the affordability 
assessment. 
Nationwide said that if Miss M could evidence payment of the mortgage for three months 
without any additional support from her brother or the lodger, it would consider the 
application. But because Miss Ms brother needed to purchase before 30 September 2021 in 
order to take advantage of the Stamp Duty holiday, Miss M decided instead to re-mortgage 
to a new lender. As a result, she and her brother incurred an ERC of £1,147.20, as well as 
Miss M having to pay the cost of taking out her new mortgage. 
Miss M complained to Nationwide, not only about the decline of the application but about the 
service shed received. Nationwide accepted its service could have been better, and 
explained that its timescales had been affected by Covid. Nationwide offered compensation 
of £175 for this. But Nationwide stood by its decision to decline the application.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Miss M brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. 
The investigator noted that the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR) allowed lenders to 
dispense with an affordability assessment in certain circumstances where existing borrowers 
wanted to make changes to their mortgage. But because the application was to remove one 
of the borrowers, the investigator was satisfied it was reasonable for Nationwide to carry out 
an affordability assessment. 
The investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly in declining the application, and 
also thought Nationwide had given Miss M an opportunity to proceed with the application by 
paying the mortgage herself without third party support for three months. In the 
circumstances, he didnt think this part of the complaint should be upheld.
The investigator agreed that Nationwides customer service could have been better, but 
thought the £175 was fair and reasonable for this.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. No further evidence or arguments have been provided, either by Miss M or by 
Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
Although the regulatory changes introduced as a result of the MMR allow Nationwide to 
waive affordability assessments, there is no obligation for Nationwide to do so. Im satisfied 
that, in the circumstances of this case, it was reasonable for Nationwide to carry out an 
affordability assessment where there was a request to remove one of the joint borrowers 
from the mortgage.
Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and its explained that it doesnt include 
payments made by a lodger as part of a borrowers income for the purposes of calculating 
affordability. Thats a decision Im satisfied Nationwide is reasonable entitled to make.
I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to say that it would reconsider the application if 
Miss M was able to show that she was able to afford the mortgage for three months without 
additional support from her brother and without the income from the lodger. 
However, I find that, even if Nationwide had been able to deal with the application within a 
couple of weeks, I dont think the outcome would have been any different. I say this because 
Nationwide would still have wanted Miss M to demonstrate that shed be able to afford the 
mortgage by herself for three months before considering the application. But Miss Ms 
brother wanted to take advantage of the Stamp Duty holiday, which was due to end on 
30 September 2020. So even if Nationwide had been able to act more quickly, Miss M and her brother would still 
have had the choice of either waiting the three months and then seeing if the application 
would be agreed  and if it was, thered be no ERC  or re-mortgaging to a new lender, 
paying the ERC and avoiding Stamp Duty on Miss Ms brothers purchase. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think that the reason the ERC was incurred was due to 
Nationwides delays. I am also satisfied that it was reasonable for Nationwide to assess 
affordability, taking into account Miss Ms situation. 
I am glad to note that Nationwide has acknowledged that it could have dealt with the 
application in a more timely manner. Nationwide has explained that Covid-related issues 
affected its timescales, and its offered £175 compensation for this. I think this is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the delays involved. But, for the reasons given above, I can 
see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order Nationwide to reimburse the 
ERC or to pay any other compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Miss M to decide if 
she wants to accept the £175 offered by Nationwide Building Society in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman