The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss M acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss M responsible for keeping the car in
good repair and condition. She would be responsible for any damage to or
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection
report completed at handover. The investigator has set out the standard required
under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with his assessment, that each area
of damage is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear as there are signs
of contamination and preparation marks.
I dont think PSA were wrong to ask for the repair invoice as they would have wanted
to see if the repairs were completed by an approved repair shop. That may have led
them to waive the charges but, as the repairer wasnt authorised, I dont think PSA
were unreasonable to insist the charges still applied.
PSA didnt have to complete the repair work they were charging Miss M for. The
BVRLA guidance says, Charges can still be applied at end of lease in cases where
the leasing company decides for commercial reasons not to repair the damage.
So, PSA were free to choose whether to repair the car or take the risk of losing sales
value at auction without repairs.
DRN-1574858Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges PSA have made for the
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen
raised by their competitors.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman