DRN-1676186
The complaint
Mr O complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and the length of time it took them to respond to 
his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr O spoke to HSBC in August 2019 about a separate complaint. On this call, HSBC 
disclosed the first line of another customers address. Mr O raised a complaint about and the 
way he was spoken to a few days later. HSBC upheld this complaint about paid £100 into Mr 
Os credit card account.
When raising his complaint, Mr O also made a DSAR which HSBC agreed to process. But, 
Mr O didnt receive a response within the expected timescale so raised another complaint 
about this in September. HSBC upheld this complaint, explaining the DSAR hadnt been sent 
to the correct team and offered to pay Mr O another £200.
In mid-October, Mr O complained to HSBC again explaining hed only received part of the 
information hed requested and that the call recordings hadnt been delivered. He also 
complained that the £200 offered in September hadnt been paid. HSBC agreed to escalate 
the issue with the call recordings and paid Mr O another £200 meaning in total he received 
£500 in compensation. But, by January 2020, Mr O still hadnt received the call recordings 
so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained shed seen 
evidence to show that HSBC had sent the call recordings at the end of October, which hadnt 
been collected from Mr Os local delivery depot. So, she thought HSBC had acted 
reasonably by sending the recordings and didnt think itd be fair to hold them responsible for 
any issues during the delivery process. She also thought the £500 HSBC had paid fairly 
compensated Mr O for the delays in responding to his DSAR and their disclosure of another 
customers address information. Mr O didnt agree to his complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to explain that its not the role of our service to fine HSBC for data breaches or 
failure to action a DSAR within the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidelines. This 
would need to be raised with the ICO directly. What I am able to consider is whether HSBC 
dealt with Mr Os DSAR fairly and reasonably and if they didnt, the impact this caused and 
what they need to do to put things right.
Its not in dispute that HSBC disclosed another customers address information in error. I 
understand that wouldve worried Mr O about the safety of his own information. But, as his 
own personal information hasnt been put at risk, I think the £100 HSBC paid fairly recognises any impact Mr O experienced. So, I dont think they need to offer anything more 
for this part of Mr Os complaint. 
Its also not in dispute that HSBC didnt deal with Mr Os DSAR as effectively as Id expect. 
Ive no doubt that this frustrated Mr O as he wasnt able to listen to the call recordings he 
wanted for a period of time. Mr O also had to call HSBC on a number of occasions to chase 
this and this took both time and effort.
But, Ive considered the delays and crucially, the delays that I think were the fault of HSBC. 
They agreed they failed to send the DSAR to the correct team in September and offered Mr 
O an additional £200 to recognise this. I think this is a fair offer which takes into account Mr 
Os need to complain again and the frustration that delay wouldve caused.
HSBC then sent Mr O correspondence which contained most of the information he 
requested, but not the call recordings. Mr O complained about this and the fact the previous 
£200 HSBC offered hadnt been paid. To resolve this, HSBC said theyd escalate the issue 
with the call recordings and paid Mr O another £200 on top of the £300 theyd already 
offered.
Mr O doesnt think this offer was enough as he didnt receive the call recordings until 
February 2020. But, Ive seen notes on HSBCs internal system which shows the recordings 
were sent on a CD by tracked postage on 30 October. Ive also seen the tracking information 
which shows the CD was returned to HSBC by Mr Os local delivery depot after it hadnt 
been collected.
I can understand Mr Os frustration that the call recordings werent delivered. But I dont think 
this was HSBCs fault. Im satisfied HSBC sent the call recordings and any issue with the 
delivery after this would be the responsibility of the courier. I understand Mr O believes 
HSBC had a responsibility to ensure the call recordings were delivered but I can only 
consider the circumstances they were able to control. In this situation, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to hold HSBC responsible for any delays after the call recordings were sent. 
Because of this, I think the £400 HSBC has paid Mr O to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced through the DSAR process is a fair and reasonable one. So, I dont 
think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman