DRN-3662345
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Jarvis Investment Management Limited trading as x-o.co.uk (Jarvis) 
caused her financial loss after it hadnt told her about a corporate action.
What happened
Mrs A held shares in Company A on Jarviss platform. In December 2020, there was a 
corporate action affecting shares in Company A. The corporate action was for a share 
consolidation  that is that each 100 shares held would be consolidated into one share. 
Mrs A wasnt told about this corporate action.
On 21 December 2020 Mrs A checked her holding and saw the value of her shares in 
Company A had increased substantially. She decided to sell some shares and put her order 
in. She sold 10,460 shares for around £47,000. The following day, Jarvis bought back 9,383 
shares for around £49,500 from Mrs As account. Mrs A complained as she hadnt given 
Jarvis permission to do this and she had incurred a loss of around £2,500 as well as not 
having a shareholding in Company A anymore.
Jarvis explained that it hadnt received notification of the corporate action from CREST  the 
electronic share depository  and as CREST hadnt processed the consolidation in time, 
Mrs As account looked like she held 100 times the shares she actually did. It explained that 
the price had been updated, but the shareholding hadnt. Therefore, she didnt have that 
number of shares to sell  which is why Jarvis had to buy back those shares.
Jarvis showed evidence it had asked CREST to compensate Mrs A for her losses, but it had 
refused to do so. Jarvis said its terms limit its liability to losses caused by events outside of 
its control  this was one of those events so it didnt accept responsibility.
I sent my second provisional decision on this complaint on 28 July 2022. In this I explained 
that I felt both parties should take some responsibility for the loss Mrs A incurred and so the 
loss should be split. For clarity, my reasoning for this decision is copied below and forms part 
of this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still intend to uphold this complaint but Ive thought about the redress, and 
what would be fair and reasonable having considered Jarviss detailed comments. So, whilst 
this may be disappointing for Mrs A, I dont intend to hold Jarvis responsible for the full loss 
shes experienced. Ill explain why.
I maintain that Jarvis hasnt done enough here. Jarvis is the nominee of Mrs As shares. That 
is, its the legal owner of the electronic shares. So, Mrs A should be entitled to rely on 
information she gets from Jarvis. Jarvis has said throughout the error lies with CREST and 
that its terms limit its liability when the loss has been caused by a third party. But in this 
case, CREST is the share register, Mrs A doesnt have any relationship with CREST and 
should be allowed to rely on information Jarvis gives her. Jarvis didnt tell Mrs A about the 
corporate action  despite knowing about it. Ive taken on board Jarviss point that its not 
required to make customers aware of non-elective corporate action. This may be so, but the 
internal emails between Jarvis and CREST show Jarvis was aware of the action. And whilst 
it wasnt aware of the error until a day after Mrs A made her trade, I dont think its fair to say 
that it should take no responsibility.
Jarviss platform displayed incorrect information  this isnt in dispute. I appreciate that it took 
Mrs A making the trade for Jarvis to realise this but I dont agree that she should be 
responsible for her full loss in this case. Jarvis has explained throughout that it bought back 
the shares in a timely manner when it realised, on 22 December 2020, that something had 
gone wrong. And I agree it did this but as the trade was executed based on misinformation 
showing on Jarviss platform, it needs to take some responsibility, as nominee, for the 
information it gives to its customers.
I now turn to whether it was reasonable for Mrs A to make the trade that she did  and this is 
where this provisional decision differs from my first. Ive thought about whether Mrs A ought 
to have known something wasnt quite right. She has mentioned that due to other market 
volatility, the rise in share price wasnt outside of the realms of possibility. And I agree that 
there were some sharp movements in the market in relation to some particular shares. But 
Ive looked at Mrs As trading history that Jarvis has provided and the arguments shes made 
to determine her experience. And I dont think shes inexperienced in these matters. Its clear 
Mrs A buys and sells shares using her platform regularly.
Mrs A purchased shares in Company A over a six month period. The most recent purchase 
was on 3 December 2020 when she paid around 3.372 per share. She then sold 10,460 
shares on 21 December at 450.9967 per share. This increase is over 13,000%. The surge 
Mrs A referenced in her complaint to say the increase wasnt outside the realms of possibility 
was 700% and related to a specific stock that had been part of an online movement. So, 
given Mrs As trading history and experience, I think she ought to have been aware that the 
increase may have not been right.
Mrs A explained that following the trade she became suspicious that something wasnt right 
after checking the same shareholding her family members had on different platforms. And I 
dont doubt that she may have thought the share price had actually increased, but I think she 
ought to have been aware something wasnt right prior to placing the trade.
It is for this reason that I dont think its fair or reasonable for only one party to bear the 
losses here. I think that had Jarviss platform been accurate or if it had notified Mrs A of the 
corporate action (of which it knew) then I dont think the trade wouldve happened. Equally, I 
think had Mrs A questioned her position and share prices shed have found that there was 
an error and the trade wouldnt have happened. So, Ive thought about what would be fair 
and reasonable in this particular case when outlining the redress I intend on awarding.
Ive thought about the position Mrs A would be in at this point in time. Its clear from her 
trading history that she reacts to movements in the market so I think its likely, had the share 
consolidation been apparent on the platform, that shed have sold her shares in Company A 
around this time. I cant see that Mrs A repurchased these shares afterwards. Jarvis, in not 
repurchasing the full number of shares Mrs A held after consolidation, hasnt cost Mrs A any 
more. So, the loss here is limited to the repurchase of the oversold shares.
I understand its disappointing for Mrs A to now be in this position, but because I think both 
she and Jarvis can be held responsible for the erroneous sale of 10,460 shares, the fair and 
reasonable position here is to split the loss incurred for the repurchase of the oversold 
shares. We know that the repurchase of the oversold shares was at a loss of £2,325.09  so 
Jarvis now needs to pay Mrs A half of this loss.Responses to the provisional decision
Neither Jarvis nor Mrs A agreed with my provisional decision. In summary Jarvis said there 
was no way it couldve avoided the issue with the incorrect information on its platform. It also 
said that the provisional decision was contradictory to published guidance on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services website which talks about compensation. Specifically where it says 
We dont compensate for the impact of events that were outside of the businesss control, or 
for the effects of a third-partys action.
Mrs A explained why she disagreed and said, in summary, the following in response to the 
provisional decision:
- Any movements are a result of information, and if the information lacks then she 
wasnt able to make a sound decision about market movements.
- Jarvis shouldve suspended trading as it knew about the corporate action, as shes 
aware another platform had done this.
- She lost the shares as well as money on that day and that hasnt been taken account 
of.
- Jarvis couldve contacted her to ask for consent prior to repurchasing the shares.
- Shes not the savvy investor that Jarvis has made her out to be, and shes asked to 
be awarded the full loss plus interest that the first provisional decision awarded.
- Jarvis tend to always alert investors to corporate actions, but on this case it didnt to 
her detriment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all points made by both parties. Ive not directly referenced each one but Ill 
summarise why the points havent changed my decision. As such, Ive reached the same 
outcome as my provisional decision dated 28 July 2022  the relevant extract of which is 
copied above and forms part of this decision.
Jarvis has said that it had no control over the issues. I explained in my provisional decision 
that I believed it couldve done more to prevent the impact of the issue, or to inform its 
customers so they wouldve been aware of an issue. I dont agree there was no way for it to 
avoid people trading incorrectly. It may not have been able to prevent incorrect information 
being displayed on its platform, but that doesnt mean it shouldnt be responsible for issues 
caused by this. It has more recourse than its customers when it comes to information it gets 
from CREST.
It has quoted information from the Financial Ombudsman Services website. This information 
relates to compensation awarded for trouble and upset. And in any event is about 
compensating people for issues that businesses havent caused  usually relating to external 
factors. Whilst I can see why Jarvis is mentioning that here, Ive concluded that it has overall 
responsibility over its platform information and there are things it couldve done to avoid the 
situation  especially since it was aware of what was happening with that corporate action 
prior to the issue occurring.
Ill turn to Mrs As points. I understand that she ought to be able to rely on the information on 
Jarviss website and this is why I came to the conclusion that I did  that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for only one party to be responsible for the losses. I understand Mrs A feels her investment experience has been misrepresented by Jarvis, but I reached my conclusion 
about whether she ought to be aware something wasnt right by looking at her trading history 
to determine her level of experience, rather than what Jarvis had told me. And after 
considering her points Ive reached the same conclusion that I believe she ought to have 
thought something wasnt right given the rapid increase of over 13,000% in her share price.
I did acknowledge that Mrs A ended up losing shares, as well as money from the 
repurchase. But looking at her history I thought that as she reacts to movements in market it 
was likely she would no longer have the shares in any event  as shed likely have sold 
them. And as she had oversold her shares, Jarvis needed to repurchase to reconcile the 
correct position on the register  I dont think it needed to ask her consent to do this  she 
had oversold shares, that is she sold shares she didnt have. Had Jarvis repurchased all 
shares, the loss would be even higher, and I dont think its likely shed have held on to those 
shares  Ive not seen evidence to show shes repurchased them later down the line.
I appreciate Mrs A lost out because of the repurchase, but I concluded it was fair and 
reasonable for both parties to take some responsibility for this. I think that had Jarviss 
platform been accurate or if it had notified Mrs A of the corporate action (of which it knew) 
then I dont think the trade wouldve happened. Equally, I think had Mrs A questioned her 
position and share prices shed have found that there was an error and the trade wouldnt 
have happened. As such, the fair and reasonable position in this case is for the loss to be 
split between both parties.
Putting things right
The original loss (£2,325.09) that was applied to Mrs As account when Jarvis repurchased 
9,393 shares on 22 December 2020 should be halved. I direct Jarvis to pay Mrs A that half 
into her account. As I think that this loss is partially due to Mrs As own actions, I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable for Jarvis to pay interest on this sum, despite Mrs A regularly 
trading with a credit balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Jarvis Investment 
Management Limited trading as x-o.co.uk to follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman