DRN-1580867
 
The complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about two instalment loans she took with MYJAR Limited. She says 
these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
The loans were taken out between April 2018 and July 2019. A summary of Miss Hs 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/04/2018 16/04/2018 12 £550.00 £83.04
2 19/07/2019 Outstanding 6 £325.00 £96.78
Miss Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think that loan 1 
should have been lent as the adjudicator thought Miss H was showing signs of struggling to 
manage her money. However, they didnt think there was anything in the information MYJAR 
had asked Miss H to provide that should have prompted it to do more checks for loan 2. So, 
the adjudicator couldnt say MYJAR was wrong to have given this loan to Miss H. 
MYJAR accepted out adjudicators view. But Miss H disagreed because she didnt think the 
checks MYJAR did at loan 2 went far enough, so it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. 
There was a significant break in Miss Hs borrowing from MYJAR. There was a gap of 
around 15 months between loans 1 and 2. I think it would be reasonable for MYJAR to view 
this gap as an indication that Miss Hs finances had stabilised after whatever the 
circumstances were that had caused her to take out her previous loan. So, I will look at   
Miss Hs borrowing in two separate lending chains. 
Our adjudicator upheld loan 1. MYJAR agreed with our adjudicators assessment. As that 
loan is no longer in dispute, I wont make any further findings on it.
That just leaves Miss Hs second loan to consider. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators 
view because she thought MYJARs checks didnt go far enough and it should have been 
aware that she was struggling financially and was behind on her repayments for other loans. 
So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss H about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,250. MYJAR also checked Miss Hs normal 
monthly living costs. Miss H declared these to be between £856 a month. MYJAR says it 
also searched Miss Hs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent 
any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at 
the time the loan was taken out. 
Miss H has also provided a copy of her credit report and this shows she was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders. But a lot of this borrowing doesnt show on the credit report findings 
MYJAR has provided. I can also see that Miss H took out several short-term loans around 
the same time she took out the loan from MYJAR  so these wouldnt yet have shown up on 
any checks MYJAR would have done before it lent to Miss H. So, I dont think there was anything in the information gathered that would have caused 
MYJAR to have increased its checks before it lent to Miss H again.
As mentioned above there was a 15-month gap between Miss H paying off loan 1 and 
coming back to borrow loan 2. A break in the chain of lending in effect, starts the clock 
ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry 
out when considering the length of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. 
So, when applying for loan 2, Miss H was back to being very early on in her lending 
relationship with MYJAR. Even though she had to make monthly repayments, the highest 
repayment appeared affordable based on the information she declared to MYJAR. And there 
wasnt anything in the information Miss H provided at the time which would have given 
MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied on what 
Miss H gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
I appreciate, from what Miss H has said, the information she declared to MYJAR at the time 
of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances. But I 
think MYJAR was entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, 
and what MYJAR knew about Miss H, I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the 
information Miss H gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that MYJAR did anything wrong 
in lending Miss H this loan. So, I wont be asking MYJAR to do any more than its already 
agreed to do. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss H. But I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right
As a reminder to MYJAR here is what its agreed to do in relation to loan 1:
refund all interest and charges Miss H paid on loan 1;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 1 from Miss Hs credit file;
the amount refunded should be used to repay any balance remaining on the 
outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, this should be repaid to Miss H. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance, then MYJAR should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give      
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
Im partially uphold Miss Hs complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman