DRN-3066543
The complaint
Company A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to prevent the 
companys loss or help them recover money it had sent to one of Barclays customers as a 
result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, in March 2020, Company A made a payment of €10,412.67 on an invoice 
which they believed was from their supplier. Unfortunately, unknown to them the invoice had 
been intercepted by a fraudster who had changed the payment details. As a result, the 
payment went to a different account with Barclays instead of the intended recipient. 
The scam came to light several days later. A contacted their bank who in turn contacted 
Barclays. 
Barclays informed A that there were no funds remaining in the account where the
payment went into by the time the sending bank advised them of the scam. 
Company A feel that Barclays could have done more to prevent the fraud. In particular, they 
say that the bank ought to have checked the name of the recipient against the name of the 
intended payee. Barclays say that the inbound payment was formatted correctly in that the 
IBAN matched the account and so the funds were credited automatically. 
One of our investigators reviewed the case and concluded that Barclays neednt do anything 
further apart from refunding £24.51 the bank recovered from its customer. Overall, they 
didnt think that As loss was caused by any act or omission by Barclays when opening the 
recipients account or when responding to notification of fraud. So, they didnt think Barclays 
needed to provide A with a refund for their loss.
A did not agree. Through its representative it insisted that Barclays ought to have verified the 
name of the recipient against the name of the intended payee.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for A, so Ill explain why.
I am sorry to hear that A has been an innocent victim of a callous scam. From their 
perspective I can see why they feel that Barclays should reimburse them for their loss. 
However, an account found to have received funds which were made as a result of 
authorised push payment fraud doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund 
nor does it indisputably mean that the recipient bank failed reasonably to prevent the loss.
In this instance, firstly I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays could reasonably 
have foreseen when the account was opened that it would later be used to receive 
fraudulent credit.
I am also satisfied that the payment Company A made into the account was broadly in line 
with the account activity. As such, I dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had 
concerns where Id have expected it to have intervened. So again, I cant fairly conclude that 
Barclays missed an opportunity here to prevent As loss.
And finally, upon notification of the scam, a receiving bank is expected to take action 
immediately to prevent any further loss of funds. In this instance, by the time Barclays were 
notified of the scam their customer had already removed most of the money from their 
account. So, there wasnt much Barclays could do to prevent As loss. Nevertheless, I can 
see that the bank did place an immediate block on the account and removed the balance of 
£24.51 that remained in the account. And following its investigation it went on to close the 
account. 
That said, I can see no reason why the recovered amount of £24.51 wasnt returned to A. 
So, Barclays should return this amount to A together with interest. The refund should be 
made at no cost to A.
Company A strongly feels that Barclays ought to have checked the name of the recipient 
against the intended payee name and had it done so the fraud would have come to light 
straightaway thereby preventing the loss to A.
In this regard, Company As representative has referred us to a consultative document 
issued in September 2008 by Basel Committee on banking supervision titled Due diligence 
and transparency regarding cover payment messages related to cross border wire transfer. 
As representative has referred us in particular to paragraphs 26, 27 and 28 in the document 
which is about the responsibilities of beneficiaries banks.
I have considered this document, together with the final version of this document that was 
released in 2009 where the corresponding section about responsibilities of beneficiaries 
banks is under paragraphs 32 and 33.
The relevant section essentially states that: The bank of the beneficiary must identify the 
beneficiary, and verify its identity, in accordance with the standards governing customer due 
diligence.  
The representative has also referred us to the footnote to paragraph 26 of the consultative 
document and says that the beneficiary bank has to repeatedly identify and verify the 
identity of each customer every time that a customer conducts a transaction. 
But the footnote actually states that the above requirement do not imply that financial 
institutions have to repeatedly identify and verify the identity of each customer every time 
that a customer conducts a transaction. An institution is entitled to rely on the identification 
and verification steps that it has already undertaken unless it has doubts about the veracity 
of that information
Thus, the provisions essentially require the beneficiary bank to carry out its due diligence in 
verifying the identity of the beneficiary and it doesnt necessarily have to do this every time the customer carries out a specific transaction unless it has doubts about the veracity of the 
information.
I have already considered whether there was any failure on part of Barclays in this regard 
when the account was opened. And I have also considered whether Barclays ought 
reasonably to have had concerns in relation to the specific transaction and have concluded it 
wasnt the case.
Further, as explained by the investigator, whilst the payment instruction included the name of 
the intended payee, the unique identifier was IBAN. So, the payment would be received into 
the account so long as the IBAN was correct, which was the case here. 
The Payment Systems Regulator who are the regulator for the payment systems industry in 
the UK, have last year introduced a system called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). This 
provides for the checking - by the payers bank - of the recipients name against the intended 
payee in certain circumstances. However, the CoP was not in place at the time this 
transaction happened and in any case it doesnt apply to international transfers such as this.
In summary, I am sorry to have to disappoint A. But I can only make an award against a 
bank if that bank has done something wrong which has led to a loss. In this case, from what 
Ive seen there hasnt been a failing by Barclays which has resulted in As loss. And as such 
I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that in full and final settlement of this 
complaint Barclays should return the £24.51 to A, together with interest at 8% simple p.a. 
Interest should be paid from the date A raised its fraud claim with Barclays to the date of 
payment. The refund should be made at no cost to A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman