DRN-4060599
The complaint
Miss D complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited avoided her car insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim. 
What happened
Miss D took out a car insurance policy with Skyfire Insurance and then called Skyfire to 
change her vehicle. Skyfire says it asked Miss D if the change of vehicle was a standard UK 
vehicle which she replied yes. Skyfire updated the policy to insure the change of vehicle. 
A named driver under Miss Ds policy was involved in an incident and so Miss D made a 
claim to Skyfire. Skyfire discovered that the vehicle was an import. It said Miss D had 
answered the question about this incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and not meet the claim. 
Miss D brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. 
She thought Miss D hadnt take reasonable care when answering the question about 
whether the car was an import and the onus was on her to provide honest and accurate 
information. 
Miss D doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She says she couldnt 
have known the car was an import as the V5 registration document was in another language. 
She says her partner bought the car privately. She doesnt remember being asked if the car 
was an import and wants a copy of the call recording from Skyfire. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire Insurance thinks Miss D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she answered no to the question if the car was an import. 
Ive listened to the key call and Im satisfied Miss D was asked a clear question. At three 
minutes 40 seconds the agent asked Miss D if she was able to confirm if the vehicle was a 
standard UK vehicle. Miss D said; yes it is. 
The Statement of Fact document which was sent to Miss D when she changed the vehicle 
reads:
Vehicle imported - No. 
The Statement of Fact gave Miss D a further opportunity to check if the information provided 
was correct. I understand Miss D says she doesnt remember being asked if the vehicle was 
imported. But she also says she didnt think it was, which means it was unlikely that Miss D 
would have answered the question correctly in any event. But as the customer, Miss D is 
responsible for checking the information she provides to an insurer about her car is correct. 
Its reasonable for the insurer to rely on the answers Miss D gave as being given with 
reasonable care. 
Skyfire Insurance has provided evidence to show it wouldnt have offered a policy if it knew 
Miss Ds car was imported. And it highlights that it doesnt insure imported cars on its 
website. 
This means Im satisfied Miss Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Skyfire Insurance has said Miss Ds misrepresentation was careless because she didnt take 
reasonable care to check the V5C registration document as the date of registration and the 
date of first registered in the UK are different. 
I agree that Miss Ds misrepresentation was careless for the same reason as Skyfire. As Im 
satisfied Miss Ds misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions 
Skyfire Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Skyfire avoided Miss Ds policy and declined the claim because of this. It kept the premium 
for the policy year due to a previous claim it was dealing with. Skyfire provided a refund of 
the premium Miss D paid since the renewal date. 
In light of all this, I think Skyfire has provided a fair and reasonable outcome in line with 
CIDRA. And so this means Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman