DRN-2881135
The complaint
Miss T complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) didnt handle her claim on her motor 
insurance policy well. She also complains that they gave her an unfair valuation for her car, 
which they deemed beyond economical repair.
As our investigator noted, there were a number of companies involved in the claims process. 
But this complaint is only about Zenith who are the insurers of Miss Ts motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss T was involved in an accident which wasnt her fault on 9 June 2020. She reported the 
accident to Zenith for information only, as she was trying to progress the claim through an 
accident management company (AMC). A courtesy car was arranged through the AMC. 
Zenith spoke to Miss T on 3 August 2020 to find out if she wanted to make a claim. Zenith 
said that the policy excess of £650 would need to be paid as the third party hadnt admitted 
liability at this point. Miss T told Zenith that she wanted to speak with a solicitor before 
deciding whether to claim.
On 5 August 2020, Miss Ts partner called Zenith to tell them that the courtesy car company 
wanted the hire car back. Zenith told him that the claim had still only been reported for 
information. They asked him whod provided the hire car. Miss Ts partner wasnt clear 
whether it was the AMC or the broker. 
Miss T called Zenith later that day to tell them she wanted to claim. She also called them on 
6 August 2020. They said that theyd instruct their repairers to assess the damage to her car. 
The following day, Zenith reviewed the information their repairers had provided about the 
damage. 
On 12 August 2020 Miss T told Zenith that the third-party driver had admitted liability for the 
accident. 
On 5 September 2020, Zenith told Miss T that the repairers and hire car company hadnt 
been able to contact her. They wanted to know if she still wanted to make a claim. Miss T 
said shed be away until 16 September 2020. But that shed make arrangements with the 
repairers when she got back. 
On 8 September 2020, the third-party insurers accepted liability for the accident. 
On 25 September 2020, Zenith called Miss T to provide an update on her claim. They 
explained that they had no control over the hire car and told Miss T to speak to the hire car 
company directly to see if the car hire could be extended. They also said that if the hire car 
company werent willing to extend, Miss T could get a courtesy car through them.
On 7 October 2020, Zenith called Miss T to discuss the value theyd offered her for her car. 
They offered £1,597 which she wasnt happy with. So she complained about this. 
Zenith issued two different final response letters covering different aspects of her complaint. 
They didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint about their valuation of her car in one of these 
responses. They said theyd offered a fair amount for it in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.  
But in the other response, they offered £100 compensation for the level of communication 
and service surrounding the repairs to her car. 
Unhappy, Miss T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
felt that Zenith had made a fair offer for the value of the car. She also thought that they 
werent responsible for any delays in the claim. Although she acknowledged that Zenith had 
provided incorrect information about the hire car in November 2020, she noted that theyd 
quickly corrected their mistake and offered an alternative. She also felt that Zenith had acted 
reasonably when theyd initially asked Miss T to pay the policy excess. Overall, she felt that 
the £100 Zenith had offered in compensation for the incorrect communication and level of 
service provided was fair in the circumstances.
Miss T didnt agree. She still felt that Zenith hadnt handled her claim in a reasonable 
timeframe. She also felt that she shouldnt be responsible for the cost of the hire car from the 
AMC. She felt that as Zenith had told her they would extend the original hire car, they should 
cover the cost until her claim had been settled. She also still didnt agree that the valuation of 
her car had been fair. So she asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
So her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
There are a number of strands to this complaint. For clarity, Ill then deal with the complaint 
about the valuation of the car first. Then Ill look at what Zenith told Miss T about the car hire. 
Finally Ill deal with the complaints about the claims handling together. These are:
Zenith asking Miss T to pay the excess before theyd approach the third-party insurer
Zenith causing delays to the claim
Zenith causing upset and stress throughout the claim
Car valuation
Ill first look at what the policy terms say about the value Zenith will pay in the event that a 
car is deemed a write off.
The policy defines the market value of a car as: The cost of replacing the car with another of 
the same make. Specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened. 
The policy goes on to say: The insurer will not pay more than the market value of the car at 
the time of the loss. So the policy is clear that the most Zenith will pay for a write off is the market value of the car at the time of the loss.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this as we think these guides are reliable. Theyre based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices and take the cars specifications, mileage etc into account.
Looking at the details of Miss Ts car, I found that the market value fell into a range between 
£1,050 and £1,600. As Zenith offered £1,597 for the car. As this sits near the top of the 
range Ive found, Im satisfied that their valuation is fair and reasonable.
I acknowledge that Miss T had work done on her car a few weeks before the accident. But 
note that that this makes little to no difference to the valuation. As noted by our investigator, 
maintenance is expected to keep a car in retail condition. So if the work hadnt been done, it 
may have been valued at a lower price.
I also note that Miss T has shared details of adverts for similar cars on sale at higher prices 
than the valuation she was offered. But we find that the trade guides we use are more 
accurate than advertised prices. This is both because those prices include a profit margin 
and because they dont necessarily represent the price the advertised vehicle sells for. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Zenith offered a fair value for the car.
Car hire
From everything thats been provided to me, I can see that Zenith told Miss T on 17 
November 2020 that they would ask the car hire company, who they didnt appoint, to extend 
the hire until her claim had been settled. 
I also note that one day later, on 18 November 2020, Zenith corrected their mistake. They 
said that they apologised that: you were misinformed yesterday regarding the hire extension 
with [company name]. In effort to attempt to resolve this matter, we have proposed to raise 
an interim payment representing our best offer in regards to the pre-accident value and have 
offered to instruct one of our suppliers to provide you with an alternative hire vehicle valid 
until Monday.
Looking at the claim notes, I can see that Zenith told Miss T on a number of occasions that 
they werent responsible for the car hire. For example, on 5 August 2020 when they spoke to 
her partner the notes say the following about car hire with Zenith: I advised that as this is 
Total Loss, hire would only be provided if Policy Holder took the additional cover, when 
purchasing the policy. I advised claim was reported for info only initially so is hire via broker 
or AMC.  So although I acknowledge that it mustve been confusing when Zenith suggested 
they could extend the car hire for Miss T, this was clearly a mistake. And Zenith corrected 
that mistake the following day by calling to explain what had happened.
When Zenith called Miss T to correct their mistake, they told her theyd arrange a hire car 
through their provider. So Im satisfied that they corrected their mistake quickly and that the 
mistake didnt cause Miss T to take any action she hadnt already taken. So Im not 
persuaded that Zenith need to do anything further for this part of the complaint.  
I note that Miss T has recently provided  through the solicitor acting on behalf of the car hire 
company  a letter she received from them dated 18 February 2021. The letter states: The 
provision of the Vehicle was arranged by your insurers. It goes on to state that Miss Ts 
insurer: refused to extend the rental beyond 28 August 2020 but you elected to keep the 
Vehicle. The letter details the hire charges that built up between 29 August and 16 November 2020.
Miss T initially went through an AMC to deal with her claim and the car hire was arranged 
before Miss T made a claim through Zenith. Ive seen no evidence that Zenith arranged the 
car hire. So I dont consider that Zenith are responsible for the car hire referenced in this 
letter.  
Claim handling
Miss T complained that Zenith asked her to pay £650 - the policy excess  before they would 
contact the third-party insurer. She didnt think this was fair as the accident wasnt her fault. 
But Zenith didnt do anything wrong when they made this request. Its usual for an insurer to 
ask a policyholder to pay this when they make a claim. In many non-fault claims, the 
policyholder will get it back as soon as liability for the accident has been agreed. 
In a call to Miss T on 3 August 2020, Zenith said that they couldnt send allegations to the 
third-party insurer until shed decided to make a claim. The third-party insurer did admit 
liability on 8 September 2020. Zenith waived the excess. So Miss T never actually paid it. Im 
satisfied that Zenith did nothing wrong here. 
Ive seen no evidence that Zenith caused delays to the claim. I can see from the claims file 
that Zenith sent allegations to the third-party insurer on the same day Miss T confirmed she 
wanted to make a claim on her policy. I acknowledge that it was almost 4 weeks after the 
third party had admitted fault that their insurer accepted liability. But I cant hold Zenith 
responsible for another insurers claims process.
I can see from the claims file that Miss T was often hard to get hold of. And that she didnt 
actually confirm she wanted to make a claim for almost two months after the accident. She 
was then away for some time and that caused some delay to the claims process. But I agree 
with our investigator that Zenith couldve chased the third-party insurer more actively.
Zenith have offered £100 compensation for the incorrect communication about the hire car 
and level of service they provided.
I acknowledge that Miss T says that Zenith caused her stress and upset throughout the 
claims process. But based on everything Ive seen, I consider that the £100 compensation 
they offered is fair. Its in line with what I would have awarded if Zenith hadnt. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman