DRN-4221764
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) provided to him. 
He says his use of credit was already high and his credit score was poor so this should have 
shown that the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Shawbrook provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £35.27. One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M 
and Shawbrook had told us. And she thought that Shawbrook hadnt done anything wrong or 
treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a little 
more detail.
Shawbrook needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Shawbrook needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Shawbrook says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Shawbrook have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with Shawbrook. And Shawbrook has provided an 
output of the income and expenditure information it obtained at the time of Mr Ms application 
as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
Shawbrooks searches appear to show that Mr M did have some existing debts. The majority 
of which was made up of his mortgage. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms 
existing debts were being well maintained and there was no significant adverse information 
such as defaults or county court judgements (CCJ). And when payments for Mr Ms active 
credit commitments, were deducted from his income, he does appear to have had sufficient 
funds left over to cover living expenses and the low monthly payments to this loan.
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information hes provided, or the information Shawbrook obtained at 
the time. 
But Shawbrook could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And as this was a first loan with low monthly payments and there 
wasnt anything to indicate that Mr M might have been experiencing financial difficulty at the 
time, Im satisfied that Shawbrook was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr M could afford 
to make his payments. 
I accept that it is possible  but not certain - that Shawbrook might have reached a different 
conclusion on whether to provide this loan had it seen Mr Ms bank statements. But given 
the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Shawbrook did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr M  in my view, checks carried out, which were proportionate, suggested the low monthly 
repayments  of just over £35 a month - were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Shawbrook treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman