DRN-3021990
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the service that shes received from Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) 
regarding an outstanding loan.
What happened
Mrs W had a loan with her late husband, Mr W, which was included in a debt arrangement 
scheme (DAS) which meant that the loan was frozen and that payments werent required 
on the loan and the loan didnt accrue further interest. 
Sadly, in September 2018, Mr W passed away. This meant that the DAS was revoked and it 
should have been a consequence of this that the loan was unfrozen and that Mrs W would 
have had to make a new arrangement with BOS on how to manage the loan, had she 
wanted to do so. However, this didnt happen, and BOS didnt unfreeze the loan or make any 
attempt to contact Mrs W about it.
In November 2020, Mrs W contacted BOS and asked what the status of the loan was. BOS 
incorrectly informed Mrs W that the loan had been written off and that no further payments 
toward the loan would be required. 
BOS later explained to Mrs W that this wasnt the case, and that the balance remained 
outstanding. Additionally, BOS applied suppressed interest to the account which increased 
the balance by several thousand pounds.
BOS apologised to Mrs W for the incorrect information and made a payment of £100 to Mrs 
W as compensation for the trouble and upset the matter caused. BOS also reimbursed the 
supressed interest amount that had been added to the account so that the balance returned 
to what it had been before the interest had been added. Finally, BOS applied a default to the 
account, backdating the default to October 2018, which they felt was when it should 
reasonably have been applied.
Mrs W wasnt happy with what had taken place, and especially with the service that shed 
received from BOS surrounding this issue. So, she raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mrs Ws complaint. They felt that they already taken the appropriate 
corrective action needed to put Mrs W back in the financial position that she should be in, 
but acknowledged that that should have provided better information and service to Mrs W. 
Because of this, BOS offered to pay a further £125 to Mrs W.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that BOSs response to Mrs 
Ws complaint, including the corrective action already undertaken by BOS and the further 
offer of compensation to Mrs W, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what 
had taken place, and so they didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS dont dispute that their actions surrounding this loan should have been different, and 
theyve apologised to Mrs W because of this and taken corrective action designed to put Mrs 
W back into the financial position that she should be in, had the correct action been taken by 
BOS in the first instance.
BOSs actions here are what this service would expect, given the circumstances, and Im 
satisfied that the corrective action that BOS have taken, including the reimbursement of 
suppressed interest and the application of a default backdated to when it should in all 
likelihood have reasonably first been applied  so that Mrs W doesnt have to incur the 
consequences of the default longer than should have been necessary  has taken due 
account of Mrs Ws financial circumstances and returned Mrs W to the financial position that 
she should be in, had BOS attempted to administer and collect on the outstanding balance 
following the revoking of the DAS upon the death of Mr W in September 2018. And I say this 
because Mrs Ws financial circumstances remained in a position that leads me to feel that 
continuing financial assistance, such as the ongoing freezing of the loan, would, in all 
likelihood, continued to have been appropriate. 
BOS have also paid compensation of £100 to Mrs W, and offered a further £125, in 
consideration of the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. And Mrs W has 
expressed to this service that she doesnt feel that this amount of compensation goes far 
enough.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, while I 
acknowledge that Mrs W will likely disagree, the compensation that BOS have already paid 
and offered to Mrs W here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
It must be remembered that this compensation amount isnt in relation to the balance 
outstanding on the loan, which was always valid and outstanding, but rather is in relation to 
Mrs W being given incorrect information and the trouble and upset that this cause, as well as 
for the general standard of service that Mrs W received from BOS, including the length of 
time that Mrs W had to spend dealing with this matter. And, when considered in this light, I 
do feel that a compensation offer totalling £225 is a fair and reasonable amount.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that BOS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs W in how theyve managed the situation with the outstanding loan 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to 
take any further action at this time, beyond that to which theyve already agreed. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs W was wanting, but I hope that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman