DRN-3224216
The complaint
Mr N would like Lloyds Bank PLC to refund all of the money he lost when he fell victim to a 
cryptocurrency investment scam.
Mr N is represented when bringing this complaint by his mum, Mrs N. 
What happened
On 31 March 2021, Mr N was contacted by a friend on Snapchat. His friend told him that he 
knew an investment advisor and that Mr N could get a good return on his money by investing 
in cryptocurrency. Mr N was interested. Unfortunately, both Mr N and his friend were being 
tricked by fraudsters.
The fraudsters guided Mr N to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange. Mr N made 
three payments from his Lloyds account to an electronic money institution and then onwards 
to a cryptocurrency trading platform.
Date Time Amount 
31/3/21 23:45 £15 
31/3/21 23:55 £485
1/4/21 00:03 £500
 
The fraudsters were also able to log into Mr Ns current account and withdraw £1,850. This 
money has already been refunded by Lloyds and does not form part of this complaint. 
The scam came to light when Mr N spoke to his family about the investment. It was reported 
to the bank on 2 April 2021. Lloyds tried to recover the funds that had been sent but 
ultimately was not successful. It told Mr N to contact the cryptocurrency trading platform to 
see if there was anything it could do.
Unhappy with the banks position, Mrs N complained. She felt £1,000 should never have 
been allowed to leave Mr Ns account in the first place as he was only 17 at the time of the 
scam. She says the bank should have an automatic block in place to prevent minors from 
making payments to these kinds of activities which are illegal for under 18s. 
The bank issued its final response on 16 April 2021. It said that it was unable to treat the 
situation as an APP scam because the money had been sent from Mr Ns bank account to 
another account in his own name. It explained the payments were not covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code because the money hadnt gone directly to the 
fraudsters. It felt there was no reason for the bank to have intervened in the payments at the 
time they were being made. It paid £75 compensation to recognise it had given Mr N false 
hope that the bank would be able to raise a scam claim in these circumstances. 
Mrs N referred the complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the situation but did 
not think Lloyds had done anything wrong. She didnt think the payments Mr N made were 
unusual or concerning enough to fairly expect the bank to have asked more questions about 
them at the time they were made. She noted that Mr N regularly made faster payments to 
new payees. She didnt think the bank could be held responsible for the cryptocurrency 
trading platform allowing an account to be opened by a minor and pointed out it wouldnt 
have been obvious to the bank that cryptocurrency was involved as the funds were sent to 
an intermediary payment service provider first.
Mrs N disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked into again. She felt Mr N had 
been treated unfairly and questioned why payments of £500 were considered normal 
payments as hed only ever previously paid these amounts to family members. She also 
pointed out that Mr Ns friend who had fallen victim to the same scam at the same time had 
been fully refunded by his bank after referring a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. She wanted to know why Mr N was being treated differently. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr N. But having thought very carefully about Lloyds 
actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably by making the payments. I also think it took 
appropriate steps to try and recover the funds. I dont think Lloyds needs to reimburse Mr N 
with the remaining money he lost or pay him any further compensation. I know this is going 
to be very disappointing for both Mr N and Mrs N so I will explain why. 
Mrs N has referred to another complaint considered by this service and pointed out that it 
was part of the same scam. Its natural that she would want to understand the differences 
between them. I am not able to discuss another complainants case specifically. But I would 
point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem similar, each complaint is 
determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at 
the individual circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. 
Theres no doubt that Mr N has been the victim of a cruel scam. But that alone doesnt mean 
he must be reimbursed by the bank. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank 
is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make.
When Mr N made the payments, he didnt know he was dealing with a fraudster. But the 
payments from his Lloyds account were still authorised. Theres no debate that he set them 
up himself and gave his permission for each one. This means he is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Lloyds have done 
any more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that Mr N would have 
realised what was happening and stopped sending money.
Lloyds should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. Mrs N 
has pointed out that it was unusual for Mr N to send this much money outside of the family 
and that the bank should automatically block cryptocurrency payments attempted by juvenile 
customers.
Lloyds did not identify any of the payments still in dispute as being suspicious at the time 
Mr N was making them. Im not persuaded that I can fairly say that Mr Ns activity that day 
should have stood out. Ive looked carefully at Mr Ns account statements for around a year 
leading up to the scam. He often makes faster payments to new payees. Whilst I accept 
Mrs Ns point that he doesnt make payments of this size to anyone other than his immediate 
family members, I still dont think the payments were unusual enough that they should have 
been stopped for further investigation. Mr N was transferring the funds from his Lloyds 
account to an electronic money institution. The electronic money institution provides 
payment solutions to all kinds of different companies, so I do not think it was readily 
apparent to the bank that Mr Ns funds were ultimately destined for a cryptocurrency 
exchange. In addition, the payments did not use all of Mr Ns available balance. From what I 
have seen, I dont think the amounts would have stood out enough for the bank to have been 
concerned that Mr N might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. I say this bearing 
in mind his age and the time at which the transactions were made. 
The bank has to strike a balance between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. The payments were fairly typical amounts given Mr Ns 
account history and I dont think they would have stood out enough to be uncharacteristic. 
As the payments appear unremarkable in amongst Mr Ns day to day spending, I dont think 
the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. 
In these circumstances I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to take any further action or have 
had a conversation with Mr N before making the payments. As I dont think Lloyds acted 
incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have 
refunded Mr N for any other reason.
From what I have seen, Lloyds did try to follow the money when it learnt of what had 
happened, but sadly no funds remained to be recovered. I am satisfied that Lloyds did what 
it could in the circumstances. I have considerable sympathy for what Mr N has been through. 
He worked hard to save the money he has lost. But I am only able to consider whether 
Lloyds can fairly be held liable for his loss. 
After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say Lloyds should have to do more 
than it has already. As such, it would not be fair to ask the bank to refund the remainder of 
the money lost or to pay any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman