DRN-2785639
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information about her 
account with credit reference agencies despite assurances that they wouldnt.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs D held a joint account with Barclays. At the time, the account balance was 
overdrawn more than the limit agreed. Mrs D told Barclays that the account excess was as a 
result of withdrawals and transactions made by the other party to the account.
In February 2019, Mrs D visited a branch of Barclays to discuss the situation on her account 
with an advisor. Shed paid in money to reduce the overdrawn balance and asked them to 
reduce the overdraft limit to £700. This was enough to cover the outstanding balance at the 
time. Barclays agreed to do this.
During the following months, various direct debits were presented for payment on the 
account. But funds hadnt been deposited to cover these, so Barclays returned the direct 
debits unpaid. They also charged return fees. The various charges resulted in the account 
balance exceeding the agreed limit of £700.
In August 2019, Mrs D deposited funds into the account to repay the amount owed, and the 
account was closed.
In February 2020, Mrs D completed an application to re-mortgage her property. Her advisor 
told her that she wouldnt be able to do this with her existing mortgage lender. She was told 
this was because there was adverse information reported on her credit file by Barclays. So, 
Mrs D arranged a re-mortgage through a different provider. As a result, she incurred an early 
redemption charge of £1,600 from her original mortgage lender.
Mrs D complained to Barclays. She said that one of their advisors had assured her that if the 
overdraft was repaid, her credit file wouldnt be impacted. She said that Barclays had 
incorrectly advised her and wanted them to remove the adverse information from her credit 
file. 
Barclays investigated Mrs Ds complain. They said that no error had occurred, and that the 
information recorded with the credit reference agencies was factually correct. Mrs D didnt 
agree, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. He didnt 
think that Barclays had made a mistake here. Mrs D was unhappy with our investigators 
findings. So, she asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says that she was told by a Barclays advisor that if she repaid the account balance in 
full, her credit would not be affected. Barclays have provided copies of all their file notes 
which include reference to Mrs Ds discussions with them. This includes the meeting she had 
with their advisor in February 2019. 
Barclays notes refer to Mrs Ds request to reduce the overdraft limit on the account to £700. 
But there is no reference to a discussion about any potential impact upon her credit file. 
Barclays have reviewed their files and are unable to find any evidence to suggest that Mrs D 
was wrongly advised. 
I appreciate and understand Mrs Ds recollection of what she believes was discussed with 
Barclays advisor. Unfortunately, I cant find anything to suggest that Barclays acted in a 
misleading or inappropriate way here. In any event, I cant see that Mrs D repaid the 
overdraft before August 2019. I do understand Mrs Ds frustration, but with no other 
evidence available, I cant conclude that Barclays did anything wrong.
Ive also seen a letter sent by Barclays to Mrs D dated 6 May 2019. The contents inform Mrs 
D that her account was above the agreed limit. It states that Information regarding the 
conduct of your account may be sent to credit reference agenciesThis may affect your 
ability to obtain credit. A poor credit rating could affect your ability to get a loan, a mortgage 
or a credit card in the future. I think Barclays were clear about what could happen here. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) publish their Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. They state that data that 
is reported on your credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date.  
I have reviewed the statements in relation to the account that Mrs B had with Barclays. They 
show that the balance of the account was regularly in excess of the overdraft limit that was 
agreed. Any information that Barclays reports needs to be factually correct. So, in this case, I 
believe that Barclays were right to report these excesses at the time. Failure to do so 
wouldve been a breach of their responsibilities.
So, having considered all of this, I cant see that Barclays made a mistake in recording 
information about Mrs Ds account with the credit reference agencies. I do realise that Mrs D 
will be disappointed, but Im unable to find that Barclays have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman