DRN-2907886
The complaint
Mr P complains about the exchange rate and charges applied to an international transfer he 
made from his Santander UK Plc account. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr P called Santander and instructed an international transfer for £40,000 
to a family member. Mr P asked to make the transfer in sterling. Santander said it would 
charge £25 and Mr P confirmed he was willing to proceed. 
The following day, before the payment was sent, Santander called Mr P to confirm the 
instruction details. Santander checked the destination account details and amount Mr P 
wanted to transfer. Mr P confirmed he wanted to send £40,000. Towards the end of the call, 
Mr P asked Santander if it was aware how much local currency would be received. 
Santanders call handler said that as the payment was being sent in sterling the receiving 
bank would convert it to the local currency, so it wasnt possible to say. Mr P confirmed he 
wanted to proceed and the payment was sent. 
Mr P called Santander again later that day and complained that he had lost out on around 
£840 due to the exchange rate used when the funds were converted to the local currency. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about the exchange rate used. But it did offer Mr P 
£75 because it didnt talk about fees the receiving bank and any intermediary banks may 
have applied. Mr P has explained that, even using the exchange rate applied, around 
£39,965 was received in the destination account. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Santander had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the available calls, including the initial transfer instruction and the 
confirmation call that occurred the following day. During the initial transfer instruction call, 
Mr P was asked whether he wanted to transfer his funds in sterling or convert them to the 
local currency. Mr P confirmed he wanted to transfer funds in sterling. When Santander 
called Mr P back the following day, it ran through the transfer and completed various checks. 
The call handler confirmed Mr P wanted to send the funds in pounds and he agreed. Mr P 
then asked the call handler if they could confirm how much would be received in the 
destination account. The call handler explained that as the destination bank would be 
carrying out the conversion, it wasnt possible for Santander to say. So Im satisfied 
Santander never gave an indication of the exchange rate that would be used. 
Mr P has complained about the exchange rate used in this case, but it wasnt Santander that 
converted the payment. The receiving bank, or its intermediary, converted the funds from 
sterling to the local currency after Santander sent it. As Mr P has confirmed, he instructed 
Santander to make a payment in sterling. Santander didnt carry out a foreign exchange 
conversion in this case. So whilst I appreciate Mr P feels the exchange rate used wasnt 
competitive, Santander had no control over the rate used once the sterling payment was 
received by the destination bank. 
The only fee Santander charged was £25 which was discussed during the initial transfer call. 
I understand a further £35 has been deducted from the funds Mr P sent and I think its more 
likely than not that the difference was caused by fees applied either by the receiving bank or 
its intermediary. Again, thats not something Santander had any control over, but I agree it 
shouldve notified Mr P further fees may apply. 
Santander has offered Mr P £75 to apologise that it didnt mention other potential fees that 
may have been deducted. Im satisfied thats a fair award, so Im not telling Santander to 
increase the award. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P but as Im satisfied Santander has 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any 
further action or increase the settlement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman