DRN-4119413
The complaint
Mr W complains he was unable to use his debit card on his Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money account. 
What happened
Mr W had a transaction blocked in April 2022. Mr W was on holiday at the time and says he 
cut his holiday short and returned home because he couldnt use his debit card. He was also 
upset that he tried to purchase a birthday present for a family member, but his transaction 
was again blocked  and then the item was sold out. 
Mr W was also unhappy about how Virgin Money handled the calls he had with them about 
what had happened and that they wouldnt allow him to withdraw the full balance he held 
with them in cash, so he could close his accounts. 
Mr W complained to Virgin Money. They said they were sorry for the poor service Mr W had 
received. That he wasnt contacted about the blocked transaction, and he had trouble getting 
through to them over the weekend. Virgin Money offered Mr W £250 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint. She said, in summary, she agreed Virgin 
Money should have contacted Mr W about the blocked transaction and this had caused him 
inconvenience. But she noted Mr W couldve called Virgin Money sooner than he did and 
she didnt think they were responsible for his decision to cut his holiday short. She thought 
Virgin Money had acted fairly to resolve things. 
Mr W didnt agree with the Investigators findings. He said he was unhappy he hadnt been 
offered compensation for having to cut his holiday short or being unable to purchase the 
birthday present he wanted to. He also said hed had further problems with transactions 
being blocked since this complaint was made. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my findings again here and they form part of this 
decision. 
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks have fraud prevention measures in place. These are designed to protect 
customers and the bank. Its for financial businesses to decide how their fraud prevention 
measures operate and which transactions will be subject to further checks. 
Virgin Moneys fraud prevention system flagged Mr Ws online payment on 30 April 2022.   
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account, it sets out the circumstances in which 
transactions can be blocked by the bank  and Im satisfied the transaction attempted by Mr 
W fell into one of those listed circumstances. So, Im satisfied Virgin Money didnt make a 
mistake in blocking this transaction. 
Virgin Money said in their final response that they didnt contact Mr W about this. They also 
apologised for the waiting times Mr W had experienced over the weekend when he was 
trying to call them. Mr W said because he wasnt able to get through to Virgin Money he was 
forced to cut his holiday short and couldnt buy a birthday present for his family member. 
However, I can see that Mr W has other accounts with debit cards also held with Virgin 
Money and he had online banking access  so I dont think Mr W was completely without 
access to the money in the affected account. So I think the £250 Virgin Money offered in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused is fair. 
Mr W was able to speak to Virgin Money on 2 May 2022. During this call his card was 
unblocked. But he said he had further problems using it the following weekend. Virgin Money 
said these were declined because the card had reached its contactless limit and required 
PIN entry. We asked Virgin Money to provide evidence showing the reason for the declined 
transactions over that weekend. But to date  and despite repeated requests over an 
extended period of time - this evidence has not been provided.  Mr W told Virgin Money in a 
phone call; he had attempted to enter the PIN at this time but the card still wouldnt work but 
Virgin Money said they had no record of the PIN attempts. As Virgin Money havent provided 
any evidence of these transactions, I dont know why they were declined and I cant be sure 
Virgin Money hasnt made a mistake. 
On 10 May 2022, Mr W used his online banking to report this card as damaged and a new 
one was issued. Further declined transactions took place in July 2022, Virgin Moneys 
provided evidence to show these were declined because the card wasnt activated. We 
asked Virgin Money to explain this in more detail because this card had been issued in May 
2022 but I cant see that Mr W reported any issues using it prior to July 2022  so it seems it 
had been used successfully before being declined in July. But again, despite repeated 
requests Virgin Money hasnt provided any further information about these transactions. So 
as Virgin Money hasnt provided clarification, I dont know why these transactions were 
declined and I again cant be satisfied Virgin Money hasnt made a mistake. 
So I think Virgin Money should pay Mr W a further £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by these failed transactions in May and July 2022.
Following these problems Mr W told Virgin Money he wished to close all his accounts and 
withdraw the total balance in cash. Virgin Money said, because of the amount of money in 
the accounts  several hundreds of thousands - they wouldnt be able to do this in one 
transaction. They suggested Mr W transfer the money online or visit a branch where he 
could take out up to £25,000 at a time in cash. I dont think its unreasonable for the bank to 
refuse to make Mr Ws full balance available in cash given the significant amount of money 
involved and their safety concerns about doing so. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say he agreed but since he had brought the complaint hed had further 
problems with Virgin Money, which hed made a further complaint about. And he was 
unhappy Virgin Money had contacted him, after our involvement, to ask him to accept their 
original offer. He felt this amounted to harassment. 
Virgin Money accepted my provisional findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says hes had further problems with Virgin Money which hes complained about. I can 
see hes provided an acknowledgement from Virgin Money of a further complaint. The rules 
only allow me to address the issues above. If Mr W is unhappy about later matters which 
he's not complained to Virgin Money about, then he can do so and ask us to look into things. 
If there are other issues Mr W has complained about which don't form part of this complaint, 
then potentially that could be a new issue we consider separately. 
Mr W has also provided correspondence he received from Virgin Money about the offer they 
originally made in their final response letter. He says he felt harassed by Virgin Money to 
accept it, despite referring his complaint to our service. But I dont think its unreasonable for 
Virgin Money to contact Mr W to remind him the offer is open to his acceptance. Based on 
the content of the letter, it looks like Virgin Money wrote to Mr W twice in several months 
about the offer after the final response  so I dont agree that this or the letter itself amounts 
to them contacting him unreasonably. 
As I dont think the information provided by Mr W changes things and Virgin Money accepted 
my provisional findings, I still find Virgin Money should pay Mr W a further £150 to recognise 
the further issues he had using his debit card in May and July 2022.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money have already made an offer of £250 to resolve 
this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I require them to pay Mr W a further £150 for 
the other problems experienced in using his debit card.  
My decision is Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr W a total of 
£400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman