DRN-3640187
The complaint
Mr D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022, where I set out the background 
to this complaint and explained why I had reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator. 
The key parts of my provisional decision are below;
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here. In summary Likely loans lent Mr D one loan in March 2020. The loan was for £5,000
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £243.55.
When this complaint was looked at by our adjudicator, he didnt think Likely loans had done
anything wrong, but Mr D disagreed, he said he was reliant on credit and that had Likely
Loans carried out proportionate checks it would have seen this and wouldnt have lent to
him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Likely Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to
ensure that Mr D would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way.
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences
Having looked at all the information available here, I dont think Likely loans did enough
before agreeing to lend to Mr D and had it taken its checks further, it would have seen Mr D
couldnt afford the loan over the entire term.
Likely loans said it carried out a credit search but has been unable to provide the results of
its search at the time it lent. It says it used Mr Ds more recent credit data to respond to the
complaint. The results of the credit data it has used showed that Mr D was due to pay
around £824.55 towards his credit commitments, this included a bank loan, credit cards and
the repayment for this loan.
Mr D declared £2,334.65 as his income and Likely loans has said after carrying out further
checks through a verification tool, it found that Mr Ds income was around £2,130 which was
what it based its lending decision on. Mr D declared his housing costs as £450 but didnt
declare his living expenses and so Likely loans said it used average national figures and
took into account £503.40 for his living costs. Based on these calculations, Mr D would have
been left with a disposable income of around £350.
However, I dont think Likely Loans sufficiently reacted to the results of his checks, the
checks show that Mr D would be paying a significant portion (£824.55) of his monthly income
(£2,130) towards unsecured and debt. Theres an argument to say based on Mr Ds credit
repayments, Likely Loans shouldnt have lent. At least, I think that should have prompted
Likely Loans to take its checks further and specifically understand Mr Ds living expenses
and gain a better understanding of his financial circumstances.
Had it done that, I think it would have found that Mr D had taken out another unsecured loan
a month before this loan and was due to repay around £225 a month towards that loan.
Adding this to his confirmed credit commitments, Mr D would have been left with less
disposable income and there was a significant risk that hed struggle to repay the loan over
the term.
In those circumstances, Likely Loans shouldnt have lent, and I think it needs to put things
right.
The deadline to respond has now passed and neither party has provided further comments 
or evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the complaint again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. Likely Loans needs to pit things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Likely Loans should;
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
Treat any payments Mr D made as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000;
If this results in overpayments, add interest of 8% simple a year on any
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
If after reworking the account theres still outstanding balance, Likely Loans should
agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr D;
remove any negative information about loan from Mr Ds credit file once Mr D has
repaid the capital borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely Loans must
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and 
direct Oakbrook Finance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman