DRN-3216705
The complaint
Mr F complains he was unable to place a sell shares on IG Markets Limited platform and 
when he did manage to sell the shares on the platform the price had fallen.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr F purchased three shares in a business using the IG on-line platform. 
The next day Mr F attempted to sell the three shares but a message on the platform told him 
to call the IG trading desk. Mr F did this and during the telephone call IG confirmed the 
platform had been unavailable and offered Mr F compensation based on an earlier share 
price. Mr F didnt accept this and when IG told him the platform was available Mr F sold the 
shares during the call at a lower price than IG offered.
Mr F complained to IG that the delays in trading caused him a financial loss. IG provided a 
final response to Mr F on 7 May 2021 and offered him the sum of £536.12, which is an 
amount they thought covered the financial loss. Mr F rejected this amount and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that IGs offer to pay Mr F £536.12 to 
cover Mr Fs loss was a reasonable one. However, our Investigator thought that IG should 
pay Mr F 8% simple interest on the £536.12 from the date the loss was incurred until the 
date of settlement. And that IG should pay Mr F £150 for the amount of time he spent on 
telephone calls and communication with IG about recovering his losses over a four-month 
period.
Mr F accepted the conclusions of the Investigator, but IG did not. IG said that it didnt feel it 
was fair and reasonable for it to pay interest from the date of the loss to the settlement date. 
IG said it was unfair that Mr F would benefit from declining their offer and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was unable to trade the shares hed purchased the previous day. IG have confirmed 
there was a platform outage on 28 January between 14:40 and15:30. In the telephone call 
with IG on 28 January, Mr F says he called IG at around 14:45 after being directed to do so 
by a message on the platform when he tried to trade. He also said hed been on the 
telephone to IG for over an hour before he was transferred. When Mr F spoke with IG it told 
him the issue with the platform had been resolved by 15:30. IG said he could have traded 
after this point using the platform. Mr F said he was following the instructions given to him on 
the platform and had been holding to speak with someone from IG. He said he was unable 
to trade while he was holding. When IG confirmed the platform was available Mr F competed 
the sale of the shares while on the call.
IG accept the platform was unavailable between 14:40 and 15:30. It seems reasonable that 
Mr F followed the instructions to contact IG by telephone to complete his trade. Although I 
cant say exactly when Mr F called IG or how long he was held on the call, it is likely he 
called shortly after 14:45. He says he held for over an hour before speaking with IG about 
the trade. IG record Mr F spoke with it at 16:05, so Mr Fs recollections of events are given 
some weight. I therefore think its likely Mr F was waiting to place his trade, or to clarify what 
was happening with his trade, for well over an hour.
IG say that Mr F could have placed the trade earlier than he did because the platform was 
available after 15:30. However, I consider this isnt a reasonable view to take. Mr F had 
called IG, as instructed, and although IG told him on the call the platform was now working 
again, I dont think its fair to conclude he would have known he could have traded earlier 
than he did.
Mr F is also upset that he could have sold his shares at a higher price if the platform had 
been working. However, the shares Mr F was trading were suspended twice during the day 
between 14:39 and 15:08. So, although Mr F says he would have achieved a much higher 
price than he eventually did, I consider it too speculative for me to say he would have 
achieved the share price he says he would have. This is particularly less likely as the market 
for these shares was volatile for most of the day, and trading was suspended for some time
IG offered to pay Mr F the sum of £536.12. This was based on the actual loss Mr F made on 
the sale of his three shares between the price he paid for them, and the price he obtained for 
them at 16:24 on 28 January. Ive considered IGs offer in its final response and Im satisfied 
it was a fair and reasonable one, but only in part. The offer didnt take into account Mr F 
spent well over an hour on the telephone to IG on 28 January trying to trade. And, that he 
spent a further 20 minutes on the telephone the following day in an attempt to resolve the 
issue. 
Im satisfied that in following the instructions to call IG, Mr F wasnt aware the platform 
reopened at 15:30, and he wasnt reasonably aware he could have been trading earlier than 
he did. Its quite clear from Mr Fs conversation with IG on 28 January that this matter added 
to his distress and inconvenience. And that this should be recognised in additional to IG 
paying Mr F £536.12 for the financial loss he made. So, I will be asking IG to pay Mr F the 
sum of £150 to remedy this.
Ive thought carefully about IGs comment that it shouldnt have to pay Mr F interest on the 
£536.12 from 28 January 2021 to the date of settlement. I appreciate IG says Mr F shouldnt 
be paid interest as he is in a better position than if hed accepted the payment in May 2021. 
That may be the case, but Mr F wasnt happy with the offer at the time and he was entitled to 
bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And Mr F has been without the 
£536.12 from 28 January 2021. So, it seems reasonable that IG should recognise hes been 
deprived of this amount since 28 January. And I think its fair and reasonable that IG should 
add 8% pa simple interest from 28 January 2021 to the date of settlement to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and IG Markets Limited should:
Pay Mr F £536.12 to cover the losses he made on his sale of the three shares
Add 8% pa simple interest* to £536.12 from 28 January 2021 to the settlement date
Pay Mr F the sum of £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced.*If IG Markets Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman