DRN-2554824
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt agree to port his mortgage to a new property. 
He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with HSBC, in joint names with his ex-partner. In February 2020 he 
contacted HSBC as he wanted to port the lifetime tracker rate (which then had a rate of 
0.33%) to a new property. Mr M says he provided information when requested, yet HSBC 
kept requesting further information. He says HSBC kept moving the goalposts about what it 
required to evidence his income. Because of this, he bought the new property in July 2020 
without a mortgage offer. Mr M says HSBC then told him he couldnt port the rate to a 
property he already owns.
Mr M says he cashed investments of about £50,000 to fund the purchase. He says he has a 
financial loss as he expects the value of these investments to increase by about £50,000 
more than the cost of the mortgage over the remaining seven years term.
Our investigator said HSBC was entitled to ask for information to assess Mr Ms application 
and was consistent throughout about the information it needed. Mr M didnt provide the 
information or didnt provide it in the requested format. HSBC doesnt port products to 
properties that are already owned by the customer, so once Mr M bought the property the 
porting application didnt proceed. 
Mr M didnt agree, saying the investigator hadnt addressed his complaint. Mr M said he 
wasnt told he couldnt port if hed already bought the property. And he said HSBCs failure to 
follow its own policy and procedure, changes in its policy and procedure and rejection of his 
application all took place before his purchase completed. He said he had ongoing losses and 
could provide updated information on the amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had a joint mortgage with HSBC with a lifetime tracker rate. Mr M and his partner were 
separated and their property was to be sold. Mr M contacted HSBC in February 2020. He 
wanted to port the interest rate product to a new mortgage in his sole name on a property he 
intended to buy. 
HSBC issued a decision in principle (DIP). A decision in principle isnt binding as its subject 
to the lender making checks. But in any case, Mr Ms DIP was a decline to lend due to 
affordability. So I dont think HSBC misled him that hed certainly be offered a mortgage.
Although HSBC assessed the mortgage Mr M requested as unaffordable, it looked into 
whether it could port Mr Ms mortgage under the transitional arrangements. In summary, 
these provisions allow lenders to offer or vary a mortgage without meeting the regulators 
stringent affordability requirements in certain limited circumstances, if the proposed change 
is in the borrowers best interests. I should say that this doesnt mean HSBC cant carry out 
an affordability assessment. And an affordability assessment can fairly form part of an 
assessment about whether lending is in a customers best interests. 
Mr Ms income was from his business. HSBCs records show it asked for two years finalised 
accounts signed by an accountant and a letter from his accountant with projected earnings 
for the current year. It said it needed this before an appointment with an adviser could be 
booked.
HSBC issued another DIP in April 2020. This said Mr M could borrow up to £130,000 based 
on the information hed provided. The DIP said this was an indication of what he could 
borrow and not an offer and HSBC would need to carry out a full credit assessment. Again, I 
dont think HSBC misled Mr M that it would certainly offer him a mortgage.
HSBCs records say that the accounts Mr M uploaded were unaudited. As the accounts 
werent signed by the accountant, as HSBC had requested in February, HSBC asked for a 
letter from Mr Ms accountant to support the accounts. Also, Mr M hadnt provided a letter 
from his accountant with his projected earnings for the current year. Despite not receiving 
the documents it had asked for in February, HSBC looked into whether it could port the 
mortgage under the transitional arrangements. 
In early May 2020 HSBC issued a mortgage illustration for a mortgage of about £50,000. 
This said it wasnt an obligation for HSBC to grant him a loan. The application failed 
affordability tests, and HSBC was concerned about information it received from a credit 
search. HSBC declined the application.
Mr M made a further application in June 2020. He was able to provide accounts for the year 
ended 31 May 2020. As these werent signed by an accountant HSBC asked for a letter from 
Mr Ms accountant to support the accounts. HSBC said Mr M needed to provide evidence 
that his business wasnt adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, as his HSBC 
business account suggested it had been. While Mr M says his business was doing well, 
HSBC wasnt comfortable with the documents he provided in support of this and asked for 
evidence in a different format. But at about this time point Mr M completed his property 
purchase and the porting application didnt proceed.
Did HSBC treat Mr M unfairly?
I dont think HSBC misled Mr M that it would offer a mortgage to him. In fact, it was 
consistent in raising concerns about affordability. HSBC considered whether it could offer a 
mortgage under the transitional arrangements. And it agreed to review its decline decisions if 
Mr M provided further documents. This meant the process continued for longer than if HSBC 
had simply declined to lend at the outset. But I think it was fair for HSBC to look into whether 
it could offer a mortgage to Mr M, despite its concerns about affordability. 
I dont think HSBC changed its requirements about the documents it needed Mr M to 
provide. At the outset, it asked for accounts signed by the accountants and projections for 
the current year. When Mr M didnt provide what it had asked for, HSBC suggested an 
alternative  such as a letter from his accountant. I think this was fair.
HSBC asked for additional information in mid-2020. It wanted to check that Mr Ms business 
hadnt been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, as the evidence HSBC had (the 
business account) suggested it had been. HSBC couldnt have known in February it would 
need this information, and I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to ask for it.HSBCs policy, like many other lenders, is not to port mortgages to properties that a 
customer already owns. While Im sorry that Mr M wasnt aware of this, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that HSBC misled him about this. Even if HSBC had told Mr M it 
wouldnt port his mortgage to a property he already owned, I dont think the outcome here 
would have been different. Mr M had until the end of August 2020 to port his mortgage (six 
months from the date his joint mortgage was repaid). Given his previous applications had 
been declined, I dont think I can fairly find it likely that hed have been able to port his 
mortgage by then even if hed been able to delay his purchase while he made another 
application.
While Mr M says HSBC changed or failed to follow its own policy and procedures the 
available evidence doesnt support this. 
HSBC assessed affordability based on Mr Ms income. Mr M disagrees with this approach. 
He says the mortgage was affordable as he had funds available to repay it, as evidenced by 
him being able to complete his purchase without a mortgage. But while Mr M had funds 
available at that time he might have used them for other purposes  indeed he intended to 
invest them. I think HSBC is entitled to assess the application using its own lending criteria. 
I can understand why Mr M wanted to port his interest rate  its unlikely hell find a better or 
similar rate on offer now, and he expected to make a return by investing the money. But I 
need to consider whether HSBC treated Mr M fairly when it assessed his porting application 
and I think it did. It follows that I wont require HSBC to pay compensation to Mr M. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman