DRN-3431586
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T booked a holiday abroad in January 2020. He arranged his travel independently,
booking flights through an airline and hotel accommodation through an online booking agent.
He was due to travel between 7 and 12 August 2020.
However, in mid-July 2020, Mr Ts airline cancelled both his outbound and inbound flights.
Mr T tried to arrange new flights, but he says he wasnt able to do so. Therefore, he
cancelled his hotel booking. The booking agent initially told Mr T that the hotel would offer
him the option to rearrange his stay up until August 2021. However, it later told Mr T that this
option was no longer available to him, as the hotel booking was non-refundable. And while
Mr T made a chargeback claim for the booking, his bank told him the claim had been made
too late. Mr T made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of the hotel booking.
UKI turned down Mr Ts claim. Initially, it concluded that as the hotel had offered Mr T the
chance to rebook his stay, hed been able to recover his costs. Ultimately, it said that at the
time Mr T cancelled his hotel booking, there hadnt been any Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO) advice against travel to Mr Ts destination. And it said that
cancellation of a holiday because an airline cancelled a policyholders flights wasnt
something covered by the policy terms.
Mr T was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He accepted that thered been
no FCDO advice in place against travel to Mr Ts destination at the point the flights and
accommodation were cancelled. But he noted that the cancellation section of the policy
provided cover if a policyholder couldnt use their pre-booked accommodation because of a
natural disaster  including a medical epidemic or pandemic. In his view, Mr T had been
unable to make use of his hotel accommodation because of the Covid-19 pandemic. And he
was satisfied that Mr T had shown he couldnt recover his accommodation costs from
another source. So he recommended that UKI should pay Mr Ts claim, together with
interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr Ts claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ts policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether UKI handled his
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ts
contract with UKI. As Mr T was unable to travel to his destination, I think it was appropriate
for UKI to assess the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This states that UKI
will cover cancellation if its caused by one the following specific, listed events:
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious illness or injury of you, your travelling
companion, a close relative, a close business associate or anyone outside your home area
that you had planned to stay with.
2 Court cases and quarantine: you, your travelling companion or anyone outside your home
area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined or called for jury service or as a
witness in a court and a court official has refused to postpone it.
3 Unemployment: you or your travelling companion is made redundant, or have a self-
employed contract terminated early, and is registered for a Jobseekers Agreement with the
Department for Work and Pensions.
4 Armed forces and emergency services: As a member of the British Armed Forces or
Emergency Services, you or your travelling companion has authorised leave cancelled due
to an unexpected emergency.
5 Fire, storm or flood: you or your travelling companion has to stay at their home as a result
of it being seriously damaged by fire storm, flood or due to a burglary in the seven days
before departure on your trip.
6 Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the seven
days before your departure on your trip.
7 Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your departure
on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8 FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel or All but
essential travel to your intended destination comes into force after the start date or renewal
date of this insurance, or the date
9 Natural disaster: You are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation due
to the immediately surrounding area being adversely affected by natural disaster.
Theres no dispute that at the time Mr Ts airline cancelled his flights, there was no FCDO
advice against travel to his destination. Our investigator thought that Mr Ts claim should be
covered by the natural disaster clause, as he felt that Covid-19 had prevented Mr T from
using his pre-booked accommodation.
However, in order for me to fairly find that UKI should pay Mr Ts claim under the natural
disaster clause, Id need to be satisfied that it was the pandemic which led to Mr T being
unable to use his booked accommodation and the decision to cancel his hotel stay. And
based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think this was the case for reasons Ill go on to
explore.
When Mr T brought his complaint to us, he told us that his claim was for hotel costs that hed
incurred because hed been unable to stay at the hotel. Thats because his airline had
cancelled his flights and no other flights were available. In a letter dated 2 February 2021, Mr
T told us that his airline had stopped all flights to his destination during the summer. He said
hed tried his best to find alternative flights, but due to a reduction in services, there were no
alternative flights available on the applicable dates. This also seems to be in line with UKIs
summary of Mr Ts complaint, in which it states that Mr T was unable to travel because his
airline had cancelled his flights and there were no more flights available on his date of return.
So it seems to me that the reason Mr T wasnt able to travel as hed planned was because
the airline had cancelled his original flights and he wasnt able to find alternative flights which
corresponded with his hotel stay dates. Given Mr Ts said he looked for alternative flights, it
seems to me that if hed been able to find appropriate replacement flights, hed still most
likely have stayed in the hotel as planned. Id add too that the evidence suggests that the
hotel was open at the time Mr T was due to stay there  it hadnt been closed as a result of
Covid-19. I dont think then that I can fairly find that Mr T cancelled his trip because of a
natural disaster.Cancellation of flights by an airline isnt something covered by the cancellation section of Mr
Ts policy. And in my experience, most if not all insurance policies dont cover cancellation
due to cancellation of flights by an airline. I appreciate Mr T says his father was told by UKI
some years earlier that this particular situation would be covered by UKI travel insurance
policies where independent flight and accommodation bookings had been made. However, I
think UKI has clearly set out the insured events it covers. And theres no suggestion that UKI
gave Mr T himself misleading information about the policy cover before he took it out.
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out a list of things it specifically excludes from
cover. One of these says:
Youre not covered for any actions or failure by your transport operator or their agents or a 
conference organiser.
In my view, Mr Ts airlines action in cancelling his flights was the underlying reason why he
didnt travel and stay in the hotel as planned. So not only is Mr Ts claim not covered by the
terms of his policy, but I also think its specifically excluded by the contract terms.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr Ts position because I appreciate hes lost money
through no fault of his own, I currently dont think it was unfair for UKI to turn down his claim.
And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I could direct UKI to pay Mr Ts
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any additional information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with my provisional findings on Mr Ts behalf. In summary, 
he felt the investigator had reached the correct outcome, as he considered that the holiday 
had been cancelled due to a natural disaster. He said that at the time the flights were 
cancelled, Covid-19 was affecting the whole world and many people were afraid of travelling. 
The airline industry had been crippled and flights were being cancelled all over the world. 
Therefore, he considered that the flight had undoubtedly been cancelled as the result of a 
natural disaster which had led to Mr T being unable to use his pre-booked accommodation. 
And accordingly, he felt the claim was covered by the cancellation section of the policy. 
Mr Ts representative also considered there was ambiguity in my provisional findings and 
that any fair minded, independent person would see the validity in his argument. He was 
also unhappy with my comments regarding previous advice hed been given about cover by 
UKI, as he said he undertook these types of enquiries on Mr Ts behalf, as his carer and 
mentor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T, I still think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to apologise to Mr T as I understand he felt my findings regarding his fathers 
call to UKI were flippant. This wasnt my intention. However, whilst I appreciate Mr Ts father 
regularly makes enquiries on Mr Ts behalf, I dont think I could fairly find that information 
which Mr T suggested had been given some years earlier means that Mr Ts claim should be 
paid. I say that because as Ive set out above, I think UKI has clearly set out the insured events it covers in the contract terms. And even if UKI did wrongly indicate to Mr Ts father 
that flight cancellations would give rise to a valid cancellation claim, I dont think I could 
reasonably conclude that this caused Mr T to lose out. Thats because in my experience, 
most travel policies available on the market wouldnt provide cancellation cover because of 
an airlines decision to cancel a flight. So I dont think Mr T couldve found an alternative 
policy which did cover this situation even if his father had been correctly advised about the 
extent of cancellation cover.
Next, its clear that Mr Ts representative feels strongly that the reason Mr Ts holiday had to 
be cancelled was because of a natural disaster. I entirely agree that the pandemic itself was 
a natural disaster, which did have an unprecedented impact on the travel industry and on 
people across the world. But in order for Mr Ts claim to be covered by the natural disaster 
provision, Id need to be satisfied that it was the natural disaster which prevented Mr T from 
using his pre-booked accommodation. And based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think 
this was the case. Thats because as I set out in my provisional decision, the hotel appears 
to have been open for visitors. And the FCDO wasnt advising against travel to Mr Ts 
destination as a result of the pandemic. This suggests that at the relevant time, a natural 
disaster wasnt affecting the area immediately surrounding the hotel to the extent that Mr T 
couldnt have made use of the accommodation if hed been able to find alternative flights and 
travel. This means then that I dont think I could fairly say that a natural disaster in the 
immediate area around the hotel caused Mr T to cancel the trip. So it seems most likely to 
me that had the airline not cancelled the flights, Mr T couldve made use of his pre-booked 
accommodation and travelled as planned. 
On this basis then, I still think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr Ts claim 
didnt fall within the scope of cancellation cover.
The contract terms make it clear that UKI specifically excludes cancellation claims which are 
down to an airlines actions. And in the circumstances of this complaint, I think the evidence 
suggests that but for Mr Ts airlines actions, he would have travelled as planned. So I still 
find that not only was Mr Ts claim not covered by the cancellation section of the policy, it 
was specifically excluded too.
Overall, whilst I do sympathise with Mr Ts position, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable 
for UKI to turn down his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman