DRN-2096560
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to refund a debit made on his credit 
card account in respect of hire car charges.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr N hired a car while abroad. This had been arranged by the airline and the 
car was supplied by a company I will call G. Mr N had paid for car hire insurance in advance 
and when collecting the car, he says he told the receptionist that he didnt need excess 
insurance. Mr N paid a deposit which he says he was told was refundable. However, when 
returning the car he discovered that only the fuel deposit was refunded and the balance was 
for insurance.  
Mr N contacted BoS and it made a chargeback claim, but this was challenged by G and the 
sum was re-debited to Mr Ns account. Mr N didnt agree and said that the transaction was 
covered by an EU Directive which required the contract terms should be in intelligible 
language. He said the document wasnt in English and he had been misled about all the 
charges being refundable. He also pointed out the original document didnt have the key 
parts translated into English unlike the version sent by G to BoS.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted that Mr N had signed the 
contract agreeing to pay for cover and even though this was not in English he had agreed to 
the terms. 
She noted the contract showed that the fee he was charged was made up of four different 
items, with "Mega Relax Cover" being written in English. She thought the presence of 
multiple items, and one of those items being named as a "cover" would have indicated that 
the total amount charged wasn't simply one refundable deposit. 
The chargeback had been unsuccessful and she didnt consider there was sufficient 
evidence to suggest BoS consider a claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr 
N disagreed and said decisions had been made on false documents. He believed he had 
been scammed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr N and I understand his frustration, but I dont consider I can 
uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesn't mean there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered by the card provider, in 
this case MasterCard, not BoS. The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it puts a 
request to the merchant's bank. But there are no guarantees the consumers bank will be 
able to recover the money through chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the 
claim is justified. 
BoS made a claim on behalf of Mr N, but G challenged this and said Mr N had signed the 
agreement. It sent a copy. It added a translation of the key words. While I appreciate the 
bank assumed these were on the original, I think it likely they were added to aid BoS. In any 
event as Gs bank rejected the claim there was little BoS could do to pursue it further.
The only other option was to pursue a claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
That requires there to have been a either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I cannot 
say that there was a breach of contract as Mr N was provided with the cover for which he 
had signed. Mr N has argued that he was told that all the sum on the contract was 
refundable. The difficulty is that he is unable to provide any supporting evidence. I realise 
this is difficult for him to do, but for me to require BoS to pay money to him I have to be able 
to show he was misled and I dont consider I can do that on the information available to me.
The contract was intelligible, although not in a language which Mr N understood. That said, 
as our investigator has pointed out, it itemised four sums, one of which was an airport 
charge. Another said it was cover in English, one was a nil charge and the other was super 
cover, not written in English.  I can appreciate the stress while picking up a car at a foreign 
airport, but I consider it was up to Mr N to be satisfied with what he was signing and if it was 
unclear to refuse.
I have looked at the reviews of G as suggested by Mr N and I can see they are not great, but 
I have to decide this complaint on the facts of Mr Ns situation and regrettably I am unable to 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman