DRN-2101785
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan by Phoenix Life Limited 
(trading as Sun Life).
What happened
Mr H took out the plan on a non-advised basis in 2010. It provided him with life cover of 
£1,200, after an initial two-year period, for a monthly premium of £17. In 2020 he complained 
to Sun Life that hed now paid far more in premiums than would be paid out in the event of 
his death. He felt this was very unfair as he was now in very poor health, receiving pension 
credit and finding it very difficult to afford the premiums. But stopping payment would mean 
hed effectively lost everything hed paid towards the plan. 
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about the sale of the plan as it felt it had met the 
requirements of a non-advised sale. It said it had provided Mr H with clear information about 
the operation of the plan from which he was able to make an informed decision on whether 
to proceed. Sun Life did, however, acknowledge that it had taken too long to respond to the 
complaint and offered Mr H £50 in recognition of this. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Sun Life. He felt the information provided to Mr H had been clear and had 
drawn his attention to the important terms of the plan. The investigator also didnt feel that 
the plan had been misleadingly presented as a plan that would meet all funeral expenses. 
Rather, it was clear that it was intended to help with these costs. 
The investigator explained that he understood Mr Hs concerns, but that as the plan had 
been operated in accordance with its terms, he wasnt able to conclude that Sun Life had 
acted incorrectly  other than the acknowledged delay in looking into the complaint, for 
which the investigator thought £50 was a fair offer.  
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He engaged a representative to put forward his 
additional concerns. She said, on his behalf:
The contract was unfair because Mr H had paid more in premiums than will be paid 
out.
He was therefore being forced by Sun Life to pay additional premiums for no return.
The contract shouldnt be weighted against the customer, trapping them into paying 
additional premiums to their detriment and with no risk to the insurer.
Sun Life had refused to cooperate, and the only solution was for it to pay out the 
plans sum assured along with additional compensation.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to say that I do understand Mr Hs concerns and why hes so frustrated with the 
situation. Clearly this is a very difficult time for him. And I can see why the need to continue 
paying premiums to support a sum assured thats now much less than the total of premiums 
hes already paid might seem inappropriate.  
But having looked closely at the way the plan operates and the information that wouldve 
been provided to Mr H at the outset, Im unable to conclude that Sun Life has acted 
incorrectly. As this was a non-advised sale  meaning that Sun Life didnt gather 
information about Mr Hs needs and circumstances in order to make a personalised 
recommendation  it was only required to ensure that he had clear information about the 
plan so he could make an informed decision.
Looking at the documentation I think it was clear how the plan operated. It was noted in the 
significant exclusions and limitations section that if premiums were stopped for any reason 
the plan would be cancelled without any money being given back. And the terms explained 
that depending on how long you live, the total premiums paid may be greater than the cash 
sum payable on death. 
But that said, I dont think Mr Hs representatives is particularly suggesting that Sun Life 
operated the plan incorrectly. Her concern is more with the overall fairness of the 
proposition. 
In that respect Id say firstly that I think that how a product is explained at the outset is an 
important aspect of the overall fairness. But, as noted, I dont think there was anything wrong 
with how the plan, and particularly its limitations, were described. 
But from a more general perspective, Im satisfied Sun Life acted fairly and reasonably  
which are the criteria on which Im required to consider a complaint. Had Mr H died in the 
early years of the plan (but after the first two years) Sun Life wouldve paid out more than 
hed paid in. But, equally, there was always a risk that Mr H might need to continue paying 
premiums to a point where hed paid more than the sum assured. That sort of risk is part of 
the very nature of insurance.
I dont think Sun Life can now reasonably be expected to pay out the sum assured to Mr H 
simply because he has paid more in premiums than the sum assured. While Sun Life might 
be seen to be profiting from Mr H  his representative has made the point that Mr H is 
trapped and paying ongoing premiums for no return  it must be remembered than Mr H is 
not Sun Lifes only customer. Sun Life, as with other insurers, will be making pay-outs on 
many policies where it hasnt received as much in premiums  so its not accurate to say that 
there is no ongoing risk to it. 
As Ive said, this is a difficult situation for Mr H, but that doesnt necessarily mean Sun Life 
has done anything wrong. And if it hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly  and I dont think it 
has  Im unable to direct it to do anymore in respect of Mr Hs plan. 
For completeness, I should say that I think the £50 Sun Life has offered for the delay in 
responding to the complaint is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman