DRN-4451254
The complaint
Miss S believes Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway acted irresponsibly by agreeing 
a hire purchase agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In May 2015, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. She paid a deposit of £200, and the agreement was for £12,250 over 61 months; 
with 60 monthly payments of £299.98 and a final payment of £404.98. Miss S voluntarily 
terminated the agreement on 27 March 2018. She returned the car and, as she had paid 
£9,907.34, more than 50% of the amount owing under the agreement, she wasnt required to 
make any further payments.
Miss S has complained that Moneyway didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said that they didnt carry out appropriate checks  she was continually in her 
overdraft and reliant upon short-term high-interest loans, otherwise known as payday loans. 
She also thinks that, because shed been declined by other, lower interest, lenders, 
Moneyway capitalised on her situation by providing a high interest loan.
Moneyway didnt respond to Miss Ss complaint, as they thought she had waited too long 
before she complained. Miss S wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation. An ombudsman reviewed the matter and issued a final decision saying this 
was something we had the jurisdiction to consider, so the matter was passed to an 
investigator to consider the complaint Miss S had made.
Our investigator didnt think the checks Moneyway had done were adequate, and they 
thought Moneyway shouldve taken further steps to verify Miss Ss income and committed 
expenses. They also thought that, had Moneyway done this, it wouldve shown the finance 
wasnt affordable for Miss S. So, they thought Moneyway needed to do something to put 
things right.
So, our investigator thought Moneyway should refund the deposit Miss S paid, as well as 
any payments shed made, over and above the amount of money she borrowed, plus 
statutory interest.
Moneyway initially didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, because Miss S hadnt 
paid more than the amount she borrowed when the agreement was terminated, then she 
wasnt due a refund of the deposit she paid. However, they subsequently agreed to refund 
this amount.
Miss S initially agreed with the investigator, but subsequently changed her mind. She wasnt 
happy that the interest was front loaded and that she paid over £9,000, only to have nothing 
to show from it. She also said that she was under huge financial pressure when she had the 
loan, and Moneyway refused to allow her to defer any payments while she was struggling. 
And she thought Moneyway should refund the interest she was charged on the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2023, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneyway complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneyway make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneyway didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Ss 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
In this instance, by accepting the investigators view, Moneyway agree they didnt make a 
fair lending decision, and that they shouldnt have approved the finance for Miss S. Miss S 
also agrees this is the case, but she doesnt agree with the remedy recommended by the 
investigator. As such, Im satisfied I dont need to consider the merits of the issue within my 
decision, Instead, Ill focus on what I think Moneyway should do to put things right.
In circumstances where we dont think the finance agreement shouldve been approved, and 
where its been fully repaid, its our approach to say that the business should refund all 
payments made over and above the amount borrowed. This is to reflect the fact that the 
customer has possession of the car but, as the finance agreement should never have been 
approved, no interest or fees shouldve been charged.
While this is what the investigator has recommended, the above circumstances arent 
applicable to Miss S. Shes not in possession of the car, and shes still paid interest and fees 
on an agreement that shouldnt have been approved. So, in these circumstances, I think the 
fair approach is that Moneyway refund any payments over and above what would be 
considered fair usage. This reflects the fact that Miss S had use of the car while it was in her 
possession, so should pay for this usage; but a portion of the interest and fees are refunded 
to her, reflecting that the agreement should never have been approved in the first place.
Theres no set formula for calculating fair usage. And things such as the deposit, payments, 
interest, and mileage done are all factors that need to be taken into consideration. Ive 
reviewed the publicly available MOT information for the car supplied to Miss S and seen that 
the car did less than 10,000 miles in the period November 2015 to May 2018  the car was 
in Miss Ss possession from May 2015 to May 2018. So, Im satisfied that Miss S used the 
car for substantially less than average mileage. As such, and having reviewed all the facts 
and circumstances, Im satisfied that a reasonable fair usage figure is £200 a month. And 
Moneyway should refund anything Miss S has paid over and above this amount.
Therefore, my provisional view is that, if they havent already done so, Moneyway should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Ss credit file;
refund all payments Miss S paid, less £200 a month for fair usage, calculated from 
when Miss S was supplied with the car, to when the car was returned following 
voluntary termination;refund the £200 deposit Miss S paid, as this wouldnt have been payable if the 
agreement hadnt been approved; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Miss S 
made the payments to the date of the refund.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyway to take off tax from this interest. Moneyway 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Responses
Moneyway didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Miss S agreed with my provisional decision. However, she said that, due to a number plate 
change on the car, the MOT mileage record wasnt correct. She said she had the car from 
May 2015 to May 2018, during which she did a total of 27,983 miles  less than 10,000 miles 
a year, not less than 10,000 miles overall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Moneyway havent said anything to the contrary, Im taking their lack of comments to 
mean they dont object to my provisional decision.
Ive considered Miss Ss comments about the milage. While she has done more miles than I 
originally believed, this is still below what could be expected as average mileage for the car. 
As such, Im satisfied this doesnt affect what I consider to be fair usage.
As the comments Ive received dont change my view, I see no compelling reason why I 
shouldnt now adopt my provisional view as my final decision. And Moneyway need to do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
For the reasons given, Moneyway should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Ss credit file;
refund all payments Miss S paid, less £200 a month for fair usage, calculated from 
when Miss S was supplied with the car, to when the car was returned following 
voluntary termination;
refund the £200 deposit Miss S paid, as this wouldnt have been payable if the 
agreement hadnt been approved; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Miss S 
made the payments to the date of the refund.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyway to take off tax from this interest. Moneyway 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc trading 
as Moneyway. And they are to follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman