DRN-3715797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about their claim being declined and about the service 
provided by AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) under their buildings and 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M noticed damage to their front garden wall in December 2021 and made a 
claim to AA under their insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M considered that the damage had 
been caused by a large engineering scheme which was being carried out near to their 
property. AA instructed a surveyor to conduct an inspection who visited the property at the 
end of January 2022. AA eventually declined the claim as it didnt consider that the damage 
was caused by an insured peril. It considered that the wall displayed historic damage and 
age-related wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy as they wanted AA to repair the damage, however AA 
maintained its position. Mr and Mrs M then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that the images and pre-work report from the contractor 
showed the wall to have signs of wear and tear. He noted that both the surveyor and 
contractor had said that they thought that the damage was due to a physical impact. Our 
investigators view to Mr and Mrs M recorded as follows You told me you didnt think this 
was the case because there are no impact marks on the wall or evidence like scratches or 
paint from a vehicle.
Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this 
decision. The key issue for me to consider is whether AA applied the terms and conditions of 
the policy in a fair and reasonable manner. The starting point is therefore the policy itself 
which forms part of the insurance contract.
The policy includes cover for the usual perils to include damage to parts of the property to 
include boundary walls due to collision or impact: A collision or impact involving:.. a vehicle, 
aircraft or other aerial deviceFalling trees, branches, lamp posts, telegraph poles, 
electricity pylons, poles or overhead cables
The policy also excludes cover for certain matters, including; - Loss or damage caused by 
wear and tear, deterioration, corrosion, rot, or similar causes.
The schedule for the policy purchased in 2021 shows that optional accidental damage cover 
to cover wider insurance perils was not taken out by Mr and Mrs M on this occasion.
Mr and Mrs M stated that theyd only noticed damage and cracking to the front garden wall 
after the piling work for the large engineering scheme was carried out. They said that they 
thought the damage had been caused by this work as theyd experienced severe vibrations 
inside their home when it was being carried. They said that the whole house was shaking. 
Mr and Mrs M said that the front wall was now cracked at the base, had moved and that the 
front gate would no longer shut. They considered that the wall had been left in an unsafe 
condition. They acknowledged that on previous occasions, the gate would be tight-fitting due 
to weather, but this was different.
In his telephone complaint to this service, Mr M said that hed waited for weeks to hear what 
AAs surveyor had to say about the matter. Hed also telephoned and e-mailed several 
times, with no response to his e-mails and felt that hed been fobbed off. He said that he 
eventually spoke to a claims handler and said theyd need to instruct an in-house surveyor. 
Mr M had therefore expected that a second physical inspection would take place, but this 
didnt happen. He thought that it was ridiculous that AA had declined the claim when the in-
house surveyor hadnt examined the structural integrity of the wall.
AA accepted a service element of the complaint. It agreed that there was a lengthy delay in 
obtaining full details from the initial surveyor. It wrote to Mr and Mrs M and apologised for the 
error and paid Mr and Mrs M £100 in recognition of its service failure.
On the main claim issue, AAs file notes indicate that in January 2021 it mentioned to Mr M 
that there wasnt a specific peril under which it could place this claim, but that he 
nevertheless wanted a surveyor to inspect the damage. AA confirmed that the decision had 
been made from consideration of the report and photographs of the surveyor who attended 
the property. It didnt consider the damage to the wall was caused by an insured peril. It said 
that the wall displayed historic damage and age-related wear and tear; Having looked at the 
images, damage to the wall is deterioration; grout falling out and moss/mold.
Ive carefully considered what the parties have said about this matter. Ive also considered 
the relevant reports, photographs, file notes and correspondence. Having considered all the 
information in the light of the terms and conditions of the policy, I cant say that AA has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in applying those terms and conditions. 
In the pre-work report of the contractors, Ive noted that there was at that time, evidence of 
separation and cracking to the garden wall. It refers for instance to 1.5mm separation to 
boundary wall to left-hand side elevation internal corner, and also to 1mm stepped crack to 
outside face to the right-hand side corner of the boundary wall.
In the report of the surveyor who attended the property, he said that the likely cause of the
damage was an impact to the corner of the wall which, unlike damage due to piling work, is 
an insured peril. Both Mr and Mrs M and AA discounted this assumption however and 
considered that there was no evidence of impact damage or scrapes which would lead to 
that assumption. I agree with the parties that there is no additional evidence to support the 
theory that there had been historical or more recent impact to the wall.
In conclusion and on the balance of probabilities, I dont consider that the damage to Mr and 
Mrs Ms front garden wall was caused by piling work as a part of the large engineering 
scheme. Its more likely that this was caused through wear and tear and the photographic 
evidence and pre-work report of the contractor indicate clear signs of deterioration. Even if 
the piling had been the cause of the damage however, I dont consider that this was an 
insured peril under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy.I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs M and I also 
appreciate that they noticed the damage at a difficult time for Mr M personally, however I 
cant say that AA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim in this instance. 
I do consider that there were failures in the service provided by AA and that the claim wasnt 
progressed in a satisfactory manner. I also consider that AA unfortunately raised 
expectations by agreeing to send a surveyor to inspect the damage despite damage by 
piling work not being an insured peril. Nevertheless, I cant say that AAs response to this 
element of the complaint was unfair or unreasonable. It apologised for its service failures 
and paid compensation of £100 which is in line with what wed expect for such delays.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I dont 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman