DRN-3092848
The complaint
Mr J complains about Monzo Bank Ltd and their failure to set his accounts withdrawal limit 
back to the agreed amount after hed requested a one-off limit increase.
What happened
Mr J held an account with Monzo. In February 2020, Mr J asked Monzo to set his daily cash 
withdrawal limit at £100 due to the gambling addiction he was suffering with at the time. 
Monzo agreed to this request and the £100 limit was set. But Mr J was still able to request 
one-off daily limit increases should he need urgent access to larger amounts of cash.
And Mr J did this in September 2020. But when Monzo reset the withdrawal limit, they reset 
it at £150 rather than the £100 that had been agreed in February 2020. Mr J made use of 
this additional £50 on several occasions between September 2020 and May 2021, using it to 
fund his gambling addiction. Mr J was unhappy Monzo had allowed him to do this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr J thought Monzos error had caused him to gamble over £1000 more than he wouldve 
been able to, had the correct withdrawal limit been place. He thought Monzo had been made 
reasonably aware of his gambling addiction and shouldve done more to ensure his limit was 
reset to the agreed amount. So, he thought Monzo should refund him the entire additional 
amount he was able to withdraw and gamble.
Monzo responded and upheld the complaint. They agreed theyd made an error when 
resetting the withdrawal limit at £150, rather than £100. And they calculated Mr J had been 
able to withdraw an additional £1,170 more than he wouldve been, had the limit been set 
correctly. But they also thought it was Mr Js own decision to make use of the additional limit. 
So, with this in mind, they offered to refund Mr J 50% of the additional amount hed 
withdrawn, totalling £585. Mr J remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised it was 
accepted by both parties that Monzo had made an error. But she thought the £585 Monzo 
offered was fair. She explained Monzo had made Mr J aware on several occasions the limit 
would be set back to £150 and shed seen no evidence to show Mr J had corrected this 
when he shouldve been reasonably aware it was incorrect. And she also noted Mr J didnt 
make Monzo aware of the error for over six months. So, she thought Monzos offer fairly 
recognised the fact more couldve been done by Mr J to mitigate the situation.
Mr J didnt agree. He didnt think our investigator had placed enough emphasis on the fact 
he was suffering from a gambling addiction. He explained at the time Monzo reset his 
withdrawal limit and made him aware it had been reset at £150, he paid no attention to the 
information provided as he was focused on pushing through the request as quickly as 
possible. Mr J also thought Monzo shouldve realised he was still suffering with the addiction 
due to the gambling transactions shown on his statements and this shouldve prompted them 
to do more. For these reasons, Mr J maintained his belief the full amount should be refunded 
to him. As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr J. I recognise Mr J was 
struggling with a gambling addiction at the time and hes been significantly financially 
impacted by this. I also appreciate Mr J took steps to limit his ability to gamble, and so 
protect himself financially, by setting a withdrawal limit with Monzo. And when he realised 
this hadnt been enforced correctly, I can understand why Mr J would be left unhappy and 
feel as though Monzo are to blame for part of the financial difficulty he now faces.
Monzo have already accepted they made an error when resetting the withdrawal limit. So, 
this isnt in dispute and I dont intend to discuss this any further. What is in dispute is the 
actions Monzo should take to put things right.
Monzo feel their offer of a refund totalling £585 is fair. But Mr J thinks Monzo should refund 
him the entire additional amount he was able to withdraw and gamble. So, my decision 
focuses whether I think the offer Monzo have made is fair. And in this situation, I think it is.
I dont dispute Mr Js point that, if the limit had been reduced to £100 as it shouldve been, 
he wouldnt have been able to withdraw the £1,170 from his account which he used to 
gamble. So, I understand why he thinks all of this should be refunded to him.
But having looked through Mr Js chats with Monzo when he asked them to increase his 
daily limit in September 2020, I can see Mr J was told twice the limit would be reduced back 
to £150 and I cant see that Mr J disputed this. 
And in October 2020, on two separate occasions Monzo again explained to Mr J his 
withdrawal limit would be reduced back to £150 the day after it had been increased on his 
request. Again, Mr J didnt dispute that. And in the first conversation in October, Ive seen Mr 
J himself stated Yeah 400 today back to 150 tomorrow which referred to the limits on the 
account.
So, I think Mr J had opportunities to mitigate the situation by making Monzo aware they were 
reducing the withdrawal limit down to the incorrect amount. And Im satisfied he was aware 
this was the case as in October, he himself referred to the £150 limit and stated Monzo 
should reduce it to this when he wouldve been reasonably aware hed asked for this to be 
set at £100 earlier in the year.
I recognise Mr J was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time. And I do appreciate this 
is likely to have impaired his judgement surrounding his finances and his access to funds. 
But despite this, I still think Mr J had a responsibility to ensure his accounts were being 
maintained correctly. And in this situation, I cant see that Mr J attempted to make Monzo 
aware of their error until May 2021, when I think Mr J shouldve been aware by, at the very 
latest, October 2020. So, I dont it would be fair for me to say Monzo are solely responsible 
for all of the losses Mr J has incurred when withdrawing additional amounts from his account 
during this time.So, having considered all of the above, I think the £585 refund Monzo have offered is 
reasonable and in line with what I wouldve direct had it not already been made. I think it 
fairly addresses the error Monzo made and the impact this had on Mr J whilst also taking 
into consideration the opportunities Mr J was provided to make Monzo aware of this error 
earlier than May 2021. And because of this, I dont think Monzo need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. I want to reassure Mr J Ive 
considered his comments about considering the full impact of his gambling addiction and 
how this impaired his judgement at the time. And I hope my decision explains why, despite 
this, I think the offer Monzo had made is fair given the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman