DRN-3462612
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2015, Mrs W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ws behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid 
and thereby provide Mrs W with a substantial income;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs;
the system would pay for itself within 9 years;
the system would need no maintenance during its 25 year lifespan  but the inverter 
will need to be replaced at least once in that period, at a cost of £1,000, which Mrs W 
was not told.
Furthermore, the system was not of satisfactory quality, as evidenced by the fact that it 
would never yield the financial returns P had promised.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, and pointed out that it would take 22 years 
for the system to begin to make a profit. It asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs W could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs W says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mrs Ws testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs W, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs Ws 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.FIT payments and savings
Mrs W has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as Mrs Ws recollections of her meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs W could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs W could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £368.47, which results in an average monthly income of £30.71. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £73.50. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs W was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs W could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £280.40 and the combined income and savings 
in year one is shown as £648.87. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £73.50. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £73.78, but the difference  38p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £73.50, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would take that long to begin to 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above 
that Mrs W wasnt told that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully 
thought about Mrs Ws version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs W that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 38p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs W, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 20 
years. This shows that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Mrs W could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 9-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that Mrs W could expect 
to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£13,280.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs W that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 15 years  or just within the loan period  as 
supported by the graph and the table above, which were both included in the quote. If that 
were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter 
into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs W. The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,401 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ws FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,376 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of kWh. The next 
question is therefore why they have not performed as well as expected in terms of pounds 
sterling.
I have therefore looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs W hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs W could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs W entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mrs J that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell her during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and may require 
your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman