DRN-2074724
The complaint
Mr F says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2003. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mr F applied for an Egg credit card. It gave Mr F accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr F says there was no clear option to proceed with the credit card application without PPI. I 
disagree. Mr F applied for the Egg credit card online and he ticked a box on the screen 
indicating he wanted to take out PPI. The adjacent text said Yes, I want to protect my 
repayments. 
But he could have chosen the option No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my 
repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. The options were set out with equal prominence 
on the screen. The bank has provided the application report that was created when he 
completed the online application, and this confirms he ticked Yes for PPI. 
Overall, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mr F the PPI was optional and he 
agreed to take it out.  
Mr F says he was advised to take PPI. But Ive found no evidence Canada Square 
Operations reviewed his circumstances and then made a recommendation. He applied 
online with no direct contact with the business. So I dont think that Canada Square 
Operations recommended the PPI to Mr F. This means it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr F to decide whether the policy was right for him, bearing in 
mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mr F all the information about the PPI 
that he needed before he made his decision. But Mr F chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He was entitled to between three and six months 
sick pay and three months redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
his work benefits and for up to 12 months. 
Mr F also said he had a death-in-service benefit but thats a different type of protection and 
wouldnt help with monthly repayments in the same way as PPI. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr F if he was sick or lost his job. 
He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely given his circumstances that Mr F 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
This means Canada Square Operations doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr F. But Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F 
because: 
Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada 
Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman