DRN-3304310
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund payments he made 
using his HSBC Visa debit card.  He made these payments to 365markets.com, which 
turned out to be a fraudulent binary options company.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In April 2018, Mr M made several payments to his trading account he held with 
365markets.com (totalling £17,000).  He used his HSBC Visa debit card to make these 
payments.  In short, Mr M discovered that 365markets.com were not regulated in UK, so he 
asked them to close his account and return his funds.  As this did not happen, Mr M asked 
HSBC to try to recover his money.  HSBC initially refunded the funds to Mr Ms account.  
But, following chargeback claims, it re-debited the funds, which Mr M raised a complaint 
about and referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  
He issued two assessments.  In his second, he concluded that fraud triggers applied to Mr 
Ms first payment to 365markets.com.  He argued that there was no evidence to show HSBC 
provided Mr M with any meaningful warnings or gave him other reasons to doubt the 
legitimacy of the payments he made.  He considered that this was a missed opportunity for 
HSBC to intervene, so he directed HSBC refund Mr M his money less credits.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.  In the interest of conciseness, I 
will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully summarised its key points in the 
conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do
not accept that we should be held responsible for [Mr Ms] loss for the following
reasons:
There is only basic detail as regards the background of this complaint, which 
originates from [Mr M]. It appears to be common ground that he carried out no 
research, which was careless;
The findings in respect of our actions are unrealistic and unreasonable.
We would not have been able to determine that the Payments were being routed to a 
binary options merchant which was not regulated by the FCA when the Payments 
were being processed;
It is more likely than not that [Mr M] would not have accepted that this was a scam 
until he started suffering losses and/or could not withdraw his funds. The causation 
position is therefore unsupportable; and
The contributory negligence assessment is formulaic and unsupportable. [Mr Ms] 
losses were directly referable to his failure to carry out any research before making 
the Payments. His actions were objectively reckless and inconsistent with how a 
reasonable person would have behaved. The obligations on consumers to take 
responsibility for decisions are entirely relevant here and should be applied.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam.  Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses.  Some binary-
options traders promoted these products  which were not regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the time  using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that 365markets.com were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but 
were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with 
the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments 
from victims such as Mr M.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
a) After 13 January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be regulated by the FCA  whereas 365markets.com were not 
during the relevant period.  Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as 
I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with 
dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
b) On 17 August 2018, a warning about 365markets.com was published on the FCAs 
website.  And one on 20 February 2019 on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO)  published by 
Belgiums Financial Services and Markets Authority.
c) There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that 365markets.com were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I need to consider the following:
a) Did HSBC deal with Mr Ms chargeback claims fairly?
b) If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr 
M and/or his account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered 
some sort of intervention?
c) If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr M partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments.  Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim.  Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover binary-
options/investment trading at the time of Mr Ms payments.  Visa expanded its rules to cover 
situations whereby binary options/investment traders prevented cardholders from 
withdrawing their available balances from on or after 14 October 2017.
The applicable misrepresentation reason code was 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) and 
it required very specific evidence.  Mr M needed to present dated evidence that he had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that 
he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balance on the same day.  
Based on the evidence before me, I cannot see that Mr M provided this.
HSBC could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if Mr M had produced this 
evidence.  I am aware that in these types of cases, consumers only realise there is a 
problem when they no longer have available balances, or their balances have dramatically 
reduced.  This might be because the merchant manipulates the trading software and whilst 
this is unfortunate, it doesnt change Visas chargeback rule requirements.  And should 
HSBC process a chargeback under this reason code without the required evidence, Visa 
would deem it invalid and it would not succeed in at Visas final stage of arbitration.HSBC did attempt a chargeback claim but this was defended by 365markets.com.  So, 
declining to pursue a chargeback claim any further on Mr Ms behalf where there were no 
reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of 
HSBCs discretion in my view.
In summary
Taking all the above factors together, I consider that Mr M did not have any valid chargeback 
rights at the time.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009/2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to them by HSBC.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr M 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams.  As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or on the Investor Alerts Portal of the IOSCO.  In my judgment, such 
alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment being paused  
pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.In Mr Ms case, there were no warnings published about 365markets.com on the FCAs 
website or on the Investor Alerts Portal of the IOSCO until after he made the payments 
concerned.  I therefore do not think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked the 
payments. 
Notwithstanding this, in light of the odd pattern of these payments, I do think that by the first 
payment made to 365markets.com on 3 April 2018 (£5,000), there are fraud triggers here  
particularly given this was a payee trading in binary options without being registered with the 
FCA (as required at the time):
Date Merchant Amount
3 April 2018 365markets.com £5,000 (debit)
3 April 2018 365markets.com £2,000 (debit)
25 April 2018 365markets.com £5,000 (debit)
25 April 2018 365markets.com £5,000 (debit)
30 April 2018 365markets.com £950 (credit)
19 June 2018 365markets.com £950 (credit)
Total amount debited: £17,000
Total less credits: £15,100
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned Mr M 
before processing all his payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr M and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he 
was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect Mr M from a bad 
bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the payee was 
registered with the FCA.  It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
merchants like 365markets.com in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was information in the public 
domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the 
very high risks associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud 
(e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys 
July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; 
the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is 
likely operating illegally; and Visas business news 26 October 2017 and so forth).
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr M with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making.  It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Causation
If HSBC had asked Mr M what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with the merchant.  HSBC did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr M was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice.  I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options.If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked more 
closely into 365markets.com before proceeding.  There is no evidence to show he was 
willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling.  It seems 
more probable that he would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and 
whether or not 365markets.com were regulated in the UK or abroad.  Mr M could have 
discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-
options/forex scams (see above).  In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from his 
trusted bank would probably have exposed 365markets.coms false pretences, causing him 
to stop trading and preventing further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in 
the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
In this case, I do not think that Mr M was to blame for what happened; that he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr M could have foreseen 
the risk that the company they were dealing with was a scam and the trading account he 
was viewing was likely to be a simulation.
So, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis 
that Mr M should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my financial decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I 
therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Pay Mr M the money he lost, less the amounts 365Markets.com credited to his 
account (that would mean £15,100);
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ms account 
until the date of settlement; and
If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman