DRN-3763412
The complaint
Ms S complains about the information given by Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited in 
relation to a claim on her commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes its agents.
What happened
Ms S holds a comprehensive commercial vehicle insurance policy with Markerstudy. After 
she was involved in a road traffic accident, she didnt think was her fault, she called 
Markerstudy to notify it of the incident and get help with a replacement for her taxi.
But in error, Markerstudy entered in the wrong registration number for the third-party vehicle 
which meant it showed as being uninsured. This in turn led to it informing Ms S it couldnt 
assist her with a replacement taxi while hers was off the road and that shed need to claim 
on her policy with it and that the claim would be recorded as a fault claim.
Ms S ultimately didnt want to claim from her own policy and claimed directly from the third-
party insurer with the help of an accident management company. She was provided with a 
replacement taxi three and a half days after the accident.
Ms S complains about the advice she was given when informing Markerstudy of her claim. 
She thinks its error meant she was unable to work for three and a half days while she was 
without a taxi. Markerstudy didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms S didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought the terms of Ms Ss policy didnt entitle her to a 
replacement taxi while hers was being repaired, and he said it was clear Ms S didnt want to 
claim under her own party. So, he didnt think Markerstudys error was the cause of Ms S 
being without a taxi.
Ms S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Ms S was hoping 
for. Ill explain why below.
Ms Ss policy with Markerstudy doesnt include provision for a replacement vehicle 
while hers is being repaired. So even if she was claiming from her own policy, 
Markerstudy wouldnt be obliged to provide a replacement taxi while hers was being 
repaired.
In this claim, its clear Ms S didnt want to claim on her own policy anyway because 
she wasnt at fault for the accident. I can understand her frustration in being told she 
was and that shed need to claim on her policy with Markerstudy. But Markerstudy 
arent obliged to help her claim from the third party.
Markerstudy did make an error when typing in the registration of the third-party 
vehicle. But Im not persuaded this was the cause of Ms S not being able to get a 
replacement taxi for three and a half days. She knew the correct registration of the 
vehicle as did the accident management company she used  and she wasnt 
claiming from her policy with Markerstudy. In any event, Ive not seen persuasive 
evidence to show that if Markerstudy hadnt made the error, that Ms S would have 
been in the replacement taxi any sooner.
Therefore, I dont find Markerstudy responsible for the time Ms S was without the use 
of a taxi and therefore dont find it responsible for any lost earnings during that time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman