DRN-2145743
The complaint
Mrs C says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs C says Morses told her how 
much she could borrow rather than consider whether she could afford to repay the loans. 
Mrs C says she was never asked for proof of her income and that Morses representative 
would complete all of the paperwork. Because of the loan repayments Mrs C says she 
couldnt afford essential household expenses and the lending had a significant impact on her 
lifestyle and mental health. 
What happened
This complaint is about six home credit loans Morses provided to Mrs C between February 
2016 and February 2018. Mrs Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly
InstalmentsAmount Highest
Weekly
Repayment
1 02/02/2016 12/05/2016 20 £200 £15
2 12/05/2016 23/12/2016 33 £300 £15
3 09/09/2016 02/06/2017 33 £300 £30
4 13/01/2017 29/09/2017 33 £500 £40
5 24/10/2017 25/05/2018 33 £500 £25
6 13/02/2018 24/04/2018 33 £500 £50
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint and thought loans five and six shouldnt 
have been given. They thought Mrs Cs borrowing behaviour showed that she was becoming 
persistently reliant on the lending.  
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicator. She wanted all of the lending to be reconsidered. 
Morses responded to the adjudicator by saying the length of borrowing alone doesnt 
indicate unsustainably. There was nothing to show that the lending was unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mrs C. It said Mrs C repaid loan six early and didnt borrow anything 
further which would show that she wasnt reliant on the lending. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Neither party agreed with the adjudicator, so Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, 
evidence and information provided in this context and what this all means for Mrs Cs 
complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Morses has given us copies of the loan application forms that were completed by its 
representative. Those applications show that Mrs C had a weekly income of between £490 
and £861. Her weekly expenses were recorded as ranging between £325 and £445. On the 
face of it when looking at the income and expenditure recorded for each particular loan, the 
lending looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
But Mrs C says the figures recorded by Morses representative wasnt a true reflection of her 
financial circumstances. Mrs C has also told us she wasnt asked for any proof of income. 
However, I do note that Mrs C had to sign the application forms, I assume after the 
representative had filled in the relevant information. So, if something was amiss, I would 
have expected Mrs C to have questioned it. As I havent seen anything to the contrary, I 
have to rely on the information that was recorded on the application forms. I also note that for two of the later loans proof of income was collected  a wage slip, working tax credit 
letter, remittance advice and DWP letter are referred to. 
Its possible that Mrs Cs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or the information Morses recorded. But as Ive said above, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. In these circumstances  at the beginning of a lending relationship  (in this 
particular case, loans one to four) I dont think Morses needed to take further steps to verify 
the information it had recorded, and which Mrs C signed for. 
Gathering further information could have included asking Mrs C for evidence of her income 
and outgoings which Morses could have gathered from documents such as bank 
statements, copies of payslips or bills as examples. But as Ive already mentioned, Morses 
did record having seen proof of income for the later loans when more checks, proportionate 
to the length of the borrowing relationship, were needed. 
I have considered the information Morses recorded when it carried out its checks. And there 
isnt anything in the information it has given us for the earlier stages of the borrowing 
relationship that may have led Morses to conclude that it should decline Mrs Cs applications 
for the borrowing. I know Mrs C disagrees with what was recorded but I have to rely on the 
information that was recorded on the application forms and which was signed for by Mrs C. 
So, I dont have any evidence which I can rely on that would have shown that earlier loans 
loans one to four  were unaffordable for Mrs C. 
In response to the adjudicator, Morses couldnt agree that loans five and six were 
unsustainable or unaffordable for Mrs C. It said there was no indication that Mrs C was 
reliant on this type of lending and referred to the one-month gap in lending between loan four 
being repaid and loan five being taken. 
Ill address this point first. By the time Mrs C applied for loan five she had been borrowing 
from Morses for 20 months, albeit with the one-month gap. Because of the length of the 
borrowing relationship I dont think that it would have been reasonable for Morses to have 
concluded that because of the one month break Mrs C had overcome whatever her financial 
circumstances were that caused her to take this type of borrowing in the first instance. So, I 
dont agree there was a break in the chain of lending. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, 
starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a 
business should carry out when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship 
with a consumer.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morsess lending history with Mrs C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Cs case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan five. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs C was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs C had taken out five loans and had been indebted to Morses 
for 20 months (with the exception of one month). So Morses ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mrs C was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Cs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.Loan one was for £200 and to be repaid over 20 weeks. Loan five was for £500 and 
the term of the loan had increased to 33 weeks.  At this point Morses ought to have 
known that Mrs C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I note that Mrs C often had more than one loan running at a time which increased her 
weekly repayments and also her overall debt with Morses. 
Mrs C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan six was 
taken out two years after Mrs Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mrs C had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I think that Mrs C lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans five and six should be removed 
from Mrs Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Morses Club PLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman