DRN-3173340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1993 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. The 
mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr T.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for them, so Ill explain why.
Lloyds doesnt have the paperwork from the time it sold the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T  but this 
isnt unusual for a sale that took place nearly 30 years ago  and businesses arent required 
to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs T say that they believed that the MPPI was 
mandatory  and that they werent aware the policy was optional. But they havent said much 
about why this was, other than that the MPPI was shown on their offer. However, the offer 
wouldve been made after an application had already been made, so Im afraid this doesnt 
show that the policy was mandatory. And due to the lack of information I have, I cant uphold 
their complaint for this reason.
Lloyds  recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to take extra steps to make sure 
that the policy was right for them -  and it seems to have been right for them based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I understand that Mr T (as the covered party) 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer  but the MPPI couldve paid out on top of this, 
and for longer. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But [ T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful for them. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
them buying it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ts comments, including what they have said about 
not being able to make a claim when he was made redundant until his pay in lieu had ended 
 and that he had to wait 60 days to make a claim. But neither of these exclusions are 
unusual. And Mr T was paid instead of working his notice, so he wouldnt have lost out 
financially here. So, these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need to give
consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, these dates dont apply to Mr and Mrs Ts account, Lloyds dont have to refund
any of the commission they paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman