DRN-2170670
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Starling Bank Limited refused to remove information from his credit file 
following a cancelled bank account.
What happened
Mr Y says he opened a Starling bank account but asked it to close the account within the 14-
day cooling off period. He says he also asked Starling to remove any information about the 
account from his credit file as it may affect that credit file. And says such information 
shouldnt have been reported as he cancelled the account. Mr Y says the Financial Services 
(Distance Marketing) Regulations apply. Mr Y would like any information removed from his 
credit file and says he has spent time trying sort matters out.
Starling says Mr Y opened the account on 8 September 2019 and on 18 September told it he 
wanted to close the account. It says it did so on 30 September 2019 but says the cooling off 
period applies to credit agreements and not a current account. And says its terms and 
conditions make clear that it will update the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and so 
hasnt made a mistake.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought a 14-day cooling off period didnt apply, and that Starling had acted in line with 
account terms and conditions by reporting information to the CRAs.
Mr Y doesnt accept that view and in summary says he had the right to cancel the agreement 
without penalty or without providing a reason. He says a cancelled contract has the effect of 
not taking place and says the Financial Conduct Authority has given him information which 
supports his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Starling has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate how strongly Mr Y feels about this 
complaint and that he will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no doubt that certain credit agreements have cooling off periods as do other types 
of financial agreements that allow agreements to be ended without penalty. This complaint is 
not about a credit agreement and I can see that the account didnt allow an overdraft in any 
event. Im satisfied that Mr Y decided to cancel the account after it was opened, and Starling 
followed that request by closing his account within a reasonable time period.
The key question is if Starling should report any information about the account to the CRAs 
in the light of the account being closed. I appreciate that Mr Y says a cancelled agreement 
within a cooling off period should be treated as not having been made. But I can also see 
that Starlings account terms and conditions, which Mr Y would have agreed to, say it will 
report the account position to the CRAs as it says its obliged to do so.
Im satisfied that this was not a credit agreement that has a legal right to a cooling off period 
that allows an agreement to be ended without penalty. But an account that was closed 
without any penalty. And it would be for a court to find if there was a breach of any law about 
such matters. In any event I find that Starling acted fairly and in line with its obligations to 
accurately report the account position to the CRAs. I dont find that Starling is under any 
obligation to remove any information from Mr Ys credit file or that its required to treat Mr Ys 
account as if it was not opened just because it was closed within a short period of time after 
it was opened.
I appreciate that a cooling off period allows a consumer to cancel an agreement without 
penalty, but I dont think that includes information correctly reported to a CRA where as in 
this case the information was accurate. I dont think Mr Y has provided evidence of how the 
information has negatively affected his credit score or file. But for the reasons I have 
explained I dont think Starling has made a mistake or acted unfairly. I dont need to decide if 
there was a statutory cooling off period here as I find that such periods are not intended to 
deal with information reported to a CRA but are designed to ensure a customer is entitled to 
end an agreement without penalty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman