DRN-2612819
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr M took out two loans with Mr Lender, one in August 2017 and the second in January 
2018. Both loans were for £250.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 14/08/2017 29/12/2017 3 £250.00
2 04/01/2018 30/04/2018 3 £250.00
Mr M says that Mr Lender didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending to him. He says 
that had adequate checks taken place, Mr Lender would have seen he was in debt, had 
several credit cards and was gambling. 
Mr Lender says that it didnt receive Mr Ms complaint which was why a final response letter 
wasnt issued. It said it was happy for Mr Ms complaint to be considered by this service and 
provided its business file which contained information about the loans and Mr Ms 
circumstances at that time. Mr Lender said that based on the information gathered the loans 
were sustainable and affordable for Mr M.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think further verification of the 
information provided to Mr Lender was required and didnt think that the number of loans, 
amount borrowed, or period of indebtedness meant that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided 
the loans.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he provided copies of his bank 
statements to Mr Lender before the loans were provided which showed his financial position 
and that his credit score was poor. He said he had put in a data subject access request to 
Mr Lender to show the information he had provided. He didnt accept it was reasonable that 
the loans were provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M took out his first loan in August 2017. This was for £250 repayable over three monthly 
instalments with the highest repayment amount of around £170. At the time of the loan 
Mr Ms monthly income was recorded as £1,350 and his monthly expenses as £768. I have 
looked through the information recorded by Mr Lender and can see it includes information 
about Mr Ms housing costs, food and travel and other loans. Mr M told Mr Lender that the 
loan was for a holiday. Considering this was Mr Ms first loan with Mr Lender and assessing 
the repayment amounts required compared to Mr Ms monthly income and disposable 
income I find the checks carried out regarding Mr Ms income and expenses were 
proportionate. 
Mr M repaid his first loan and took out a second loan a few days later. The second loan was 
for £250 and Mr M said he needed this for unexpected car repairs. I do not find this an 
unreasonable reason for the loan. The highest monthly repayment on this loan was just 
under £130. Before this loan was provided information about Mr Ms income and expenses 
was gathered. At this time, Mr Ms monthly income had reduced to £1,000 and his expenses 
stayed the same at £768. This meant he had a lower disposable income however, this still 
appeared enough to meet the repayment amount.The second loan was still early in the borrowing relationship with Mr Lender. I note Mr Ms 
comments about this, and I agree that proportionate checks are required at all stages of the 
relationship however I also find that in the early stages of a lending relationship less 
information may be gathered and assuming this doesnt raise concerns this can be 
proportionate. If a lending relationship continues it may be considered that the loans werent 
being used for one-off or short term shortfalls but instead for ongoing costs. With this being 
only the second loan, I think the checks into Mr Ms income and expenses were 
proportionate and didnt require further verification.
Mr M has said that he provided copies of his bank statements to Mr Lender before the loans 
were provided and that these showed he was gambling and had other debts. If this 
information was provided then I would expect Mr Lender to have taken it into account in its 
decision making process. However, I dont think that Mr Lender was required to ask for bank 
statements at this time and having asked Mr Lender about this issue it has said that it 
couldnt find any correspondence from Mr M providing bank statements to it prior to his loans 
being approved. 
I have looked at the statements Mr M provided and while I do not find these show evidence 
of gambling at a level that should have raised concerns at the time, I note there were several 
returned direct debits which may have suggested he was struggling to manage his money. 
However, as I have nothing to show that the bank statements were provided to Mr Lender 
before the loans were advanced, and I find the information Mr Lender gathered at the time 
was proportionate and suggested the loans were affordable., I do not find I can say 
Mr Lender was wrong to provide the loans to Mr M.
Overall, while I understand this decision will be disappointing for Mr M, I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman