DRN-4247047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about the assistance provided to them when their car broke 
down and they contacted U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for breakdown assistance under their 
Breakdown Assistance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. And Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I think it is more likely than not that UKIs breakdown assistance providers operative 
caused significant damage to Mr and Mrs As car by driving it after it had broken down 
when he shouldnt have done. 
I accept Mr and Mrs As testimony that the operative didnt add any oil to the car before 
driving it as they have been consistent on this from the outset and I find what theyve 
said persuasive. Plus, I have not seen a specific testimony from the operative himself to 
say he did this. Although I do accept the garage he worked for has said he did. 
If Mr and Mrs As car had already suffered catastrophic damage at the point the 
operative attended I do not see how he could have started it or driven it. This doesnt 
mean it hadnt already sustained significant damage, but if it had been catastrophic as 
UKI has suggested I really cant see how the operative would have been able to start or 
drive the car. 
I have noted UKIs engineers point that the engine got hot and seized and it had then 
cooled by the time the operative got there and this combined with the fact he added oil 
meant he could restart it. But Im not persuaded this is what happened.
I have also noted UKIs point about Mr and Mrs As car having a previous oil leak. But Im 
satisfied this was fixed well before the incident I am considering occurred. 
However, I agree that due to an issue with the oil pump Mr and Mrs As car had most 
likely suffered quite significant damage by the time the operative attended and it would 
have cost them a significant amount to have this damage repaired. 
It is difficult to know how much this would have cost, but as a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr and Mrs As complaint I think a payment of 50% of the cost of a 
reconditioned engine and associated costs, less what UKI has already paid them for the 
timing belt is right. 
As Mr and Mrs A had to pay out 50% more than should have been the case for repairs to 
their car as a result of UKIs agents error, I consider it fair and reasonable for UKI to pay 
interest on the amount due to them from the date they paid for the repairs until the date 
UKI makes this payment. 
I dont think UKI needs to pay anything towards the cost to Mr and Mrs A to hire a car 
while theirs was in for repair, as I am not persuaded it was in for longer purely as a result 
of the error by UKIs roadside assistance providers operative. 
I think the whole process was very stressful for Mr and Mrs A. And because of the 
particular impact on Mrs As health, I think a further £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr and 
Mrs As complaint is for UKI to pay them 50% of what it cost them to have a reconditioned 
engine fitted and the other things associated with this, less what it has already paid them. 
According to the invoice provided by Mr and Mrs A, which I am satisfied with, this means UKI 
must pay them a further £2,299.98. UKI must also pay Mr and Mrs A interest on this amount 
at 8% per annum simple from the date they paid the invoice to the date of payment. This is 
to compensate them for being without these funds. Finally, UKI must pay Mr and Mrs A a 
further £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about UK Insurance Limited and 
order them to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman