DRN-2061253
The complaint
 Mr Es complaint was brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It related 
to a fixed sum loan agreement financed by Ikano Bank AB (publ). He wants compensation 
for goods supplied which werent of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
 Section 75 potentially gives the consumer a like claim against the supplier of finance as 
they would have against the supplier of goods and services if theres been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
 Mr E complained that goods supplied by a company Ill refer to as S werent of 
satisfactory quality. Hes since agreed a settlement with S based on a price reduction. This 
has been applied to the finance agreement.
 Mr E also complained of poor service and long delays in dealing with his complaint. Our 
investigator explained that Ikano is not liable for any shortcomings in customer service levels 
of S as its (Ikano) liability only related to a breach of contract.
 Our investigator considered that Ikano had made errors itself when dealing with Mr Es 
complaint. It had incorrectly advised him that this service was unable to deal with complaints 
relating to Section 75. And she felt it shouldnt have taken several months to issue a 
response to his complaint. She recommended it pay a further £150 compensation in addition 
to the £50 it had already credited to the loan agreement. Ikano agreed with the investigators 
award but Mr E wanted an ombudsmans decision.
 Ikanos liability in this matter stems from the fact that S supplied goods which werent of 
satisfactory quality. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied condition that 
goods will be of satisfactory quality when supplied. So a failure to meet that standard would 
usually amount to a breach of contract.
 Any award of compensation I make must relate to a regulated activity or be ancillary to it. I 
find that Ikano initially and erroneously informed Mr E that he couldnt bring a section 75 
complaint to this service. And that it took until April 2020 (from July 2019) for it to issue a 
final response letter. This had the effect of delaying Mr Es ability to obtain redress which is a 
matter directly related to the admitted breach of contract. This caused Mr E additional and 
avoidable distress and inconvenience.
  As Im only directly looking at the role played by Ikano, I cant consider the apparently poor 
service offered by S. So I agree with our investigator that £150 is a fair and reasonable 
award to reflect Ikanos responsibility. That is in addition to the £50 it credited to the loan 
agreement.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Es complaint Ikano Bank AB (publ) should pay £150 (in addition to the £50 
already credited) to Mr E for distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman