DRN-4374908
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his car insurer Soteria Insurance Limited because, following an 
accident claim, it voided his policy. He is also unhappy that, later, it sought to recover its 
claim outlay from him, particularly regarding the total cost it was seeking.
What happened
Mr L arranged cover with Soteria for himself, naming his wife as a driver too. Mr L has said 
that, in April 2020, he wrote to Soteria, advising he no longer lived at the property detailed on 
the policy (address A), that he and his wife had split up and, at renewal, the policy should 
be transferred into her name. The policy was due to renew in December 2020. 
In January 2021 Mr Ls former wife had an accident whilst driving the car. Mr L made a claim 
to Soteria. It discovered there had been claims made before the policy was arranged which it 
hadnt been told about. It decided to void the policy. Soteria wrote to Mr L, at address A. 
Mr L complained to Soteria about its decision and Soteria issued a final response on 
30 March 2021, to Mr L, at address A.  
In June 2021 Soteria wrote to Mr L asking him to reimburse its claim outlay. The letter said 
that its outlay at that point was £9,209.64  but that may increase if further claims were 
received. It also said that if Mr L did not respond, the matter would be transferred to its 
solicitors for recovery proceedings to commence. A further letter, with the same content was 
sent in August 2021.
Soteria did not hear from Mr L and it duly instructed its solicitors. In December 2022 
Soterias solicitors wrote to Mr L  advising its outlay was £18,417.02. To which interest was 
reasonably added. The letter notified Mr L of the intention to issue legal proceedings. A court 
claim was then made on 31 January 2023 for a total sum against Mr L of £21,268.53. With a 
county court judgment (CCJ) later being entered against Mr L.
Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Both about the voidance and 
Soterias recovery of costs, including that costs had risen from around £9,000 in June 2021 
to a CCJ for just over £21,000 in 2023.
Our Investigator said he couldnt look at the voidance. He said Mr L had not complained in 
time and there hadnt been any exceptional circumstances which had prevented him from 
doing so. Regarding Soterias recovery activity he said the policy allowed it to take such 
action and the costs in question were subject of a CCJ, which he couldnt reasonably go 
behind. So he wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L was unhappy. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
Mr L felt we hadnt considered that he hadnt received Soterias final response letter dated 
30 March 2021. I considered Mr Ls concerns to decide whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can look at the merits of the complaint about the voidance. I issued a separate 
decision explaining that we cannot.
Regarding recovery, Mr L said he felt that his main concern, about the increase in costs, had 
not been considered. He felt our Investigator should have done this. When I looked at Mr Ls 
complaint about recovery, I felt Soteria had acted fairly and reasonably in seeking to recover 
its outlay from Mr L. But also that little detail in this respect had been shared with the parties. 
I issued a provisional decision. Neither Mr L not Soteria commented on my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Soterias recovery activity, I said provisionally:
I know Mr L is concerned about Soterias recovery activity. As our Investigator explained, 
Soterias policy does allow it to seek to recover its outlay from Mr L. That is because 
legislation requires it to settle third-party claims, even where a policy is voided, as though 
cover was in place. If the policy had not been voided, the cover in place would have meant 
Soteria bore these costs. But Soteria, reasonably, doesnt want to bear the cost of a claim 
where it has voided the cover. So Soteria is fairly and reasonably able to seek to recover its 
costs in this respect from Mr L. 
I appreciate that Mr L is concerned about how Soteria came to the costs it has asked him to 
repay. And that he wasnt notified that costs were increasing/had increased  receiving an 
initial demand in 2021 for around £9,000, then a CCJ in 2023 for just over £21,000.
Our Investigator told Mr L that we cant go behind the CCJ. I bear in mind that, in some 
instances, we can dismiss complaints where their subject matter has already been decided 
by the courts. This Service is an alternative to the courts and we certainly have no power to 
overturn a courts decision. And the court decided Mr L owes Soteria £21,268.53. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to begin reconsidering here the quantum of the sum subject of 
the CCJ. 
But I note Mr L is upset about how he came to be in this position  with £9,000 increasing to 
£21,000 and him not being given sufficient warning about any action. And we do have a 
remit for considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably.
I see that Soteria did not communicate with Mr L much between its letter of June 2021 and 
its solicitors contact with Mr L in late 2022. I can see that in June 2021, Soterias claim outlay 
which it was asking Mr L to reimburse, was just over £9,000. Seemingly, after that, further 
claim costs came to its attention. I understand that there were some injury claims from 
third-parties and these types of costs can take time to come through. But, Soteria had 
already warned Mr L that if he did not contact it to organise reimbursement, it would pass the 
matter to its solicitors. And that, in due course, the costs it would seek to recover might 
increase. Mr L did not contact Soteria at that time, the matter was subsequently passed to its 
solicitors and recovery action, regarding an increased level of costs, was undertaken. I think 
Soteria acted fairly and reasonably in this respect.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr L. I remain of the view that 
Soteria acted fairly and reasonably regarding recovery. My provisional findings in this 
respect are now final, forming the findings of this my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint regarding Soterias recovery activity. As such, Im not making 
any award against Soteria Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman