DRN-4089331
The complaint
Mr L complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. He says it shouldnt have settled a claim made by a third party after 
he was in an accident, involving another driver.
Acromas is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Acromas has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, 
in my decision, any reference to Acromas includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr L was involved in an accident whilst driving his sons vehicle. The 
vehicle he was driving was hit by another vehicle as Mr L was moving into the outside lane 
of the road.
Mr L notified Acromas of the incident the same day, but he wasnt asked to provide a written 
account or sketch of the accident until around a month later. Shortly after he provided this 
information, Acromas notified Mr L that it had decided to settle the third partys claim.
Mr L raised a complaint with Acromas, which he asked our service to consider when it didnt 
issue a full response within the relevant timescale. He told us he believed Acromas had 
already accepted liability and settled the third partys claim before asking him for his written 
statement or sketch plan. He said he would have wished to contest liability on the basis that 
the third party collided with his vehicle whilst travelling at an excessive speed, in 
circumstances where he should have been aware of Mr Ls presence on the road in front of 
him.
In the meantime, Acromas responded to Mr Ls complaint. It said the cover on the policy 
didnt include repair costs to Mr Ls sons vehicle and the claim would remain at fault status. 
It said the third party was contacted initially regarding the claim and apologised for not 
contacting Mr L sooner. It also apologised for inconvenience caused by not discussing 
liability with Mr L in a call. Acromas said it would be sending a cheque for £100 as an 
apology for his experience.
Mr L didnt think Acromas offer was enough to put things right and asked our service to 
consider the matter. Our investigator looked into Mr Ls concerns, but she didnt think his 
complaint should be upheld. She thought Acromas had acted reasonably and the £100 it had 
paid Mr L for poor customer service was fair.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said Acromas accepted liability without 
seeking his views or obtaining a witness statement or sketch plan from him, and it didnt 
communicate its acceptance of liability until he had asked what was happening. He said it 
wasnt surprising that Acromas was not prepared to reconsider its stance on liability as it 
would no doubt have led to criticism from the third party. 
Mr L said he had no option other than to drop any potential claim he might have had against 
the third party as they would use Acromas admission of liability on his behalf as providing 
conclusive evidence he was at fault. He said he considered £100 totally inadequate 
compensation for his financial losses which were as a direct consequence of how Acromas 
had dealt with the claim.
As Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to decide who was responsible for the accident.  
What Ive needed to decide is whether or not Acromas has acted fairly and reasonably and 
in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policy included cover for Mr L driving other cars with the consent of the owner. However, 
this was limited to third party only. So, Mr L isnt able to claim for damage to his sons vehicle 
under it. However, Acromas was required to consider the third partys claim for damage to 
his vehicle under Mr Ls policy.
The terms of the policy allow Acromas to take over and deal with a claim in Mr Ls name. 
Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It 
means Acromas was entitled to decide whether to defend a claim under Mr Ls motor 
insurance policy or settle it.
Mr L believes Acromas accepted liability for the accident before it asked for Mr Ls version of 
events. He thinks Acromas ought to have reached a different conclusion about who was 
responsible for the accident. 
Acromas has apologised for contacting the third party before it contacted Mr L. However, its 
told us it believes dealing with the third party from the very beginning was the correct 
decision. It says Mr L is relying on the fact that the third party was speeding, and this is not 
something it could prove. The only details it had was that Mr L pulled out into the path of the 
third party and the damage also shows this.
Mr Ls account of the accident was that he was struck by the third-party vehicle as he was 
moving from the left hand lane to the right hand lane. In his statement he said hed checked 
his rear view mirror and he noticed the other vehicle just emerging from the same lane of 
traffic four cars behind him. He said he had ample time to complete his manoeuvre, but 
believes the other vehicle struck him due to its excessive speed. 
Mr L also provided a picture of the vehicle he was driving which shows damage to the 
drivers side across the driver and passenger doors. Acromas says this supports the third-
party drivers account that Mr L pulled out into his path.
I appreciate Mr L strongly believes that the third-party driver is responsible for the accident. 
He says the other driver was driving at an excessive speed and should have been aware 
that Mr L was on the road in front. However, Mr L said in his statement that there were no 
witnesses to the accident. So, I think it was reasonable for Acromas to conclude that it 
wouldnt be able to prove that the third-party driver was speeding. 
The terms of the policy allow Acromas to make the decision about whether to settle a claim 
or dispute it. As an insurer, Acromas is likely to have experience of how the matter would be viewed if it went to court. Having reviewed the information Mr L provided, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Acromas to decide to settle the claim, rather than defend it. 
Acromas has acknowledged that its communication with Mr L could have been better. I think 
the £100 its paid Mr L fairly recognises any distress or inconvenience Mr L experienced as a 
result of this. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr L. But Im satisfied Acromas has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. So, I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman