DRN-2662421
The complaint
Company H is unhappy with how Tide Platform Ltd trading as Tide dealt with the opening of 
a business account.
Company H is being represented in this complaint by Mr O, a director of Company H.
What happened
Company H applied to open an account with Tide. On 19 August 2020, Tide emailed them, 
asking them to verify their account. Company H said they thought theyd cancelled the 
application, and Tide asked for some information so they could look into this. Tide explained 
the email address Company H were using didnt match the application, and they asked if 
they could video call to verify they were taking to Company H. But Company H didnt want to 
video call and didnt provide the information Tide had asked for. Tide explained they couldnt 
discuss details of the application with Company H without verifying them first. 
Company H complained to Tide. In their response, Tide said they couldnt complete their 
verification process (the video call), and they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not 
discussing the application without verification. Company H were unhappy with this response, 
and that theyd addressed it to someone Ill call D. So they brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that financial businesses have an obligation to be certain who theyre 
talking to, before discussing things such as an application. This is because they need to 
ensure that customer information is only shared with those who have a right to it. So he 
didnt think Tide had done anything wrong by not discussing the application when Company 
H refused to go through their verification process. 
The investigator also said that the email address Tide held for Company H was different to 
the one Company H were using. Hed also seen that emails Company H had sent to Tide 
were showing as being from D, so he thought Tide had acted reasonably by addressing their 
final response to D  they couldnt use the name on the application as they hadnt been able 
to verify this. So, because the investigator thought Tide had acted reasonably to protect 
Company Hs data, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Company H didnt agree with the investigator. They didnt agree that the email address Tide 
held for them was different to the one they were using  they say there are no other email 
addresses attached to the account. And they didnt think it was reasonable for Tide to 
address correspondence to D.
Company H have also said that, because Tide refuse to delete data relating to the company 
and their directors, theyre in breach of data protection regulations. And they think that Tide 
failed to advise them when they suspected there had been a security breach. Mr O is also 
unhappy that Tide tried to extort me into providing a visual image of myself and doesnt 
believe they couldve identified him from a video call anyway.
Because Company H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Firstly, Id like to recognise the frustration this has caused Company H. Especially as they 
think their data may have been compromised. But, for me to agree that Tide have done 
anything wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they compromised Company Hs data; or that 
they acted unreasonably in trying to verify Company Hs identity before they could discuss 
the application with them. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
From what Ive seen, Company H attempted to open an account with Tide on 18 August 
2020. As part of this application they provided an email address that didnt include the letters 
ltd. Its not disputed that this isnt a valid email address. So any emails Tide sent to this 
address wouldnt be delivered.
Company H again attempted to open an account on 19 August 2020. This time they used an 
email address that included the letters ltd and they received a response from Tide, 
explaining that Tide needed to verify identity as the next stage in their process. In response, 
the same day, Company H said theyd cancelled the application. This email shows as being 
sent from D at the ltd email address. D wasnt the name on either application.
Company H raised a complaint. In response, on 21 August 2020, Tide confirmed they hadnt 
received any request to cancel the application and that the email address on the application 
was different to the one Company H were using to contact them. Tide also said that in order 
for us to cancel the application, we will need to conduct a quick video verification call to 
verify your identity after which we can cancel the application.
Financial businesses have an obligation to verify their customers, both when opening an 
account and when speaking to them about that account. This is done to ensure that personal 
data is protected and not divulged to someone who isnt entitled to have this. So I dont think 
that Tide have done anything wrong by asking Company H for verification before theyd 
discuss the account. Even if this was just to confirm that the application was to be cancelled.
Ive seen that the email address used on the first application doesnt include the letters ltd 
which are in the email address Company H were using. I appreciate this may have been an 
error on the application; and was probably the cause of Company H being unhappy with the 
service Tide were providing when opening this account, meaning they wanted to cancel the 
application. But Tide couldnt just assume this was the case. 
Also, Mr Os details were on the application, but the email address Company H were using 
identifies the sender as D. In the email conversation with Company H on the ltd email 
address (that took place between 19 August and 6 October 2020), Tide specifically reply to 
D in their emails. And its not until 8 October 2020 that Company H tell Tide this is incorrect.Given this, I can fully understand why Tide may have thought that an unauthorised person  
D using a similar but different email address  was trying to access information about 
Company Hs application. Which is why Im satisfied they acted reasonably by not providing 
any information to D, instead asking for a video call to verify identity  a video call wouldve 
allowed Tide to ask other questions from the application and see if the caller was answering 
them without having to refer to notes. This would enable Tide to be satisfied they were 
actually talking to Company H. So I dont think asking for a video call was unreasonable. 
And, when Company H said they wouldnt do this, Tide were unable to process the 
application any further, including cancel it and delete the details from their records.
Company H think that Tide shouldve told them that their personal data had been breached. 
And, if it had, then Id expect them to do this. But whatd happened was an attempt to cancel 
the application by an individual (D) who may or may not have been representing Company 
H. Because of this, Tide didnt provide any personal information, so there was no security 
breach, or any obligation to report this to anyone. Including to Company H.
Company H also think that Tide have breached data protection regulations by not deleting 
their application. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Tide acted reasonably by 
protecting Company Hs data and not discussing anything with an unverified person. But the 
Information Commissioners Office is the most appropriate body for dealing with general 
complaints about data protection. So, for this reason, I wont comment further on this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Company Hs complaint about Tide Platform 
Ltd trading as Tide.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman