DRN-2695029
The complaint
Mr H complains about Esure Insurance Limiteds settlement of his car insurance claim.
What happened
After being involved in an accident Mr H made a claim on his car insurance policy. Esure 
assessed the damage and deemed the vehicle to be a total loss.
Mr H complained to Esure as he thought his vehicle shouldve been repaired. He said Esure 
had misled him as hed since found out his vehicle was back on the road. Mr H was also 
unhappy there were delays in his claim being processed.
Esure looked at a range of motor trade guides to establish the market value of Mr Hs vehicle 
directly before the incident occurred  this was £5,334. But Esure said Mr Hs vehicle had 
some pre-existing damage so valued it at £5,100. After Mr Hs vehicle was assessed, the 
costs to repair the accident damage meant Esure said the repairs were uneconomical and 
after deducting Mr Hs policy excess, it paid him £4,700 to settle his claim. 
Esure said the terms of Mr Hs policy gave it the right to make the decision on how to settle a 
claim and, whilst it may have been repaired since (by whoever purchased it from salvage) it 
hadnt done anything wrong. But Esure did acknowledge delays during the early stages of 
Mr Hs claim and paid him £100 compensation by way of apology.
Mr H accepted Esures response regarding delays but remained unhappy with his other 
concerns, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said the damage caused by the 
accident had been exaggerated and this had inflated the cost of repairs. Mr H also disputed 
his vehicle had any pre-existing damage, but in any case, he feels the costs to repair the 
damage stated shouldve been paid to him rather than deducted from the market value and 
added to the repair quote. Mr H also said he was deprived of the right to have his vehicle 
repaired up to its market value and that Esure were in breach of contract because of this.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Esure had 
acted fairly and reasonably when both identifying pre-existing damage and in reaching its 
valuation. She also thought Esure had acted within the terms of Mr Hs policy when deciding 
how it settled the claim and said the vehicle became Esures property after the claim, so it 
was entitled to do what it wanted with it.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He restated his vehicle had no pre-accident 
damage, evidenced by a photograph he took at the scene and again said the repair costs 
had been manipulated by the addition of fictitious damage. He said Esure were required to 
have obtained his written consent before it declared his vehicle a total loss and took 
ownership of it  which it hadnt.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but her opinion didnt change. Mr H asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
Im aware Mr H has previously asked Esure for a full copy of the engineers report on his 
vehicle but hadnt previously received sight of it. As the report is evidence our service has 
considered during this investigation, I asked our investigator to provide Mr H with a copy and 
invited his comments before I reached my decision.
Mr H responded to say he feels the photographs included in the report show the doors and 
wings on both sides of his vehicle werent damaged in the accident and did not require 
replacing as the report states. He also disputes the engineers comments that his vehicle 
appeared to have taken off and landed badly during the accident.
For the same reasons, I also provided Esure with the photographs Mr H took directly after 
the accident and asked for its comments. Esure didnt think the images were more 
persuasive than those included in the engineers as to the presence of pre-existing damage, 
confirming its position remained the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of our investigator about Mr Hs complaint and for 
much the same reasons. Ill explain why. But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint 
in far less detail than has been provided, and Ive done so using my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esures initial valuation of Mr Hs vehicle isnt in dispute, so Ive not commented on this when 
reaching my decision. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points of Mr Hs 
complaint that remain outstanding.
I think its important to say that Im not a mechanic or a car engineer, and to make a decision 
on this case I dont need to be. What Im considering is whether I think Esure acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Hs claim. Its not for me to decide personally whether I 
think it shouldve repaired his vehicle or of the existence of pre-existing damage.
I understand Mr H strongly disputes the presence of pre-existing damaged to his vehicle 
prior to the accident. Ive considered this point in detail.
Esure relied on the report prepared by the engineer following the accident. Its now also 
reviewed the photographs provided by Mr H. But Esure say the rear of the vehicle can only 
be seen from a distance and when factoring in the quality of the photograph, lighting, and the 
angle its taken from, it doesnt prove the damage wasnt there.
The engineers report specified damage to the vehicle that couldnt have been caused as a 
result of the accident. It specifies minor marks and scratches to both the near side and rear 
bumper of the vehicle, and a dent to the near side rear quarter of the vehicle. The report 
also included photographs of the vehicle from a range of angles, and Esure say the dent to 
the near side rear quarter can clearly be seen.
Photographs arent an ideal way to assess the damage, but the engineer also did so in 
person. Im satisfied its reasonable for Esure to rely on the professional opinion of the 
engineer when investigating Mr Hs claim.
So I need to decide If I think Esure acted fairly by reducing its valuation and, by the amount it 
did. I wouldnt expect minor dents and scratches, or general wear and tear to impact the 
value of an older vehicle. Id expect an engineer to give specific details of the damage found 
which the engineer in this case did. 
The cost to repair the pre-existing damage was estimated to be £456. Its important to say 
this cost wasnt included in the estimate to repair the accident value. It was done so to determine the impact it may have on the value of the car. Esure couldve reduced the 
valuation by this amount - but it didnt. Applying a preferential rate, it only reduced its 
valuation by £234. I think Esure acted fairly and reasonably by doing so in the circumstances 
of this case.
Ive next considered Mr Hs claim both the accident damage and the cost of repairs were 
inflated by Esure. And that it needed his written permission before taking ownership of his 
vehicle.
In the terms of Mr Hs policy, Esure say Well decide which method we use to settle your 
claim. Esure relied on the engineers assessment of the damage to Mr Hs vehicle. Again, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for it to have done so. And based on the professional 
assessment it received Esure deemed repairing Mr Hs vehicle to its pre-accident condition 
uneconomical. As such it a settled his claim as a total loss and paid out £4,700. The terms of 
Mr Hs policy allow Esure to do this and it the circumstances of this case I think it did so 
fairly.
The terms also say, if we settle your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property. 
Had I seen Mr H had asked Esure if he could retain the salvage, Id usually expect Esure to 
allow this. But I wouldnt normally expect it to offer a policy holder this option, and Ive not 
seen any evidence that Mr H did ask. So I think Esure also acted fairly by taking possession 
of the vehicle when it paid out to settle the claim.
Finally, I understand it must have been frustrating for Mr H not to have had sight of the 
engineers full report earlier. Im pleased he has now. But Im satisfied this was not a 
deliberate attempt by Esure to mislead him. I say this because had it provided the report, I 
think the contents of the report would have supported the actions itd taken.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Esure acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman