DRN-2200688
The complaint
Mr B has complained (via the way of a representative) that Indigo Michael Limited (trading 
as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) gave him unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr B approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in April 2017. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr B was initially given a facility with a £400 credit limit in April 2017. His limit was increased 
on a further five occasions with his final increase taking his credit limit to £1,000
in December 2017. Mr B repaid the facility in full in October 2019.
In its final response letter, SNC offered a one-off ex gratia payment of £1,250 to settle the 
complaint. Mr B rejected SNCs offer and asked for our service to look into his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried
out before granting the facility were proportionate. But she thought the way Mr B used his
facility showed it had become unsustainable over time  and this point was reached by 
26 April 2018. At this point, our adjudicator thought SNC would have seen that Mr Bs 
monthly expenditure outweighed his monthly income. So, our adjudicator thought SNC 
should have stopped him from taking any further drawdowns.
SNC agreed with our adjudicators opinion, and subsequently made an offer to settle the 
complaint in-line with the adjudicators recommendations.
Mr B has asked for an ombudsmans decision, mainly because he disputes the settlement 
figures provided by SNC and he would like a legally binding decision.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
To begin with, both SNC and Mr B seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC was 
wasnt wrong to approve Mr Bs running credit facility from the outset. It also appears that 
both SNC and Mr B agree with the point at which the facility has been upheld by our 
adjudicator  26 April 2018. So, to me it seems there is no ongoing dispute about when SNC 
shouldve stopped lending to Mr B. So, in this decision, I wont be commenting on this.  
But I understand that Mr B feels he has potentially paid more interest than the figures 
provided by SNC suggest. But I want to be clear that SNC only needs to refund the interest 
element of each payment  not the whole repayment.  So, in order to resolve Mr B concerns, 
I think SNC should provide Mr B with a detailed breakdown of its calculations and how it has 
arrived at the redress figure.
Mr B also says he wants a final decision because he feels that SNC may not do what it says 
it will and he says that he and his representative have been messed about. Ive not seen 
any evidence to suggest that SNC wont pay what it has agreed to do. But, Mr B has asked 
for a final decision. And Ive set out below what SNC must do to put things right, which is in 
line with what it has already agreed to do. 
Putting things right
So in line with what SNC has already agreed to do:
Refund all interest, fees and charges from 26 April 2018 until the facility closed.
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B, calculated from 
the date Mr B originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Provide Mr B with a breakdown of how it reached the settlement figure.
SNC should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 
26 April 2018 until the facility closed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman