DRN-1149746
 
The complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business sold the PPI to Mrs P, Allianz Insurance Plcs accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So, Ill refer only to Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Mrs P applied for a store card in 1998. The PPI was sold to her at the same time. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the cards monthly outstanding balance. It would have paid 
15% of the monthly outstanding store card balance (at the start of a claim) if Mrs P was off 
work sick or became unemployed. And it would have continued to pay while she was off 
work until the outstanding balance had been paid off. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs P didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz ought to have informed Mrs P that the PPI was optional and get her agreement 
before adding it. Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs P signed, which 
included a separate section headed PAYMENT PROTECTION. In that section, Mrs P ticked 
a box  which she could have left unticked  to take PPI, printed her name and wrote her 
date of birth as the person to be insured. 
Overall, I think Mrs P was made aware she was being sold optional PPI and that she agreed 
to take it.
I dont think Allianz advised Mrs P to take the PPI in the sense that I dont think it gave her a 
personal recommendation based on her particular circumstances at the time of the sale. So, 
I dont think it needed to take steps to ensure the PPI was right for Mrs P. 
But Allianz still had to give Mrs P clear, fair and not misleading information so she could 
make up her own mind about whether the PPI was right for her. I cant say for sure if that 
happened, but I dont think having better information would have put Mrs P off taking out the 
PPI in any case. I say that because:It seems Mrs P was eligible for the cover under the policy terms. And she wasnt 
affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
The PPI provided a relatively high level of benefit per month for a prolonged period of 
time, and at a relatively low cost. Potentially, it would have continued to pay out until 
the outstanding balance was paid off. So I think she still would have seen the PPI as 
worth having in addition to any enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay she was 
entitled to.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs P would have found the premium unaffordable. And 
the PPI was flexible in that she could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra 
cost, if she no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ps lost out because of how Allianz sold her 
the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman