DRN-1747458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited didnt notify them when it 
took ownership of their previous insurance company. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a life and critical illness policy in 2006. In 2017 the policy was taken 
over by Aviva. In 2019 Mrs R was sadly diagnosed with breast cancer and made a claim. 
Aviva declined the claim because Mrs Rs condition wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs R's policy. The couple complained to Aviva. They said they hadnt 
been told their policy was transferring to Aviva, and if they had, they wouldve reviewed the 
cover and updated it, which wouldve meant they couldve made a successful claim. 
Aviva replied and confirmed Mrs Rs condition wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy. It also provided a copy of the letter sent to all customers in 2017 
which explained the transfer of ownership to Aviva. But said there was no change to the 
existing terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy.  
Mr and Mrs R asked our service to consider their complaint. They said theyd no record of 
receiving the 2017 letter about the change in ownership to Aviva, and so were denied the 
opportunity of reviewing and updating their policy. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. He 
recognised there was no evidence to prove Aviva sent Mr and Mrs R, or their IFA, the 2017 
letter about the change in ownership. But he couldnt say for sure the couple wouldve taken 
any action to review or update their policy if they had received the letter. Our investigator 
was also satisfied Aviva had considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy 
when considering their claim.    
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator and so their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. They were very concerned that we doubted what action they 
wouldve taken on receipt of Avivas 2017 letter. And maintained if they or their IFA had 
received it, they wouldve reviewed the policy. Mr and Mrs R said Aviva had told them during 
a phone call in August last year that many customers updated their policies on receipt of this 
letter, meaning it was likely theyd have done the same. They added this wasnt about 
needing evidence of what they would or wouldnt have done if theyd received the letter  
rather because Aviva didnt send it, they were denied an opportunity to review their policy, 
for which they said they should be compensated.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs R. I appreciate theyve been going 
through a very difficult and worrying time, and have spent time and energy pursuing their 
complaint. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  Ive read 
and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If 
I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Firstly, its evident from the information Ive seen that Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Rs 
critical illness claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy they took out in 2006. 
This is what it was required to do. Those terms werent changed as a result of the 2017 
change of ownership. I fully appreciate how upsetting and frustrating it was for Mr and Mrs R 
to have their claim declined, particularly given the nature of the circumstances themselves, 
but also because Aviva has said it now sells policies that include cover for Mrs Rs condition 
and treatment. But Aviva did nothing wrong here. 
This complaint centres on the action Mr and Mrs R say they wouldve taken to review their 
life and critical illness cover if theyd received the 2017 letter from Aviva. Ive no reason to 
doubt that neither Mr and Mrs R, nor their IFA, received Avivas April 2017 letter. And its 
unfortunate Aviva cant provide proof the letter was sent. So, I have to look at the impact not 
getting the letter had on Mr and Mrs R. When they first complained to us, their focus was on 
a link between them not receiving that letter, and the claim they made in 2019 not being 
paid. Essentially, they were saying they wouldve changed their policy to an up to date one, 
which wouldve resulted in a successful claim. 
The difficulty with this is even if we accepted the letter wouldve prompted Mr and Mrs R to 
review their life and critical illness policy, we dont know what the outcome of that review 
wouldve been. Given it was 11 years since the couple took the policy out, and there would 
likely have been changes in their personal and financial situations, we couldnt say with any 
degree of certainty that the couple wouldve renewed their cover and a successful claim for 
Mrs Rs medical condition wouldve been made. So, I cant say Avivas actions meant
Mr and Mrs R were unable to make a successful critical illness claim.   
Mr and Mrs R have also talked about the loss of opportunity to review their policy because 
they didnt receive Avivas 2017 letter. Looking at the contents of the letter itself, theres no 
requirement for the policy holders to take any action  and its clearly stated that the policy 
terms and conditions wouldnt change in any way, and there was no option in the letter for 
customers to change their cover to different terms. So, while its a possibility receiving this 
letter might prompt someone to check their policy meets their current needs, no specific 
action or review was required.  
Mr and Mrs R have rightly pointed out that a regular review of insurance policies, particularly 
those taken out a while ago, is advisable to make sure they still meet the customers needs. 
And that may well have been the context of the telephone conversation Mr R had with Aviva 
back in August last year. But the onus to undertake such a review is on the customer and 
their IFA, not the insurer. 
Mr and Mrs R couldve reviewed their life and critical illness policy at any time after the policy 
was taken out in 2006. Theyve told us theyre very diligent with all their insurance policies, 
checking policy terms before renewing. And as they appear to have had an IFA for the 
duration of the policy, I think its reasonable to assume a regular review of their financial 
situation was undertaken. Whilst Avivas 2017 letter mightve prompted Mr and Mrs R to 
review their policy terms, I cant say that letter alone, which was a generic letter that made 
no specific mention of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, or required any action, was the only 
opportunity to have reviewed the policy since it was taken out in 2006. So, taking all that into account, I cant say Mr and Mrs R should be compensated by Aviva for a loss of opportunity 
to review their policy as a direct result of not receiving the 2017 letter.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman