DRN-3821235
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because Unum Limited declined his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr C had income protection insurance with Unum through his employer. In December 2019, 
he became too unwell to work. Mr C holds a senior position within an IT company, and he 
describes it as stressful and complex which demands a high cognitive ability. 
Mr C was signed off work with depression and anxiety and prescribed Fluoxetine to help 
combat his symptoms. Mr C submitted his claim in May 2020, and it was declined by Unum. 
Mr C would like his claim paid as he says his symptoms are preventing him from returning to 
work. 
Unum said it declined Mr Cs claim because it felt hed not satisfied the policy terms. It said 
there wasnt enough medical evidence to support Mr Cs claim that he was incapacitated to 
such a degree that would preclude him from work. 
Our investigator agreed with Unum and said itd fairly declined Mr Cs claim.
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he said that his medical condition is still present and that the 
thought of returning to work is very triggering for him. He described some of the pressures 
he faced at work and this has left him struggling to manage his poor mental health. And so, 
its now for me to make a final decision about whether Unum declined his claim fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive decided this because I agree with Unum 
that theres not enough persuasive medical evidence to support that Mr C is suffering with a 
medical condition to such a degree that hed be unable to work. Ill explain why.
Before I do that, I wanted to highlight Unums policy terms, as this ultimately is the test in this 
case. And Mr C needed to satisfy these terms in order to bring a successful claim. 
The terms say;
For benefit to be paid, the member must be unable to work because of illness or injury. We 
call this the definition of incapacity. []
Insured occupation cover
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness of injury
The relevant industry rules and guidance say that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers. It also says they 
should handle claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The issue here is that throughout the deferred period Mr C was signed off work, theres little 
in the way of persuasive medical evidence to show how his illness impacted his ability to 
work. I say that because there wasnt any face to face assessments completed by the GP. It 
looks as though his FIT notes were simply extended month by month, rather than any 
meaningful discussion about Mr Cs mental health and Ive not seen any evidence to show 
he'd been referred for additional treatment such as psychotherapy, or counselling. 
Ive highlighted this because, like Unum, Id have expected to see more in the way of 
treatment, or at least discussions about proposed treatment, but Mr Cs medical records 
didnt show this. I also noticed Mr C was prescribed medication at the beginning of his 
illness, which appeared to stabilise his condition, and so arguably, I think this also supports 
Unums narrative that Mr C wasnt incapacitated to a degree where he couldnt work. 
Unum highlighted Mr C described being able to go for walks, drive, cook and maintain a 
relatively independent lifestyle whilst he wasnt at work. Ive also seen evidence to support 
that as Mr C has described this in his claim form as well as in conversation with Unums 
nurse. 
Ive also considered what was happening with Mr C and his employer at the time he became 
unwell in December 2019. I think its fair to say the relationship Mr C had with his employer 
wasnt in a good place. I understand Mr C was struggling to cope with the pressure at work 
because his performance was being closely monitored by his line manager. Im also aware 
hed raised a grievance, which he suggested didnt make much of a difference to the way he 
was treated. Mr C described being bullied at work which Im persuaded was a catalyst for 
triggering his depression and anxiety. 
I think this is very unfortunate and I can see why Mr C describes work as triggering for his 
poor mental health. But I dont consider that reason enough for Unum to accept his 
incapacity claim. I dont doubt that Mr C is suffering with depression and anxiety. But Im not 
persuaded he fulfils the policys definition of incapacity because his poor mental health 
appears to be more situational, rather than a serious debilitating condition that precluded him 
from being able to work. 
I say that because this is the conclusion reached by Unum and its medical professionals that 
have assessed Mr C. Theyre consistent in that Mr C is able to function relatively normally 
whilst out of work and that work is the trigger for his poor mental health. Mr Cs described 
having good and bad days, but the bad days are usually two days of the week. The rest of 
the time, Mr C demonstrated a regular functional ability, other than being unable to 
concentrate on watching TV. Hes able to attend appointments and go shopping with little 
impact. Theres also been no escalation in his treatment path which I think suggests Mr Cs 
functional ability is stable. Its for these reasons, Mr C hasnt met the policy terms and 
therefore Unum declined his claim fairly. 
Unum also said itd consider other medical evidence Mr C had to challenge its position, 
which I thought was fair, but this wasnt forthcoming and so it maintained its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman