DRN-4250372
The complaint
Mr T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has terminated 
benefit for an incapacity claim he made on a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
Mr T holds a personal income protection insurance policy. In 2019, Mr T made an incapacity 
claim on the policy, after he required bypass surgery. A short time later, Mr T was diagnosed 
with probable chronic migraine by a consultant neurologist. He was prescribed a variety of 
medications to try and bring his symptoms under control. Mr T did return to work, but on a 
part-time basis. He said that instead of working 32 hours per week over four days, he 
worked 24 hours per week  sometimes over three days, but sometimes over more, 
depending on his symptoms. He made a claim on the income protection insurance policy.
L&G accepted Mr Ts claim and it remained in payment on a proportionate benefit basis until 
2022. However, in September 2022, L&G arranged for Mr T to speak with a vocational 
clinical specialist (VCS), who concluded that Mr T was fit to return to work on a full-time 
basis and that he no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. So L&G terminated Mr Ts 
claim in October 2022.
Mr T appealed and provided further medical evidence in support of his claim. L&Gs medical 
officer (MO) reviewed the claim and the new evidence but maintained that Mr T no longer 
met the definition of incapacity. So Mr T asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He explained that it 
was L&Gs responsibility to provide enough evidence to show, on balance, that Mr T no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity. He didnt think it had done so here. He didnt 
think the VCS report accurately recorded Mr Ts working patterns. And he also felt that L&G 
had wrongly focused on the number of hours Mr T was able to work, rather than whether or 
not his income had reached its pre-incapacity level. He didnt think it had been fair for L&G to 
terminate Mr Ts claim and he recommended that it should reinstate the claim; pay any 
backdated benefits Mr T was entitled to and that it should also add interest to each 
backdated payment.
L&G disagreed and Ive summarised its responses. It said Mr T self-reported that he suffered 
from 20 hours of migraines per month, which left 640 hours per month in which he could 
work over the course of a normal five day working week. The definitions set out in the policy 
werent dependent on income, but also a policyholders ability to carry out their own 
occupation.  It questioned what objective evidence there was that Mr T was unable to carry 
out his self-employment  or that his migraines always happened during working hours. 
Additionally, it considered that Mr Ts response to migraines wasnt consistent with NHS 
information about migraines. It noted that Mr Ts company had three employees  so it 
queried who managed the workload and what one of the other directors (Mr Ts close 
relative) income had been since Mr T stopped working. It considered that the business 
continued to operate without Mr Ts input. And it maintained that Mr T was fit to resume full-
time work and it queried why he hadnt implemented any environmental adjustments which 
could negate his symptoms. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for L&G to terminate Mr Ts claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and the parties detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said 
and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been 
made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and conditions and the 
available evidence, to decide whether I think L&G has handled Mr Ts claim fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show that they have a valid claim on their policy. This means that at the outset, it was Mr Ts 
responsibility to provide L&G with enough medical and other evidence to demonstrate that 
he met the policy definition of incapacity. Its common ground that L&G was satisfied that Mr 
T was incapacitated in line with the policy terms and it accepted his claim in 2019. Once an 
insurer accepts an income protection insurance claim, the burden of proof switches. I 
generally take the view that in order for it to terminate Mr Ts claim fairly and reasonably, 
L&G needs to provide enough evidence to show that Mr T no longer meets the definition of 
incapacity.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ts 
contract with L&G. L&G concluded that Mr T no longer met the policy definition of incapacity 
and so Ive looked closely at the definition of incapacity. This is defined as: Own occupation: 
If you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time of incapacity we will 
consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as set out in the section 
headed "Assessing your claim" and are satisfied that you have no capacity for working in 
your own occupation, on any basis, as a direct result of your injury or illness.
L&G paid Mr Ts claim on a proportionate basis. So Ive looked at the terms relating to 
proportionate benefit. These say:
If you return to gainful employment or gainful self-employment on a lower level of earnings 
than you received immediately before your incapacity, directly as a result of your 
incapacity, the proportionate monthly benefit will be payable. (My emphasis added).
The Proportionate Benefit will be equivalent to the reduction in your earnings compared to 
your earnings in the 12 months before incapacity.
Ive gone on to consider then whether I think L&G has provided enough evidence to show 
both that Mr T no longer met the policy definition of incapacity and that his self-employed 
income was lower for reasons other than his incapacity.Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence  including clinic letters; Mr Ts GP 
records and the findings of both L&Gs MO and the VCS. Its clear that since 2019, Mr T has 
suffered from a diagnosis of probable chronic migraine, from a consultant neurologist  an 
expert in their field. Mr T has been prescribed a number of medications to try and treat his 
symptoms. The neurologist concluded that the aim was to get Mr T to a position where he 
was suffering less than 20 hours of migraine per month.
In January 2022, the neurologist wrote to Mr T saying:
There have been months in the past 6 months where you have been less than 20 hours a 
month, for example in autumn of last year but things have been upset by the Covid 
vaccination and getting Covid in January, both of which caused a migraine spike. I think we 
need to see how the next 4 months go and as long as your migraine hours are falling month 
by month then I think (medication) will have you on track.
If not we may take up (another neurologists) suggestion and put you on one of the drugs he 
has advised.
In August 2022, the neurologist wrote to L&G, reiterated their comments above, explained 
that Mr T was seeing another neurologist through the NHS and stated: a phased return to 
work through a rehabilitation consultant would be entirely reasonable.
 And in November 2022, the neurologist stated:
Unfortunately, this year has been up and down for you. Your migraine can be as good as 35 
hours per month but should you get COVID or get stressed, it can be very much worse. It is 
a sign that we don't have things quite right for you.
In my view, the neurologist, who had been treating Mr T since his original diagnosis, 
appeared to consider that Mr Ts migraine symptoms could be significantly worse than 35 
hours per month. It isnt at all clear to me, based on the neurologists evidence in November 
2022, that they felt Mr Ts symptoms had improved from January 2022. In January 2022, the 
claim had still been in payment, which indicates that L&G still considered Mr T met the policy 
definition of incapacity.
Additionally, on top of regular fit-notes during the relevant period, which state that Mr T was 
only fit to work three days a week due to migraine, his GP also provided a letter to L&G in 
November 2022. This included the following:
He has suffered from migraine type headaches since his heart surgery in June 2019 and 
has been under (consultant neurologist) since September 2019. Over this time he has tried 
several treatments and changes in his work patterns, with the aim of reducing the migraine 
frequency and severity.
Prior to the migraine issues he was working 32 hours a week over 4 days but since the 
migraines have started, he has found he is usually only able to manage a maximum of 6 
hours of work before the onset of headache. He tends to work therefore 6 hours a day over 4 
days. Even with this reduced working pattern and regular breaks throughout the day, he is 
still troubled with significant headaches and remains under (neurologists) care for this.
To put this into context; over the past 3 months he has experienced 30 days of headaches 
lasting a total of 183 hours. This is a significant burden.
This pattern of headaches has changed the pattern of work also in that it limits his ability to 
travel, and in that stress seems to make the headaches worse and this limits the type of contract he has been able to take.
L&G now questions the self-reported nature of Mr Ts symptoms. It seems to me that L&G 
has been prepared to rely on the neurologists evidence, the GP fit notes and Mr Ts 
description of his working patterns and symptoms since 2019. While Ive borne in mind its 
MOs evidence and the NHS link it referred to, I find the neurologists evidence more 
persuasive, given theyre an expert in their field. Im mindful too that Mr T has also seen 
another neurologist who has suggested treatment for migraine. It seems more likely than not 
then that the neurologists whove had the opportunity to examine and treat Mr T think he 
does have probable chronic migraine and theyve spent some time in trying to find the right 
treatment for him. And it isnt clear to me why L&G now questions Mr Ts self-reported 
symptoms and probable diagnosis, so far into the claim.
It's clear that L&G feels strongly that based on Mr Ts discussion with its VCS, he is fit to 
work full time. Like the investigator, Ive listened to the call between Mr T and the VCS. I can 
understand why the VCS might have concluded that Mr T worked 24 hours over three days. 
But he did say that sometimes he spread those three days over the other days of the week, 
rather than doing eight hours per day  and that he needed regular breaks. Mr T told the 
VCS that he hadnt increased his hours and described his activities of daily living and leisure 
activities. The VCS concluded:
Based on the customers reporting today, in my clinical opinion and with no evidence to the 
contrary, the customer is likely to fit to resume his full contracted hours in his insured role. 
I dont think this is strong enough evidence to show that Mr T no longer meets the definition 
of incapacity. It relies on no evidence to the contrary to prove the claim should be 
terminated. But as Ive explained, it isnt for Mr T to demonstrate hes still incapacitated  its 
for L&G to show he isnt. And I dont think the VCS findings are enough to negate the 
neurologists and GPs evidence. Instead, I think the medical evidence from the treating 
specialists and Mr Ts GP are persuasive enough to show that Mr T is still incapacitated in 
line with the policy terms.
As the investigator explained, the policy says that L&G will pay proportionate benefit if a 
policyholder returns to employment and receives a lower level of earnings than they were 
receiving immediately before their period of incapacity. Mr T was still earning a lower level of 
income than before his incapacity began in 2019. L&G has questioned Mr Ts business 
structure and the income of another director. I cant see that L&G has previously raised this 
with Mr T in any meaningful way. Nonetheless, the policy refers to you  which is defined as 
The person who is named as the life insured in this Policy Booklet. Mr T is the only named 
insured under this policy and therefore, its his income which is relevant.
If L&G wishes to terminate Mr Ts claim because it considers his earnings are now lower for 
reasons other than his incapacity, again, I think it needs to provide enough evidence to 
show, on balance, that thats the case. And based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont find 
thats its done so here.
Overall then, I find that L&G hasnt provided enough evidence to show, on balance, that Mr T 
no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity; or that Mr Ts income is lower than his 
pre-incapacity income for reasons other than his incapacity. So it follows that Im not 
satisfied that L&G has shown it was fair and reasonable to terminate Mr Ts claim. 
Accordingly, I find that it must now reinstate and pay Mr Ts claim, backdated to the date of 
termination. And it must add interest of 8% simple to each monthly benefit payment from the 
date it was due until the date of settlement. If Mr T has paid any monthly premiums which 
wouldnt have been collected if the claim had remained in payment, L&G should include a refund of those premiums, together with interest, in the settlement.
I must make clear that L&G remains entitled to periodically review the claim, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions to assess whether the claim remains payable. This may include 
asking Mr T to provide further evidence or undergo further medical assessment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Legal & General Assurance Society Limited to:
- Reinstate and pay Mr Ts claim, backdated to the date it was terminated;
- Add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to each backdated monthly benefit from 
the date it was due until the date of settlement; *
- Refund Mr T any premiums he wouldnt otherwise have paid if the claim hadnt been 
terminated, along with interest on that refund amount of 8% simple per year.
*If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman