DRN-2889442
The complaint
Mr D complains that Whitehall Randall and Associates Limited (WRA), a claims 
management company, contacted him using personal information that had been illegally 
obtained. He says this has caused him distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr D received an offer of services / prospecting letter from WRA. He contacted WRA to ask 
where theyd got his personal details from. WRA said that the information was obtained from 
a lead generator, but they didnt know where the lead generator had got it from. 
Mr D complained to WRA, saying he believed the lead generator was trading illegally in 
personal data and that WRA shouldnt have marketed to him without his consent. WRA 
responded saying that the information  Mr Ds name and address  had been obtained from 
a legitimate source and that the marketing letter couldve been shredded if services were not 
wanted.
 
Mr D was unhappy with WRAs response, so brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and said that WRA had failed to satisfy themselves that the 
lead generator had obtained consent to hold Mr Ds personal data. She thought Mr D had 
experienced inconvenience as a consequence of this failing and awarded £50 
compensation. 
WRA accepted our investigators view, but Mr D didnt. In May 2021, I issued a provisional 
decision, as follows:
Its clear to me that both parties feel strongly about the issues raised in this 
complaint. Ive summarised matters above, but the parties will be aware that our 
investigator has commented in detail on all the various points. I dont intend to repeat 
whats already been said, but rather to focus on my reasons for coming to a different 
conclusion. 
Mr D has said that he receives unsolicited mail and approaches several times a day 
and finds this distressing and inconvenient. Hes concerned that his data isnt being 
protected as it should be. I acknowledge this is a wider concern and frustration for Mr 
D. My focus here is on the actions of WRA alone, whether WRA has acted fairly 
towards Mr D and if not, whether Mr D has lost out as a result.
 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account the relevant data protection law, 
guidance from the Information Commissioners Office and the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) rules and guidance for claims management companies. 
To store and use personal data a company or organisation must have a lawful basis 
for doing so. Often, this is simply that a person has consented to their data being 
stored and used. And in summary, the FCA rules say that a firm accepting sales 
referrals, leads or data from a lead generator must check that the lead generator is 
properly authorised and regulated. And must satisfy itself that the lead generator has 
appropriate systems and processes in place to ensure compliance with data 
protection legislation, including that data has been obtained lawfully. 
WRA told us that in buying data it acted in good faith, on the understanding that the 
customer would have opted in and thereby consented to their data being stored and 
used. But Mr D says that he has not given any such consent. And I think the 
regulations require more than just acting in good faith. WRA hasnt provided any 
details of checks or enquiries made with the lead generator, prior to purchasing 
information. So I dont think WRA did enough to meet the regulatory requirements. 
And by accepting Mr Ds data and writing to him without satisfactory checks, they 
didnt treat him fairly. 
So having found that there was an omission, I now have to consider the impact of 
that omission on Mr D. 
Our investigator concluded that the receipt of the letter alone was of minimal impact. 
But she acknowledged Mr Ds frustration over the misuse of his data and thought that 
WRA couldve provided information to Mr D sooner about the identity of the lead 
generator. Overall, she awarded £50 to reflect this inconvenience.  
But having looked at everything afresh, Im not presently minded to make an award 
for compensation. I accept that this incident is part of a wider problem for Mr D. But in 
isolation I agree that the impact of receiving one letter is relatively minor. WRA has 
said theyve since deleted Mr Ds information, so there shouldnt be any repeat 
occurrence.
 
I also accept that Mr D has had to raise a complaint, but raising a complaint alone 
isnt something I would ordinarily award compensation for. Unfortunately, errors do 
happen, and the inconvenience of sorting them out is part and parcel of daily life. So I 
would only award compensation for progressing a complaint where I could see that 
the complainant had been significantly inconvenienced in doing so. And I havent 
seen any evidence to support that in Mr Ds case. 
Finally, I agree that WRA could and should have been more forthcoming regarding 
the details of the lead generator. But again, I cant see that it wouldve made a 
significant difference if they had been, as Mr D wasnt able to further his 
understanding about how his data was obtained when he was given the details. 
I appreciate that Mr D will likely be unhappy with my provisional decision. But overall, 
I dont presently intend to require WRA to do anything more.
I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or comment by 15 June 2021. WRA 
responded to my provisional decision, accepting its conclusions. Mr D didnt respond to the 
provisional decision, or a follow-up email sent after the deadline for further comment had 
passed. Im satisfied its now appropriate to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence, I can see no basis to depart from the conclusion I 
reached in my provisional decision. My reasoning remains the same as that set out 
previously and repeated above.I appreciate this is not the answer Mr D was hoping for. But Im not asking WRA to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint and make no award or direction 
against WRA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman