DRN-2801731
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) administered her travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs G had an annual travel insurance policy with URV which 
had start and end dates of 12 April 2019 and 11 April 2020 respectively. URV says that 
the policy initially covered Europe, including Spain. 
In November 2019, Mrs G contacted URV and paid an additional premium for cruise 
extension cover. URV didnt ask Mrs G about the destination of the cruise. In fact, the 
cruise extension cover didnt cover Mrs Gs cruise to the Caribbean in November 2019, 
as it didnt come within the territorial limits of the policy. 
URVs error didnt come to light until February 2020, when Mrs G contacted URV about 
cover for a trip to Mexico she had planned for March 2020. During the February 2020 
phone call, URV made another mistake in that it charged Mrs G an incorrect additional 
premium in relation to her trip to Mexico. It refunded the amount it had overcharged     
Mrs G. 
In response to Mrs Gs complaint, URV offered shopping vouchers to the value of £75. It 
subsequently agreed to pay Mrs G cash instead of vouchers. That wasnt acceptable to 
Mrs G.
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its common ground that URV made errors in that it didnt ask Mrs G about the 
destination of her cruise when she phoned in November 2019 to purchase cruise 
extension cover and it charged an incorrect premium in relation to a change about 
territorial limits in February 2020. URV also accepts that it didnt provide clear 
information to Mrs G.
I can quite understand Mrs Gs concerns about the cover she had under the policy. 
URV is the expert here and wed expect it to get these matters right. But URV has 
confirmed that if Mrs G had made a claim against the policy in relation to the cruise, it 
would have dealt with it. I think thats fair. And URV acted promptly in correcting its 
error in overcharging Mrs G in February 2020. 
Mrs G wants URV to refund the premium. There are no grounds on which I could 
fairly direct URV to do that. Thats because Mrs G had the benefit of cover under the 
policy. And URV would have dealt with a claim arising from Mrs Gs cruise, if she had 
needed to make one. So, URV took on the risk of cover and its fair that Mrs G pays a 
premium for that. 
I think that the compensation of £75 URV has already offered is fair. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs G by URVs errors. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
If Mrs G wishes to accept the compensation of £75 Union Reiseversicherung AG has 
already offered to pay, she should contact it directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman