DRN-3067379
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) did not reduce the cost of his Club 
Lloyds Private Premier bank account when the pandemic struck in 2020.
Mr U says that Lloyds shouldve offered a discount on the monthly fee he was paying for his 
account, on the basis that he was unable to benefit from many of the products provided by 
the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in this matter. Mr U disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr U feels that Lloyds shouldve offered to reduce the monthly fee for the 
Club Lloyds Private Premier account on the grounds that he was unable to use many of the 
benefits it provided.
From what I understand, the £25 monthly charge was specifically for the Premier package 
included with the account. However, the Premier aspect of his account is sold as a package. 
Because of this, account holders are unable to pick and choose what it comes with. And that 
also means it comes at a fixed price too. Therefore, if account holders dont feel that the 
combination of benefits that they receive from the package continues to provide good value 
for money, it is up to them to cancel it.
In this case, Mr U mayve felt (quite understandably) that the Premier account was poor 
value for money for him during the pandemic. And I note that he has referred to other 
products (such as motor insurance) whereby a discount or refund on the premium has been 
offered to policy holders. 
However, the Premier packaged account does not operate like a typical insurance policy 
does. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover (and access to a 
range of non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr U was 
not tied into keeping the Premier package on his account, and as he was free to cancel it as 
soon as he felt it was no longer good value for money, I dont think Lloyds was being 
unreasonable by saying that it wont offer him a temporary discount to keep the Premier 
package on his account.
In his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr U says that Lloyds never advised him to 
downgrade his account to a fee-free account. I can see that it mayve been useful had 
Lloyds checked with Mr U, to see if he was still getting good value for money from his 
account. But there is no actual requirement for Lloyds to check whether Mr U was still using 
the account benefits on his packaged account. Lloyds is only obliged to remind him of the 
eligibility criteria for the insurance benefits on an annual basis and to inform him of any 
changes made to the terms and conditions, as and when they are changed. So again, I cant 
say that Lloyds is at fault or acted unfairly because it did not proactively contact Mr U during 
the pandemic to suggest he downgrade his account to one that has no monthly fee.
So, whilst I understand why Mr U wouldve liked to have been offered a discount for his Club 
Lloyds Private Premier packaged account, in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that 
Lloyds was being unfair or unreasonable in choosing not to offer one to Mr U.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman