DRN-1424361
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Mr M took out a PPI policy in connection with his mortgage. Santander doesn't know 
how the same came about - it no longer has sufficient records to determine this. Mr M says 
he recalls the sale happening by phone and by post. 
The policy provided protection for Mr M's mortgage payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 
months per claim and it cost around £60 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr M was employed, and he said he wasn't entitled to enhanced sick 
pay. He said he had no other means he couldve used to make his repayments, and he said 
he was in good health at the time.
Santanders records show the mortgage account has long since been closed.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there wasn't 
enough evidence to fairly say that Mr M didn't choose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mr M's case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr M was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr M have a choice about PPI? 
I can see Mr M says he was told the PPI would help with the approval of his mortgage 
application.
Santander no longer has any paperwork or records from the time of the sale. And this 
isn't surprising given how long ago things happened  businesses don't have to keep 
records indefinitely.Because of the limited evidence about an event which took place over 20 years ago, I don't 
think I can fairly say that Santander more likely than not misrepresented the policy as not 
being optional or that Mr M didn't agree to take it out. I think it's likely that Mr M was given a 
choice, and he's now forgotten what happened - and I can understand why.
the advice
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. And while I've not seen anything to show 
this was the case, it doesn't disadvantage Mr M in any way. So I'm happy to assume this 
was an advised sale. This means Santander had to check that the PPI was right for Mr M  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances, and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr M didn't have any existing means he could've used to help him meet his mortgage 
payments if he found himself unable to work. So I think he'd have quickly come under some 
financial strain if the insured risks become a reality. I therefore think the PPI could've proved 
useful to him and helped him out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain 
time. And it would've done so for up to 24 months per claim. 
Overall, in light of the above together with the fact that Mr M was taking on a not insignificant 
amount of debt secured on his home, I don't think it was wrong for Santander to have 
recommended PPI to him - I think the policy was suitable.
the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Santander gave 
Mr M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think he 
likely chose to take it out and so wanted this type of cover. And as I also set out above it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.  
I accept the cost was not insignificant - although I've not seen anything to suggest it was 
unaffordable. But the benefit was in my view high at nearly £900 a month - it was also 
payable for up to 24 months. So in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition of the policy 
I think Mr M in his circumstances would've thought it worked for him.
Also I find it unlikely that Mr M would've gone ahead without knowing something about the 
cost. I'm mindful too that the premiums would've appeared on his bank statements as a 
separate and distinct entry - so if the cost was at odds with what he expected, I think he 
would've queried things at the time. 
So for these reasons I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off 
taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Santander might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mr M PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think PPI was suitable for 
him and I think he'd have still gone ahead and taken it out had Santander done anything 
more.
This means Santander doesn't have to pay back to Mr M what he paid for PPI.Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he's said about Santander 
upholding his other PPI complaints and his concern that he's not articulated his arguments 
clearly. But these points dont change my decision.
I must re-assure Mr M that I think he has made his complaint points clearly - I've also 
considered them all carefully.
As the adjudicator told Mr M, we don't know why Santander upheld his other complaints. 
There could be a number of reasons - for example different PPI products have different 
considerations in terms of their appropriateness for an individual. So it's not unusual to see 
the scenario Mr M describes. But it could also simply be the case that Santander took a 
commercial decision to uphold Mr M's other complaints.
But importantly, in this particular case and for the reasons I've set out in detail above, I don't 
think Mr M's mortgage PPI policy was mis-sold. I therefore don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman