DRN-3980333
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unreasonably delayed payments to established 
cryptocurrency exchanges and they provided him with poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr L has a bank account with Barclays. He says that they unreasonably and unjustifiably 
delayed all the numerous online banking payments he has tried to make to established 
cryptocurrency exchanges over many months. He says that even though some of the more 
recent payments he attempted to make were to the same account and same payment 
reference number, these have still been delayed. 
Mr L said payments he had attempted to make were pending. But he says on no occasion 
when any of the payments were pending did Barclays make any attempt to contact him via 
any channel available to them. He says the only way the payments would be cleared is if he 
rang Barclays directly, which he says led to unreasonable and unjustifiable delays in the 
payments (even though he had already authorised these payments by completing Barclays 
security clearance online). He also says the call handlers he spoke to gave him different 
reasons why the payments had been put on hold.
Mr L says that when he spoke to the call handlers to have the transactions authorised, he 
was subjected to patronising questions, even though it would be clear to them that his 
account showed many cryptocurrency transactions. He said Barclays then banned payments 
to the cryptocurrency firm he was wanting to make payments to. He believes Barclays 
actions were a result of them viewing the cryptocurrency firms as competition to them. 
Mr L complained to Barclays after a November 2021 payment was delayed. They did not 
uphold his complaint. They said on 18 November 2021, that they do on occasion decline (or 
delay) transactions which are valid and unfortunately this happened on his account. They 
displayed a telephone number to speak to them if his transactions are declined again and 
their automated telephone system is unable to contact him, which would speed up their 
process of refreshing his account for further use. They said although Mr L felt they were 
being patronising to him, they completed this process in the best interest of his account.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said Barclays responded to his complaint on a 
letterhead of a separate company they own, which had nothing to do with the company he 
had complained about, the response contained a phone number for the separate company 
instead of Barclays. He says that he only received a response in the proper format after 
three and a half months and after making at least five phone calls. Mr L says he had asked 
for evidence about Barclays stating that the payments were delayed due to their crypto anti-
fraud system which he was told was in place due to an instruction by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to Barclays, but he had not received the evidence, despite him being 
promised this would be sent and after at least five phone calls and several email requests to 
different Barclays email addresses, and he had still not received a copy of this evidence, 
even though he received email receipts from them, confirming he would normally receive a 
response within 48 hours. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said Barclays can complete additional 
checks on any payments, which may cause a delay, but they were complying with the terms 
of the account. Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. Ive 
separated my decision into two parts to help with the different issues Mr L has raised.
Pending payments/attempted payments to cryptocurrency exchanges
Id like to explain to Mr L that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them being victims of scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block/delay/refuse legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress 
and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted 
incorrectly. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about payments he attempted to make were to the same 
account and same payment reference number, but these have still been delayed. But Im not 
persuaded that this should mean that security checks should not take place in these 
instances. I say this because Barclays need to satisfy themselves that Mr L is the person 
who is genuinely making the payments. I would still expect Barclays to protect Mr Ls 
account, even if there was history of payments being made to certain cryptocurrency 
companies. And on two calls Ive listened to, Mr L tells the call handlers that the account he 
attempted to pay the money to in November 2021 had changed (albeit the sort code and 
reference had stayed the same).
So I dont find it unreasonable for Barclays to have security controls in place to manage their 
obligations and to fulfil their duties to their customers to ensure each payment made is 
genuinely made by their customers themselves and they are not being coerced or scammed 
into making payments.
Ive looked at whether Barclays have acted in line with their personal banking terms and 
conditions here. Im satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their personal terms and 
conditions, shows that there is a list of reasons, including, but not limited to, if they didnt 
think the instruction came from Mr L, where the funds might be obtained through deception, 
if Barclays may break their regulatory duty by making a payment etc, While we are checking 
that none of the reasons above apply, there might be a delay in getting the payment to its 
destination  even if everything turns out to be fine. So Im satisfied that they set out that 
payments can be delayed. And the terms also show they can refuse to make a payment.
Barclays would be well placed to know how many of their customers have been affected by 
fraud and scams in this area. And fraud and scam trends can be fluid, in the sense that they are highly likely to change over time. So what may have been deemed as a lower risk 
previously can become more of a risk over time and vice versa. Barclays explained to Mr L 
that they work through a chronological list in contacting customers when there is an issue 
with payments, but Mr L had contacted them before they rang him, and thats why they 
hadnt reached out to him first. I know Mr L disputes this as he says this didnt happen 
previously, but Barclays explained they wouldnt ring after a certain time and thats why they 
rang the following morning, but Mr L did not answer the call as he was unavailable.
So I cant say that Barclays made an error in delaying Mr Ls payments to ensure that the 
genuine customer made the payment and to meet their obligations. And this was explained 
to Mr L when he had previously complained about this issue, which Barclays addressed this 
in March 2021 in their letter to him. So I wont be asking Barclays to pay Mr L for any losses 
if he got a different price to what he could have done if the payment(s) hadnt been delayed.
Customer service received
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the customer service he received from Barclays. I 
asked Barclays to provide me with the phone calls that hes had with them about the issues 
raised. Barclays have told me that they have only been able to locate two inbound calls from 
Mr L as he had rung from a withheld number. They said this makes it extremely difficult to 
locate call recordings, especially given the length of time that has passed, and they were 
only able to find them if detailed contact notes were left by the advisors who took the call. As 
they are a different legal separate entity to the company whose letterhead was used on his 
final response letter, they can only provide me with details made to Barclays themselves, 
and not any other separate companys in their group.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about different call handlers giving him different reasons 
for the payment delays. As none of these calls are available, I asked Barclays about this. 
Barclays have confirmed that the triggers within the fraud detection systems are not made 
available to front line staff, so that this does not become public (which could in turn allow 
fraudsters to circumvent their detection systems). So without listening to exactly what was 
said here, I cant explain the reasons why this was. On the balance of probabilities, it is likely 
the call handlers were speculating why the payments were being delayed. And as they did 
not know the exact reason, this is why the reasons could have differed. 
Ive listened to the call Mr L made when his cryptocurrency payment was delayed. The call 
was on 7 November. But while its clear Mr L did not agree with Barclays process, the call 
handler answered Mr Ls questions, explained why there was a block on his app, removed 
this and guided Mr L to make the £10,000 payment that he wanted to (as the app could only 
process payments up to £2,000). The call handler then raised the complaint for Mr L. 
Although Mr L thought the questions were patronising, Im not persuaded that they were. 
While I understand Mr Ls point of view that he genuinely made the payment, as Ive 
previously mentioned, Barclays need to satisfy themselves that Mr L genuinely made the 
payment - and he was not being scammed. 
Another call Ive listened to is an outbound call from the complaints team to Mr L on 9 
November 2021. This is where it is discussed about the regulators requirement for Barclays 
to have fraud control systems in place. Mr L asks so can you send me out the information 
thats telling you to do this? the complaint handler replied what do you mean whats telling 
you to do this? Mr L says well youre saying its mandated by the FCA correct?, to which 
the complaint handler says mmhmm and Mr L says right, so can you send me out the 
confirmation of that?. The complaint handler says I can have a look for you on the system 
yeah, Ill get one of the others to try and send that out wherever we can.  
So I do think there was an expectation set by the call handler that Mr L would receive information from Barclays about the FCA requirements based on what the complaints 
handler told him. While he also said try and send that out wherever we can, if there was a 
reason why they did not or could not provide this information, I would expect them to tell Mr 
L this. His final response letter that Barclays issued in November 2021 (after this call) was 
silent on this. So Mr L was still expecting something to be sent out to him.
Mr L rung Barclays on 7 January for an update on his complaint and he is told by the call 
handler the complaint is marked as closed. Mr L tells the call handler that it shouldnt be as 
he hadnt received the items that were going to be sent out to him. He asks for the complaint 
teams direct number and he says he would ring them. So again, Mr L was under the 
impression that something would have been sent out to him. As he hadnt received the 
documentation or been directed to the regulators website about this issue, then Im 
persuaded that Mr L had been let down here, when an expectation was set that something 
which he had made clear was important to him on at least the call on 9 November (and 
possibly other calls I dont have access to) hadnt been addressed by Barclays, which 
resulted in Mr L needing to ring them up again about this. 
Ive also listened to a call on 16 February 2022. Where Barclays call Mr L. The call handler 
says the person he spoke to in the morning had put through a request for the letter to be 
sent out on Barclays letterhead paper. Mr L says yeah but thats whats happened the last 
four/five times Ive called as well. Mr L confirms it was nothing to do with the separate 
company he also uses in the Barclays group. The call handler tells him if she raises a 
complaint for him, it would be classed as a duplicate complaint and it would be opened and 
closed. The call handler speaks to another call handler who had previously spoken to Mr L 
and when she returns to Mr L she tells him that there had been crossed wires and she had 
to educate him (the other call handler) about the process for adding to a complaint (as 
opposed to raising a new complaint and it being duplicated). So it appears that a previous 
call handler had given Mr L incorrect information to the point the call handler on 16 February 
had to educate him about their actual process and she apologised to Mr L.
So from this call, it appears that Mr L had asked for the final response letter to be sent to him 
on the Barclays letterhead paper a number of times. This wasnt disputed by the call handler. 
So Im persuaded that on the balance of probabilities Mr L had asked for this to be done 
several times, which hes indicated he has asked them five times. Not only would it cause 
him concern that he was replied to on a different legal entities letterhead, that when he tried 
to get this rectified, which would have been an inconvenience for himself to keep ringing 
Barclays to do this, then this was not actioned until much later. Im satisfied that it was a 
genuine human error which resulted in the letter being sent on different letterheaded paper 
than Barclays, but this would not excuse why it took many attempts to resolve this issue.
I rang the telephone numbers on the letter, which Mr L says goes through to the different 
company, but for me this did go through to Barclays and not the separate company, so I 
cant agree that it was the incorrect number displayed. It may be that Barclays have made 
changes to the telephone number since the responses had been issued, but I cant evidence 
an incorrect number being given to Mr L. And he had previously been given the direct 
telephone number to call from one of the call handlers.
In addition to the phone calls, Ive also looked at the Barclays complaint notes. There have 
been errors made which may explain why Mr L hadnt received the correct letterhead 
paperwork from Barclays, as one of the notes incorrectly confirms it was initially issued on 
the correct letterhead (but it wasnt). Mr L had also sent Barclays more than one email and 
although he had an automated response to say he should expect a reply within 48 hours, 
Barclays did not reply to his emails. The emails were sent to a Barclays email address. 
After Mr L had spoken to Barclays in November 2021, Im persuaded they have let him down several times over the following few months. An expectation was set that he was going to be 
sent information, whether this would be the information from the FCA or their response to 
him to be sent on the correct letterhead. So when this did not happen, it inconvenienced Mr 
L to have to contact Barclays to again request this information. At the very least, he wasnt 
told they hadnt sent out anything about the FCA and cryptocurrency scams or instead 
directed to their website. And he was sent a response to his complaint on a different 
companies letterhead. But when he rung Barclays to get this rectified, this didnt happen until 
months later. 
So Ive considered whether Barclays should pay Mr L compensation for the poor customer 
service they provided him with here. While I cant agree that they made an error in delaying 
some of the payments he tried to make, Im persuaded that they could have delivered on 
what they told him over the phone after the November payment had been made. In the event 
that they couldnt deliver on this, then I would have expected this to be communicated to Mr 
L to ensure Mr L wasnt further inconvenienced by having to ring them again when previous 
expectations had not been met. 
Im persuaded that £100 compensation for poor customer service would reflect the impact 
that the issues Ive documented had on Mr L when he needed to contact Barclays several 
times in order to get the documents he requested (including the FCA information or Barclays 
response on their letterhead). So it follows I intend to ask Barclays to put things right for Mr 
L.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. Mr L made a number of points in 
response to my provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr L said the provisional decision did not reference the terms and conditions 
points he highlighted to our investigator on his email on 29 November 2022, or reference 
Barclays comments on their final response letter dated 3 March 2021 that "...appropriate 
measures have been taken to ensure this does not happen again" in relation to the blocked 
payments, yet genuine payments (which had undergone all the online security measures) 
still continued to be blocked. He also said that Barclays stated that their fraud prevention 
system had been mandated to them by the FCA, and he asked for evidence of this on 
several occasions and he has still not received this. He still wishes to see evidence of this 
from Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the provisional decision not referencing the terms 
and conditions points that he contained in his email to our investigator on 29 November 
2022. In my provisional decision I said the following (which can be found on page 33/34 of 
the terms and the conditions, available on Barclays website):
Ive looked at whether Barclays have acted in line with their personal banking terms and 
conditions here. Im satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their personal terms and 
conditions, shows that there is a list of reasons, including, but not limited to, if they didnt 
think the instruction came from Mr L, where the funds might be obtained through deception, 
if Barclays may break their regulatory duty by making a payment etc, While we are checking 
that none of the reasons above apply, there might be a delay in getting the payment to its 
destination  even if everything turns out to be fine. So Im satisfied that they set out that 
payments can be delayed. Ive considered what Mr L has said about Barclays final response letter saying "...appropriate 
measures have been taken to ensure this does not happen again". But here Im persuaded it 
is the service they were referring to when they said appropriate measures have been taken 
to ensure this does not happen again. I say this as it is in the same sentence where they 
discussed the service on the 9 February phone call. So Im satisfied that this was not in 
relation to the payments themselves for the reasons Ive documented in my decision. 
Ive also considered what Mr L has said about Barclays stating that their fraud prevention 
system has been mandated to them by the FCA, and he hasnt received evidence of this. Im 
persuaded that the reason he has not been provided evidence with this is because while the 
FCA would require financial institutions to have adequate security controls (including fraud 
prevention systems) in place, it would be down to the business themselves what security 
systems they would implement to satisfy the regulator. And that is why they cant send Mr L 
the exact evidence he is wanting. As Mr L was set an expectation that he would receive 
something about this and he didnt, this was factored into my decision.
In summary, Mr Ls response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr L £100 compensation for poor customer service. Im still 
satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr L £100 compensation 
for poor customer service.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman