DRN-1540641
The complaint
Ms F complains that IGO4 Limited pursued her for a debt that wasnt hers after a policy was 
fraudulently taken out in her name. She complains that she told the company she didnt take 
out the policy, but it still pursued her for the debt. 
What happened
In February 2019 Ms Fs personal details were stolen and used to purchase a car insurance 
policy with IGO4. At the end of February, IGO4 emailed Ms F a letter which set out the 
outstanding balance on the account which needed to be paid. However, the email that was 
provided wasnt Ms Fs  and so she never received this letter. 
In early May 2019, after receiving contact from IGO4 and a collections agency, Ms F notified 
IGO4 that she hadnt in fact taken out the policy. She explained that her details had been 
stolen, and that several policies had been taken out in her name. She telephoned IGO4 a 
week later and spoke to a manager, and sent a further email on 19 May explaining that IGO4 
hadnt yet accepted that she wasnt the one who had set up the policy. 
IGO4 didnt immediately act on this letter, so Ms F continued to be pursued for the debt. She 
emailed IGO4 in July 2019 to tell it again that her details had been stolen, and once more in 
in August 2019 to complain about the issue. 
As she received no response to her complaint, she referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators contacted IGO4, who confirmed that it hadnt received Ms Fs 
August 2019 complaint. It looked into it, and acknowledged that it hadnt dealt with the email 
shed sent in May 2019 properly because it hadnt been escalated as it shouldve been. It 
confirmed that her details had been removed and offered her £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused. 
Ms F remained unhappy and asked our service to look into her complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into it, and thought that IGO4s offer wasnt fair. She thought that Ms F 
had been caused a lot of stress and anxiety as a result of its failure to properly escalate the 
email she had sent in May 2019, and the investigator didnt consider £100 was sufficient 
compensation for that. She recommended IGO4 pay Ms F £200. 
IGO4 didnt agree. It said in previous cases, this service had awarded a similar amount of 
compensation. It didnt think the award of £200 was fair and reasonable and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining to IGO4 that each case we look is decided on its own merits. 
This means that Im not bound to follow an ombudsmans decision in another case. In this particular case, I think the issue is even more case specific. DISP 3.7 allows me to 
make a money award where I consider compensation is required for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to a consumer by an act or omission of the business concerned. 
So its clear that even where cases have similar facts or there have been similar errors, the 
impact on the individual consumer may be such that an award is different because of the 
specific circumstances of that individual case. 
In Ms Fs case, I can see that by the time she emailed in May 2019, she had already been 
contacted by IGO4 and the collection agency for the debt. She mentions this in her email 
when she explains that her identity had been stolen and several policies were set up in her 
name. The notes dont indicate anything was done as a result of this email. About a week 
later, Ms F called IGO4 to chase this up and spoke to a manager. She emailed again. 
So IGO4 had three opportunities to take Ms Fs concerns seriously, and do what was 
necessary to cancel the debt, halt any collections activity and amend its records to reflect the 
fact that Ms F wasnt a policyholder. I think this is what Ms F was expecting to happen given 
that she had contacted the business three times. 
Yet Ms F has explained in detail how, throughout the period after she had notified IGO4 that 
the policy wasnt hers, she received several calls from IGO4 about the debt  and contact 
from a collections agency as late as September 2019. This was despite further contact from 
her to IGO4 in July and August 2019. This was four months after she had first correctly 
notified IGO4 that the policy wasnt hers. 
Ms F has also explained in detail how dealing with an issue that was not of her making, and 
that had clearly not been handled correctly by IGO4, had knock on effects on the way she 
managed other areas of her life. And whilst its obvious that IGO4s mistake wasnt the direct 
cause of the other issues Ms F was experiencing at the time, Im persuaded that its failure to 
properly deal with this issue exacerbated the stress Ms F was already experiencing at the 
time. 
IGO4s internal notes show that it only acted on Ms Fs May 2019 email once the matter 
turned into a complaint in September having referred it to this service. I dont think its fair 
that a consumer should go to these lengths to have a matter such as this looked into and put 
right. I say this especially as it took a mere three days for the debt to be cancelled and all 
collections activity and chasers from the business to stop. 
Putting things right
Given Ms Fs personal circumstances, and the length of time it took IGO4 to take the 
required action, Im persuaded that Ms F was caused considerable stress and anxiety, at an 
already challenging time in her life, by IGO4s failures. And Im satisfied, having taken 
everything into account, that a payment of £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
that. 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. IGO4 Limited must pay Ms F £200 within 28 
days of when we tell it Ms F has accepted this final decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman