DRN-2344426
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the overall customer service received from Post Office Management 
Service Limited. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr W bought a travel insurance policy via Post Offices website. He tried to 
download the relevant policy documents, but he was unable to, and received an error 
message each time he tried. Mr W says he tried to call Post Office about this, but couldnt 
get through to anyone. He also emailed using the email address on the website, but the 
email bounced back.  
Unhappy with this, Mr W wrote to Post Office in May 2019, explaining the situation and 
asking to cancel his policy. Having not received a response, he contacted it around a month 
later, and discussed his concerns with a call handler. Following the conversation, Post Office 
says it sent Mr W a letter confirming it had addressed his concerns on the call, and the 
complaint was resolved. Mr W remained unhappy with Post Office and escalated his 
concerns further  experiencing various other issues whilst doing so.
In August 2019, Post Office issued a final response letter to Mr W. It apologised for the 
technical errors on the website. It also apologised that Mr W was unable to get through to 
anyone on the phone, explaining that it may have been due to a high volume of calls 
received because of the time of year. Post Office confirmed that Mr Ws policy had already 
been cancelled and his premiums had been refunded. Unhappy with its response, Mr W 
brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into matters and thought the poor service from Post Office 
wouldve caused Mr W some inconvenience. So, she thought it should pay him £50 
compensation to reflect this. Post Office didnt challenge the investigators recommendation. 
However, Mr W did and didnt think it properly addressed his concerns. So the complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the compensation our investigator has recommended. Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I appreciate Mr Ws experience with Post Offices website wouldve caused him frustration 
and inconvenience. Mr W wasnt able to review the important information associated with the 
policy hed bought, nor was he able to discuss this with Post Office until the call in
June 2019, some weeks later.
During the call in June 2019, the call handler was made aware of the issues Mr W was 
facing with the website, and went some way to resolve these. I say this because his policy 
was cancelled, and the premiums were refunded to him shortly afterwards. While Post Office 
did apologise for these issues, I do think it couldve paid Mr W some compensation here to 
reflect the impact that the matter wouldve had on him.  And, I agree that the £50 
compensation recommended by our investigator fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to 
Mr W.
Following the call in June 2019, I acknowledge that Mr W remained dissatisfied with Post 
Office and continued to raise concerns. But it seems that his original issue about being 
unable to access the policy documents, and being unable to report the issue, were already 
discussed and acknowledged on the call in June 2019. And, as mentioned, Post Office had 
already gone some way to resolve matters. The issues that arose after this point were 
mainly about Post Offices handling of Mr Ws complaint. Its important I explain that 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, or one of the other non-regulated activities that 
this service can consider. So, whilst I acknowledge that Mr W remains dissatisfied with how 
Post Office handled his complaint, its not something I can consider here.
In summary, I agree that the problems Mr W had with Post Offices website wouldve caused 
him stress and inconvenience, and so I think Post Office should pay him £50 to reflect this. 
But, Im unable to review his further concerns about Post Offices handling of his complaint 
as its not something this service can consider.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Post Office Management Service Limited should pay Mr W 
£50 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman