DRN-1782143
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his car insurance claim.
Mr H is being represented in this complaint by his father. For ease of reference, Ill refer to 
both Mr H and his father as Mr H.
What happened
Mr H was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident in August 2019  another car reversed 
into Mr Hs car while it was parked. The claim was dealt with by the third-party insurers (TPI), 
not AXA, And an accident management company (AMC) was instructed to manage the 
claim. The AMC dealt with the repairs to Mr Hs car and provided him with a hire car while 
his car was being repaired.
In December 2019 the AMC told Mr H they were looking to recover the hire car costs from 
the TPI and asked him to co-operate with their solicitors about this. Because Mr H hadnt 
heard anything from AXA about his claim, he called them. This call lasted almost an hour, 
and Mr H was charged £40 by his telephone service provider.
During this call, Mr H was passed to three different advisors. AXA couldnt tell him what was 
happening with his claim  they hadnt heard from the TPI who were dealing with this; and 
they couldnt answer his questions about his no-claims discount (NCD) or policy excess.
AXA have said they couldve done better. They couldve chased the TPI earlier, to find out 
what was happening, and this resulted in Mr H having to make a lengthy and expensive 
phone call to them. So AXA offered Mr H £200 compensation for this, which Mr H rejected. 
Mr H has complained that hes being pursued for hire car costs. Hes also concerned about 
the effect this accident will have on his insurance premium at renewal, and his NCD.
Our investigator explained were only considering the service provided by AXA, not anything 
done by the AMC. She said that, if Mr H was unhappy with the AMC, he would need to raise 
a complaint with them directly.
The investigator found AXA had acted reasonably after the December 2019 call  theyd 
made reasonable attempts to chase the TPI for updates, and this resulted in the claim being 
resolved shortly afterwards. The hire car costs were recovered from the TPI, so Mr H has no 
liability for these. And, because this was recorded as a non-fault accident, itll have no effect 
on Mr Hs NCD or renewal premium. And his excess was waived.
So, the investigator said the £200 offered by AXA was reasonable, and she didnt think they 
should do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. Hes raised some points about the service he 
received from the AMC, which he wasnt happy with. And he thinks AXA shouldve dealt with 
these on his behalf because it was their responsibility to keep him up to date with the claim. 
He also believes AXA instructed the AMC.Hes also unhappy that his renewal premium increased by £17.75; that the figure quoted in 
the investigators view for the hire car costs is actually the car repair costs; and that AXA 
havent confirmed to him that the excess has been waived and his NCD hasnt been 
affected. He doesnt believe these are new complaint points and are a direct consequence of 
the original claim. He also says AXA declined to quote him on his car insurance when he 
contacted them online and tried to obtain a quote as a new customer.
Mr H believes the £200 is inadequate particularly given the cost, time, inconvenience and 
stress  caused and because of additional costs hes incurred. He also thinks AXA acted 
unreasonably by sending him a cheque for this in March 2020, when he hadnt accepted it. 
So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset Mr H has been caused Theres no doubt that non-fault 
accidents are both stressful and inconvenient  due to no fault of your own you need to go 
through the process of having your car repaired and having to deal with a hire car. And 
theres always the worry that liability will be disputed, and/or that your NCD and insurance 
premiums will be affected.
AXA have already admitted they could've done better and have offered Mr H £200 for the 
stress they caused him. But, for me to agree that AXA should increase this compensation, 
Id need to be satisfied that this was insufficient to recognise the impact their service caused 
 not the service of the TPI, the AMC or any stress and inconvenience arising from the 
accident and aftermath itself. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
AXAs letter of 15 August 2019 explained that Mr H had notified them of the accident and 
that they were arranging for their specialist vehicle team to deal with the repairs. AXA also 
explained that you do not have to pay your policy excess and your no claims discount will 
not be affected based on the information you have provided {BUT}should a dispute or 
change in circumstances be received, you may be asked to pay your policy excess and your 
no claims bonus will be affected at a later date.
Ive seen nothing to show me that any dispute or change in circumstances happened, or that 
AXA contacted Mr H to say that he would need to pay the excess and/or his NCD would be 
affected. And because Mr H had been told nothing was affected by the claim, I wouldnt 
expect AXA to write to him and tell him this was still the case  Id only expect them to tell 
him of any changes. AXA have confirmed to us that Mr Hs claim has been recorded as 
non-fault and  the customers NCD has not been affected.
But AXAs specialist vehicle team didnt deal with the claim. Due to his age, Mr H couldnt 
get a hire car through AXAs providers. It was at this point the AMC stepped in and took over 
the management of the claim. And Ive seen nothing to show me that the AMC were 
instructed to do this by AXA.The AMC contacted Mr H about the hire car costs, which prompted his call to AXA in 
December 2019. I wouldve expected AXA to deal with things like the hire car costs, if theyd 
been dealing with the claim. But they werent. The claim was being dealt with by the AMC. 
Ive seen nothing to show me that AXA were aware the AMC had contacted Mr H about the 
hire car costs, before Mr H called them about this. So I cant say AXA have done something 
wrong by not acting on something they werent aware of.
Because the TPI were dealing with the claim through the AMC, theyd not kept AXA up to 
date with what was happening. While I cant hold AXA responsible for the actions of the TPI, 
I agree they still had a responsibility to chase the TPI, so they knew what was happening. 
And they didnt do this until Mr H called them in December 2019. 
Because AXA didnt instruct the AMC, I wont be holding then responsible for the service Mr 
H received from the AMC. As the investigator said, this is something hell need to raise 
separately with the AMC. And if he remains unhappy with their response, he can bring this to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
The call to AXA in December 2019 was expensive  it cost Mr H £40. And he says he 
incurred further costs as a result of what happened. I havent seen anything to show what 
these costs were, or how they were incurred as a direct result of AXAs actions or inactions. 
So I cant say that AXA should increase their compensation to cover these costs. Based on 
what Ive seen, I agree that the £200 AXA have offered is reasonable to compensate Mr H 
for their service failings and the costs of the calls he made to them. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
AXA sent Mr H a cheque for £200 after receiving the investigators view. While they 
shouldnt necessarily have done this, because Mr H didnt agree with that view; its now for 
Mr H to decide whether to accept the £200 or not.
Mr H said his renewal premium has increased by £17.75. Insurance premiums are based on 
a number of things. A companys risk factors, and their appetite for certain risks, can change 
and this will mean premiums can increase or decrease. A premium increase is not solely 
because of a previous claim. And as AXA have recorded this as a non-fault claim, I cant 
agree with Mr H that AXA have only increased his premium because of this claim.
Mr H also said he tried to obtain a renewal quote online through AXA, as a new customer, 
and they wouldn't quote him. When requesting an online quote you have to put in certain 
personal details, and details of the vehicle you want to insure. From this AXA wouldve been 
able to identify that they already insured the car. So this wasnt a new customer quote. 
Because Mr H didnt meet the criteria of a new customer, and instead was a current existing 
customer of AXA, I dont think they did anything wrong by not quoting him on these terms. 
Finally, the figure quoted by the investigator for the hire car costs was actually the figure for 
the cost of the repairs. I apologise for this error. I dont know what the hire car costs were, so 
I cant confirm them. But AXA have confirmed the claim is now closed, and this includes 
resolution of the hire car costs. So Mr H isnt responsible for these costs and he shouldnt be 
chased for them.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman