DRN-3173335
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled an international transfer from 
her account. 
She feels shes lost out as a result of its actions. She wants HSBC to refund the charges she 
incurred and she wants assurances that the next international transfer will go through 
without any problems.
What happened
On 29 December 2020, Ms H rang HSBC to arrange an international transfer of £18,599.52 
from her HSBC account to her account in Belize. She actioned the transfer whilst she spoke 
on the phone to an adviser at HSBC. She was concerned about the transaction being 
successful and wanted assurances from the adviser that it would go through. The adviser 
told her that, if she was using the same details that she used the previous year when a 
similar transaction had been made that was successful, then it was likely that this transaction 
would also be successful.
Ms H decided to go ahead with the transaction.
In February 2021, Ms H found that the transaction had been unsuccessful. £17,740.73 was 
credited back to her account. This meant that she lost £858.79.
Ms H rang HSBC to find out what had happened. She was told that she had lost the money 
due to shared charges for the cross-currency and the currency exchange rate in returning 
the payment when it hadnt been paid into her account in Belize. She lodged a complaint as 
she wanted HSBC to refund the money to her that she had lost. She felt that the fault for 
losing the money fell with HSBC because they had assured her that the money would be 
transferred. Also, there hadnt been a problem when she had transferred a similar amount of 
money in 2019.
HSBC didnt accept that they were at fault, so Ms H brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator found that HSBC werent to blame for the transaction not going through. He 
said that the fault probably lay with the intermediary bank in America where the currency had 
been exchanged. He tried to find out from them what had happened and why the money had 
been returned. Unfortunately, he wasnt able to get a response from them and suggested 
that Ms H follow this up.
He also found that there werent any suggestions that he could make to HSBC to ensure that 
a similar transaction was successful in the future, because HSBC didnt have any control 
over what happened at the intermediary bank which is where he thought the fault lay.
Ms H wasnt happy with this outcome, so the complaint has now come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that £858.79 is a lot of money to pay for a failed transaction. Especially as 
Ms H has said that this can equate to a months pension for her. But Im afraid that I dont 
think that HSBC is to blame for this loss of money. I will explain why.
Ms H has said that HSBC told her that there had been problems with international payments. 
Ive looked through the transcript of the call that Ms H has provided us with and seen notes 
of two other phone calls that Ms H had with HSBC. I cant find any evidence of there being 
problems with international payments,, so I am unable to say that HSBC were aware of a 
problem that they shouldve warned Ms H about before she actioned the payment.
I can see that the majority of the £858.79 comes from the exchange rate applied when the 
money was returned to Ms Hs account. So, I would only find HSBC responsible for paying 
this if they had made a mistake in actioning the transfer. But I cant see that they did. HSBC 
say that the money wouldve been sent to an intermediary bank in the USA as the money 
was to be exchanged into US dollars before being transferred to Ms Hs Belize bank 
account. I can see that the money did go to an intermediary bank and that it was this bank 
that didnt process the payment. HSBC has shown to me a SWIFT message (SWIFT is a 
secure messaging system) from the intermediary bank stating that they have recredited Ms 
Hs account. HSBC had no say in this so they cant be blamed for it.
I then looked to see if HSBC were wrong in using that particular intermediary bank, but I cant 
see that they were. HSBC state that its the beneficiary bank (in this case, the Belize bank) 
that chooses which intermediary bank to use. They gave me the following explanation, which 
I accept:
The intermediary banks are held on an independent system, known as Bankers Almanac. 
Each bank updates Bankers Almanac to let every other bank know who their intermediary 
is.
As the beneficiary bank chooses the Intermediary bank and the funds were returned by 
them, we cannot guarantee the payment will be successful if made again.
So, I cant find that HSBC at fault here as they didnt choose the intermediary bank.
Ive checked to see if Ms H was told what would happen if the transaction failed. HSBC 
provided an application template similar to the one Ms H wouldve used to complete the 
transfer online, and this states:
Please be aware that once your payment has been confirmed it is not possible for it be 
recalled or cancelled. Also, if this payment cannot be made or is returned by the foreign 
bank for any reason, the payment will be reversed. If there has been movement in exchange 
rates which leads to a gain or a loss, this will be passed on to your account.
Taking this into account, I find that HSBC told her that, if the transaction failed, the money 
would be returned to her and that any movement in the exchange rate resulting in a gain or 
loss would be passed onto her. So, had the exchange rate been in her favour, Ms H 
wouldve made a gain from the failed transaction. Unfortunately, this didnt happen and Ms H 
suffered a loss instead. But, as HSBC warned her about this, I cant find that they allowed 
Ms H to go ahead with a transaction when she wasnt aware that it would cost her so much 
even if it was unsuccessful.Ms H asks that HSBC guarantee that any future international transactions she makes go 
through. HSBC has already stated (see above) that they cannot guarantee that payments 
will be successful if made again. I cant see how HSBC could practically give a guarantee 
and I dont think thats necessary to resolve this specific complaint. I can understand how 
this may result in Ms H losing confidence in the process and not wanting to use HSBC again 
for similar transactions. But Im afraid that the only option then would be for Ms H to look for 
other ways of sending the money.
So, all things considered, I cant see that HSBC has done anything wrong.
I know that this isnt the outcome that Ms H hoped for and I am sorry for this.
My final decision
I cant find fault in how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with this transaction. So, I dont require 
HSBC to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2022.
 
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman