DRN-2214363
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd 
(Berkshire). She isnt happy that she was asked to pay her excess following a claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was hit by a third-party while she was stationary, and she made a claim under 
her car insurance policy. Once her car was repaired she wasnt happy that she was asked to 
pay her excess by the repairing garage. Although she was aware that an excess was due 
under the policy she doesnt feel Berkshire acted fairly as it didnt tell her that her excess 
was due at the time she made the claim. 
Berkshire looked into her complaint and said sorry for not telling her that her excess was due 
when she made the claim. And it offered to waive her compulsory excess (£100) but felt that 
she needed to pay her voluntary excess (£250) which she agreed to when she took out the 
policy. As Miss B remained unhappy she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he could 
understand Miss Bs frustration about not being told her excess was due at the time of claim 
he thought that the policy was clear that her excess was due. And he thought that 
Berkshires offer to refund the compulsory excess (£100) as it didnt make everything clear to 
her when she made her claim was fair. 
As Miss B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Bs frustration as she expected Berkshire to tell her that her excess 
was due (and how much she was expected to pay) when she made her claim. And she 
wondered whether she wouldnt have to pay her excess at all as she didnt think the accident 
was her fault. 
But her excess was always due when she made a claim under the policy which Miss B was 
aware of. And although Berkshire shouldve made it clear that she was due to pay her £350 
excess (£100 compulsory excess and £250 voluntary excess) when she made the claim I 
think she couldve asked about this as well. I say this as it is clear that she was aware an 
excess was due under her policy.
I can also understand why Miss B thought that she wouldnt have to pay an excess if the 
incident wasnt her fault but that isnt how her insurance policy works. Under Miss Bs policy, 
in line with nearly all motor insurance policies, Miss B was always due to pay her excess that 
was due under the policy. However, I must highlight that she can approach the third-party 
insurer direct to ask for her excess back from them if the claim is settled non-fault. 
So, although it is a shame that Berkshire wasnt clearer at the beginning of the claim that 
Miss B would have to pay her excess I think its offer of waiving part of the excess (£100) 
seems fair. I know this will be a disappointment to Miss B (although she may well be able to 
claim the remainder back from the other drivers insurer). But I dont think Berkshire has 
acted unreasonably in asking Miss B to pay part of her excess and waiving the compulsory 
part in acknowledgement of its poor communication about this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman