DRN-2665587
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he cancelled the motor insurance policy hed arranged through 
Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd, he was charged a cancellation fee and an 
administration fee which he thinks is unfair.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr H bought insurance online for his car. His policy is administered by 
Acorn. Mr H paid in full for a years insurance cover. Some weeks after doing this he found 
cover elsewhere that was substantially cheaper, so he cancelled the policy hed arranged 
through Acorn. As hed cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period he was charged a 
cancellation fee of £50 and an administration fee of £92.50. The remainder of the premium 
hed paid was returned to him.
Mr H was unhappy with the fees hed been charged and complained to Acorn. They said the 
fees charged if a policy was cancelled are clearly set out online, as was the administration 
fee, and form part of the terms and conditions Mr H agreed to when he bought his policy. But 
as a gesture of goodwill they refunded £25, 50% of the cancellation fee. 
Mr H remained unhappy, as he said other companies didnt charge administration fees, and 
he complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said the policy terms 
and conditions, which Mr H had agreed to, clearly set out that if a policy was cancelled 
between 15 and 30 days after purchase, a cancellation fee of £50 was payable, together 
with an administration fee of £92.50. Mr H had cancelled his policy within this period, so 
these fees were correctly payable. Acorn had agreed to refund 50% of the cancellation fee, 
which our investigator considered reasonable. And he didnt ask them to do anything further, 
as theyd done nothing wrong.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the administration and cancellation fees payable were clearly set out, 
as part of the terms and conditions that Mr H agreed to when he purchased his policy online. 
Acorn have provided a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr H on 11 January 2021 
together with his policy schedule and terms and conditions. 
The welcome letter clearly states, at the bottom of the first page, that the premium Mr H paid 
included a non-refundable administration fee of £92.50. And the policy terms and conditions 
include full details of how the policy can be cancelled together with the applicable fees. In 
respect of cancellation between 15 and 30 days after purchase, the fee is £50, which is what 
Mr H was charged.
Mr H has said that other companies dont charge cancellation fees or administration fees. I 
dont agree, as its usual for a cancellation fee to be payable if an insurance policy is 
cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period. The purpose of this period is to allow the 
customer time to ensure the policy is suitable for them. If Mr H had cancelled his policy with 
this period, then a fee wouldnt have been payable. But he didnt, he waited almost 30 days 
before cancelling, so he was charged £50, the amount set out in the terms and conditions 
hed agreed to. When he complained Acorn agreed to refund £25, 50% of the cancellation 
fee, which they werent required to do, as theyd done nothing wrong. So Im not going to ask 
them to do anything further.
The administration fee Mr H was charged is clearly stated on page one of the welcome letter 
he received, as well as being set out in the online terms and conditions he agreed to. The 
fee is said to non-refundable, and I dont think its excessive. And Acorn were entitled to 
deduct this fee from the premium they refunded to Mr H when he cancelled his policy, so 
they did nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
against Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman