DRN-3154083
The complaint
Miss B complains that a mobile phone that shed ordered using her credit account with JD 
Williams & Company Limited wasnt delivered to her.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B and to JD Williams on 8 October 
2021 in which I described what had happened as follows:
Miss B ordered a mobile phone from JD Williams using her credit account with it in 
May 2020. When she received the delivery she says that the phone wasnt in the 
box. She contacted JD Williams later that day and then made a complaint to it. It said 
that the item was sent and signed for, and that its warehouse had confirmed that it 
ensures the products are sealed and any issues wouldve been reported to its team 
leaders. Miss B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that it was more likely than not that the phone was delivered to Miss B in line with her 
agreement with JD Williams and he didnt think that it had been unreasonable in 
reporting negative information on Miss Bs credit file or that it would be reasonable to 
expect it to remove that information.
Miss B has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She doesnt 
agree with our investigators findings and says that shes very upset that shes more 
or less being called a liar and a thief.
My provisional findings were as follows:
In complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss B accepts that she received and signed for the delivery but says that when she 
opened the box the phone was missing. Shes provided a photo showing what she 
received and she contacted JD Williams the same day about the missing phone. 
Shes consistently said that the phone wasnt in the box, shes entered into a contract 
with a mobile phone company for a replacement phone and shes suggested actions 
that JD Williams could take to investigate what happened to the phone. I dont 
consider that theres much more that she could do to show that the phone wasnt 
delivered to her.
JD Williams says that the phone was sent and signed for, and that its warehouse has 
confirmed that it ensures that products are sealed and any issues wouldve been 
reported to its team leaders. The phone has since been activated and Miss B has 
made suggestions about what could be done to investigate what happened to it. I 
consider that JD Williams is in a better position than Miss B to investigate that, but 
hasnt done so.
Its possible that the phone wasnt put in the box during the manufacturing process or 
that the phone was removed from the box between manufacturing and delivery to JD 
Williams, when it was in its possession or between dispatch to Miss B and delivery to 
her. JD Williams has rejected all of those possibilities and had said that the phone 
was delivered to Miss B despite there being no evidence to conclusively prove that 
the phone was in the box.
Im not persuaded that JD Williams has done as much as it could reasonably have 
done to investigate whether or not the phone was delivered to Miss B and to take the 
actions that have been suggested by Miss B - and its chosen to hold her responsible 
for the phone even though she says that she didnt receive it. Im not persuaded that 
its provided enough evidence to show that its more likely than not that Miss B did 
receive the phone and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for JD Williams to charge Miss B for the phone.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to rework Miss Bs credit account 
to remove the charge for the phone. That would include refunding any late payment 
or other fees and interest relating to the charge for the mobile phone and to pay 
interest to Miss B as set out below.
I also consider that it should ensure that no adverse information relating to the 
charge for the phone is recorded on Miss Bs credit file (and that it should remove 
any such information that it has already recorded on her credit file). These events will 
have caused distress and inconvenience for Miss B. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to pay her £100 to compensate her for that distress and 
inconvenience.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss B or JD Williams, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Miss B has accepted my provisional 
decision. JD Williams has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but hasnt 
responded to it other than that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss B has accepted my provisional decision and JD Williams hasnt provided any 
comments in response to it, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for JD Williams to take the 
actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I order JD Williams & Company Limited 
to:
1. Rework Miss Bs credit account as if the charge for the phone hadnt been made in 
May 2020, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual rate 
of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit. It 
should also refund the credit balance to Miss B.
2. If Miss B has repaid the charge for the phone (or any part of it) to JD Williams but 
doesnt have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that shes repaid at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
3. Ensure that no adverse information about the charge for the phone is recorded on 
Miss Bs credit file.
4. Pay £100 compensation to Miss B for the distress and inconvenience that shes been 
caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any interest payments 
referred to above. JD Williams must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman