DRN-3420588
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a decision by John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) 
not to uphold a claim she made to them for the return of her full deposit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs S has been represented by her husband at times but for ease, and because the contract 
was in Mrs Ss name, Ill only refer to her in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim or a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). That section explains that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The contract with the supplier said:
cancelling may incur a charge for the return of any goods bought in anticipation of the 
manufacture.
And, when Mrs S cancelled the order a couple of days before the door went into production, 
the supplier deducted almost £600 of the deposit to cover the costs of glass and ironwork. 
Whilst I can understand that represented a significant portion of the deposit, it doesnt 
represent a breach of contract as the contract explained there may be a deduction for 
materials.
In those circumstances I dont think John Lewis have been unreasonable when rejecting 
Mrs Ss claim as there was no breach of contract.
And, in those circumstances, for the same reasons, John Lewis wouldnt have been able to 
make a successful chargeback claim to the chargeback scheme providers (Mastercard).
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman