DRN-1671375
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Miss C payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss C says that she was pressed and bullied into taking PPI and she was told she had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is what is more likely than not to 
have happened. But, because of the need for fairness, the person bringing the complaint 
needs to present reasonable evidence on which I can base that decision. It could be unfair to 
make Bank of Scotland prove it didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a 
long time ago  and Im also conscious that this happened about 15 years ago, and it is 
possible that memories about the exact details could have faded.
And the problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel theyve no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, 
the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt 
be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this.
I realise it would be very difficult for Miss C to now find extra evidence to prove what she is 
saying. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in this way. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss C, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Miss Cs 
particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss Cs situation at the time: 
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties.
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss C received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Miss C 
would need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying 
the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Miss C in a more secure 
position, if shed lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss C 
would have been affected by any of these
Its likely Miss C was eligible for the policy, so should have been able to make a claim 
if necessary. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Miss C took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Miss Cs sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman