DRN-1578910
The complaint
Mr K complains about the customer service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when he 
had an issue with a cash machine.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr K had two issues with cash machines where he says he didn't receive 
the cash he requested.
On 1 August 2019, Mr K took £300 out of a cash point but says he didn't receive the funds. A 
few days later Mr K called TSB to let it know that he hadn't received that cash and a dispute 
was logged shortly after. During this call, Mr K was told that the funds would usually be 
refunded to his account within two working days and as he had called at the weekend, he 
could expect it by the Tuesday. The transaction was refunded to Mr Ks bank account on 5 
August 2019, within the agreed timescales.
Later the same day Mr K called TSB to let it know that he had tried to remove the £300 from 
a different cash point and that he had not received the cash. A new dispute was logged and 
the agent told him that if no further investigation was required then the funds would be 
credited to his account within two working days.
Mr K called back the following day to chase the second refund and was told that there were 
no updates and that it could take up to 15 working days if further investigation was needed. 
Mr K continued to call TSB periodically and was told that it was waiting for a response from 
the ATM provider.
Mr K is unhappy with the customer service and incorrect information he says he was given 
when he logged these disputed transactions. He says he had to make a lot of calls to find 
out what was happening with his funds, that he didn't receive call backs when he had been 
promised and that he was given incorrect information.
Our investigator considered the customer service Mr K had received throughout this time 
and thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr K hadn't been given clear 
information about what was happening with these investigations, and he hadn't always 
received a good level of customer service. So she thought TSB should pay Mr K £150 
compensation and reimburse the cost of the calls, which Mr K says came to around £40 - 
£50.
TSB didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks complaint centres around the customer service Mr K received during the course of 
the investigations. But he hasn't complained about the outcome of the investigations and when the complaint was referred to this service, TSB hadn't responded to the second 
dispute, so I havent commented on that as part of this decision.
TSB hasn't provided all the calls Mr K had with it between July 2019 and October 2019, but it 
has provided us with a large selection, which I have listened to. Throughout these calls, I 
havent heard any of TSBs agents tell Mr K that this dispute would be resolved in 24 hours. 
It did however tell him that he would receive a refund within two working days if no further 
investigation was required. In this case, further investigation was required, and TSB needed 
more information from the ATM provider before it could make a decision on the outcome of 
his claim.
Mr K was repeatedly told that, if further investigation was required, the claim would take up 
to 15 working days. I cant see that TSB resolved the issue within 15 working days and I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr K was given an update about what was happening with 
the claim or the reasons for the delay. Mr K made it clear during his conversations with TSB 
that he needed these funds for his rent and that he had lost his housing as a result of this 
issue. And while I can understand that TSB needed to wait for information from a third party 
before making a decision, given the situation Mr K was in, I think it could have been more 
proactive in arranging updates for Mr K.
Mr K called TSB repeatedly to find out what was happening with both the claim and the 
complaint that he had raised. From the evidence I have, it seems that there were around 20 
calls during the months following the claims. Having listened to the content of most of the 
calls, Mr K had been repeatedly told that he would be contacted and I cant see thats 
happened. 
I have also heard that the customer service Mr K received during two of the calls was 
extremely poor. During a call on 16 September 2019, the agent repeatedly sighed when 
Mr K was talking, which eventually led to Mr K pointing the issue out and terminating the call. 
I have also heard a call from 6 October 2019 where, again, the agents tone was rude. So I 
dont think Mr K received the service he should have during these calls. So taking everything 
into account, I think TSB should pay Mr K a total of £150 compensation for the way it 
handled his claim.
Mr K repeatedly told TSB that the telephone calls were costing him a lot of money and that 
he would like the cost of the calls reimbursed. But TSB didn't address this point and didn't 
provide him with a free phone number or an offer of a call back. I dont think Mr K would 
have had to call as much as he did if TSB had kept him updated with what had happened, so 
I think TSB should reimburse the cost of Mr Ks calls. Mr K says he spent around £40 - £50 
on telephone credit to allow him to make the calls but hasn't been able to provide any 
evidence of this. I have considered the length of the calls I listened to and the fact there were 
calls that I wasn't provided with and, given the length of those calls, I dont think the amount 
Mr K has estimated he spent on calls is unreasonable. So I think TSB should reimburse Mr 
Ks call costs of £50.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr K a total of 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman