DRN-3680439
The complaint
Miss H, through her representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money, lent to her when she could not afford it. Miss H says that she had to borrow 
to make the Madison repayments.
What happened
Using information from Madison here is a brief loan table.
Date taken Total Amount 
due to 
MadisonTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
received by 
Miss HDate repaid
30/08/2016 £2,891.04 24 months £120.46 £1,500.00 15/12/2017
Gap in the lending
29/07/2018 £1,685.70 18 months £93.65 £1,000.00 28/09/2018
18/11/2018 £1,891.20 24 months £78.80 £1,000.00 22/02/2019
After Miss H had complained, Madison sent to her its final response (FRL) in which it did not
uphold her complaint. Miss H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
where one of our adjudicators looked at it. His view was that Madison ought not to have lent
to Miss H at all but Madison disagreed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
20 September 2022 in which I gave reasons why I considered that Madison ought to put 
things right for Ms H for loan 1 but not loans 2 and 3.
Both parties were given time to come back to me and both have replied to say that they 
accept my provisional decision.
So, what is set out below is my final decision which is the same outcome based on the same 
reasoning as that given in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether 
Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss H would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Miss H wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss H and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss H. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Following my provisional decision, Ive carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence 
and information provided in this context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
I do not consider that Madison ought to have lent to Miss H for loan 1. But there was a 
significant gap before Miss H applied for loan 2 which I do not think our adjudicator 
addressed. I think it was enough of a gap for me to consider it reasonable that Madison 
approached Miss H as a new customer for loan 2. 
I also think that for loans 2 and 3, Madisons checks were proportionate and it lent 
responsibly. I explain in in more detail  here - this final decision contains all the findings 
I made in my provisional decision.Loan 1
Miss H had declared to Madison her income and her expenditure. For a new customer I think 
that it could have relied on the information it had from Miss H together with its own research 
such as the credit search it carried out. But, Miss H was applying for a £3,500 loan and there 
are some details in that credit search Madison carried out which I would have expected it to 
have picked up on and factor into Miss Hs application. 
In fact  I think it may have done this, as it reduced the amount it was willing to lend to 
£1,500. But reducing the amount of a loan is not necessarily the right approach if Madison 
may have considered that her credit situation was challenging  as I think it was when she 
applied in August 2016.
I know that Miss H has sent to us bank account statements but I agree with Madison I would 
not always expect a lender to ask to look at and review bank statements. Here I did use 
them to identify an entry on the credit search results which was listed as an Advance 
against Income. I could see Miss H had taken it a couple of months before applying for the 
first Madison loan. It had not been paid off and was increasing in its balance since
June 2016 to August 2016. And it is this entry which is one of the factors that has led me to 
conclude that Miss H would have found it challenging to repay to Madison loan 1. 
The nature of that Advance against income loan was that usually it is repaid quickly and 
I could see that the £300 loan which was advanced to her on 16 June 2016 had increased to 
£376 and the account had been updated on the credit file on 1 August 2016 so this was a 
very up-to-date record. Either Miss H was not repaying it or still had it ahead of her to repay. 
Either way this was a significant loan to take account of before lending.
In addition to this, our adjudicator was correct when he identified that Miss H was over her 
credit limit on her overdraft and on at least one credit card. Miss Hs application had been for 
a £3,500 loan and Miss H had declared her income was £1,493 and gave the following as 
her monthly expenditure:
Home costs £462, council tax £98, utilities £69, food £100, card and loan payments £165.
I think those figures looked broadly correct save that the Advance against income loan was 
going to cost her a lot more  around £376  and her declaration of £100 a month for food 
was far too low to be believable. 
And the fact that Miss H was over her limit on her overdraft and on at least one credit card 
suggests to me that she actually had no spare cash at all and no available credit space to be 
able to repay Madison £120 a month over 24 months.
I uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan 1.
Loans 2 and 3.
As I have said earlier, there was a significant gap between Loan 1 being repaid early (it was 
repaid after 14 months rather than 24 months) and loan 2. Notionally I think that Madison 
would have acted reasonably to treat Miss H as a new customer when she came back for 
loan 2.
Miss H was applying for £1,000 over 18 months and I think it was fine for Madison to have 
relied on the information Miss H gave to it together with its own research. Miss H had declared an income of around £1,290 and her monthly outgoings looked broadly correct. 
And I say this because although she had taken on a second residential mortgage, her other 
loan and credit commitments were very low  around £361 of total balances on loans and 
instalment credit accounts. This was information taken from the credit search Madison
carried out.
And although her declared monthly food cost of £60 was far too low to be believable, even if 
Madison had increased that figure a great deal, still I think Miss H was in a position where
I think Madison would have realised she could afford the repayments of around £93 a month 
after having carried out proportionate checks.
So, I do not to uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan 2.
Loan 2 was paid off after a couple of months - 16 months earlier than scheduled.
As for loan 3, it was applied for just a couple of months after repaying loan 2. And it was an 
application for the same amount - £1,000  albeit over a longer period of 24 months. But the 
information Miss H gave to Madison plus its own credit search would have been enough and 
I think it carried out a proportionate check. 
That credit search did reveal that her loans balance had increased but her overdraft had 
been extinguished and she had reduced her overdraft limit to £50. I consider that to have 
been a deliberate reduction of that debt and a positive change.
And reviewing the credit search results I think that Madison was correct to have calculated 
that Miss H would have been able to afford the third loan at £78 a month. One additional 
aspect I think it would have been correct for Madison to have considered before approving 
loan 3 was that Miss H had repaid loan 2 early.
So, I do not to uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan 3.
As I outlined at the beginning of this decision, both parties have agreed with the outcome 
I gave in my provisional decision. So, this is my final decision and is the same outcome for 
the same reasons.
Putting things right
I direct that Madison puts things right for Miss H for loan 1 only. I understand that all three 
loans have been repaid. It should:
refund all interest and charges Miss H paid on loan 1
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest* and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loan 1 from Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and I direct that Madison CF UK 
Ltd does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman