DRN-3034159
The complaint
Mr B complains about how One Insurance Limited dealt with his claim when his car was
stolen in May 2020. And that his claim was declined.  
What happened
Mr B had comprehensive insurance cover for his car with One Insurance. On 30 May 2020
Mr Bs car was stolen from his drive where it had been parked overnight. He reported the
theft to the police and notified One Insurance.
Theres no dispute that the car was stolen. The day after it was taken the police notified Mr B
that it had been caught on a traffic camera a couple of miles from his home. Mr B and his
wife decided to cycle to the area where the car had been seen to see if they could find it. As
they were cycling Mr B received a call from the police about the paperwork for his car, and
the officer he spoke told him his car hadnt been located. Mr B updated him about the car
being spotted and what he and his wife were doing. He was told to call the police to recover
the car if they did locate it.
Shortly after this Mrs B spotted the car parked outside a block of flats. Mr B called the police
to say he needed assistance as hed located his stolen car. The police didnt arrive and, as it
seemed the car was being watched, Mr and Mrs B returned home. Mr B called the police
later that day to see if theyd sent anyone to recover his car and was told they hadnt. The
following day a neighbour drove Mr B back to where the car had been parked, but it had
been moved.
On 3 June 2020 Mr B received two calls from the police. The first was to tell him his car
hadnt been located. But the second, a couple of hours later from a different officer, was to
notify him that his car had been involved in an accident while being pursued by the police.
The driver had hit three parked cars, Mr Bs car had been badly damaged, was undriveable
and had been taken to the police pound. Mr B provided a statement to the police on 6 June
2020. And the following day he was advised by the police that the woman driving his car
when it crashed had been arrested and charged with a number of offences.
Mr B reported the theft of his car to One Insurance on 31 May 2020. On 2 June 2020 they
called him to say the information hed provided hadnt been recorded due to a system error,
and he had to provide this again. During the call Mr B updated them about locating his stolen
car, but not being able to retrieve as the police didnt attend. He called One Insurance again
on 4 June to advise them of what the police had told him, about the car being involved in an
accident.
On 9 June 2020 Mr B received two calls from One Insurance about the keys to his car. On
15 June 2020 he received an email from them advising him that his car was a total loss and
requesting the original documentation for the car and the keys. Mr B sent these to them by
recorded delivery on 16 June 2020.
When Mr Bs car was recovered after the accident the driver had been using a BMW key
which was recovered by the police with the car. One Insurance had several conversations
with Mr B about the keys to his car. He told them he had two set of keys which were often,
although not always, left on his kitchen table when not in use. Following the theft of his car
he was only able to find one set of keys, but he wasnt sure when hed last seen the other
set.
One Insurance then contacted Mr B to try and establish how the thieves could have obtained
the key. The police had told them in early July 2020 that there was no record of a house key
being attached to the car key they recovered. Mr B didnt know how the thieves could have
obtained the key, but he suggested the thieves could have stolen it from his kitchen, before
they stole the car. Mr B sent One Insurance a photo of his kitchen showing the windows and
the table hed said the keys were usually left on.
The case was put on hold by One Insurance pending further investigations. Mr B called them
several times during July and August 2020 for an update. He eventually spoke to them on 20
August 2020 when he was told they were concerned about the thieves being able to gain
access to his kitchen to steal his keys. Mr B told One Insurance that the house was locked at
night, but he couldnt say for certain that a window hadnt been left open. He said when he
discovered his car was missing, his main concern was to notify the police, and he didnt
know at the time a key might have been taken, so hed not checked his windows.
Mr B wasnt convinced that the key the thieves had used was his. So at the end of August
2020 One Insurance decided to obtain a report from BMW, to establish whether the key
recovered with the car was one of the original keys.
Mr B was concerned that One Insurance had waited so long to obtain this report. And on 
1 September 2020 he raised a complaint about the delay and how theyd handled his claim.
On 2 September 2020 One Insurance received a report on the key from a BMW approved
garage. This said they couldnt say if the key theyd tested was an original key. But it was
linked to the car and had last been used to start the car on 3 June 2020. 
On 25 September 2020 Mr B received a letter from One Insurance declining his claim. They
said theyd carried out a detailed investigation of his claim and concluded that the key used
by the thieves was one of the original keys to his car, which had been taken from his house.
And hed breached the terms and conditions of his policy as he hadnt taken reasonable
precautions to protect his car from damage or loss, as hed left his keys on his kitchen table
and, as there was no sign of a forced entry, he must have left his kitchen windows unlocked.
One Insurance didnt respond to Mr Bs complaint, so he complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case. He said there was no dispute that Mr Bs car had been 
stolen which was an event covered by his policy. But he didnt think there was enough
evidence to show Mr B hadnt protected his car from damage and loss.
He said One Insurance had claimed the thieves had obtained one of the original keys to Mr
Bs car, either because hed left it in the car, or hed left a kitchen window unlocked and
theyd gained access to his house and stolen the keys. But BMW hadnt been able to say the
key recovered with the car was one of the original keys.
He accepted what Mr B had said throughout, that he wouldnt have left his keys in the car. If
the thieves had stolen Mr Bs spare set of keys, our investigator thought it more likely that
theyd been stolen through an open kitchen window. And he didnt think that leaving a
kitchen window could be considered negligent, as its a common occurrence. So he didnt
think One Insurance had shown they could rely on the exclusion in Mr Bs policy to decline
his claim.And he said One Insurance should honour Mr Bs claim for his car and pay him £250
compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
Mr B was happy with our investigators opinion. But One Insurance didnt accept it, as they
maintain Mr B failed to protect his car from loss. So the case came to me for a decision.
Since our investigator provided his opinion, weve asked One Insurance to provide a copy of 
the report they obtained from BMW. Weve asked both parties whether the police have been
able to provide any further evidence about the key found with Mr Bs car. And weve asked
Mr B to provide evidence of any expenses hes incurred while hes been without his car.
One Insurance have provided us with a copy of the report from an approved BMW garage on
the key recovered with Mr Bs car. This confirms that the key was linked to the car, as it had
been used to drive it on 3 June 2020. But the garage was unable to say if it was one of the
original keys to Mr Bs car.
Mr B has told us that the police havent been able to provide any information about the key
found with his car, or how the thieves obtained this. And hes been told that the ongoing
proceedings against the thieves have yet to be concluded.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 August 2021. And in it I said: -
Mr Bs complaint is that his claim was declined by One Insurance, but its also about how
theyve dealt with his claim, including the time it took for them to reach their decision.
There can be no dispute that Mr Bs car was stolen. It was recovered by the police after it
was involved in an accident. A key was recovered with the car which One Insurance
maintain was one of Mr Bs original keys, which they say hed either left in the car, or had
been stolen from his house through an open window.
Mr B has said throughout, and I accept his evidence, that he wouldnt have left his keys in
the car. Hes told us that his car key had a house key attached to it, which presumably he
used to get into his house, after parking his car. And when not in use, he says his keys were
normally left on his kitchen table.
One Insurance say that even if he didnt leave his keys in the car, he was negligent in
leaving them on his kitchen table, from where the thieves were able to steal them. So his
claim was declined on the basis that he was in breach of his policy conditions, as he failed to
protect his car from loss or damage.
Ive considered the photograph Mr B provided of his kitchen showing the windows and the
position of the kitchen table. While I think it would be possible for someone to enter the
kitchen, through an open window, theres no evidence that this happened. And I dont
consider it negligent to either leave a window open in your home, when its occupied, or
leave your keys on a table. These are both events occurring countless times every day.
And theres no evidence that Mr Bs car keys were ever stolen. The report from the BMW
garage didnt say the key the police recovered was one of the original keys to the car. It only
said that it was used to drive it on 3 June 2020. Without clear evidence that Mr Bs keys
were stolen I dont think its fair for One Insurance to say Mr B breached his policy
conditions.
ICOBS (Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook) says that insurers must (rule 8.1.1(1))
handle claims promptly and fairly and must (rule 8.1.1(3)) not unreasonably reject a claim. In
this case I dont think theyve followed either of these rules. There were delays and errors intheir handling of his claim, and Mr Bs claim was declined when Im not persuaded that the
evidence One Insurance have relied upon, supports their belief that the thieves were able to
gain access to his keys.
So I think One Insurance should pay Mr Bs claim for his stolen car.
Mr Bs car was stolen on 30 May 2020. One Insurance believed hed been negligent in
allowing his keys to be stolen. But they didnt request a report on the key recovered with the
car until late August 2020. I think this was an unnecessary delay. So One Insurance should
also pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of how
his claim has been handled, the delay in completing their investigation and their failure to
keep him updated about his claim.
Mr B has been without his car for over a year. In that time, hes told us he and his wife didnt
have access to another car and they relied largely on public transport and taxis. But hes
hired a car on three occasions at a total cost of £517.17. These costs seem entirely
reasonable and should be covered by One Insurance, as Mr B wouldnt have needed to hire
a car had his claim not been declined.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Bs complaint.
One Insurance havent responded to my provisional decision.
Mr B has said that hes happy with my provisional decision, but hes concerned that One 
Insurance wont offer him a fair valuation for his car. And that theyll delay making him a 
settlement offer. So hes asked if I can set a time limit for them dealing with the valuation of 
his car. 
Hes also said that the prices for second hand cars have increased considerably since his 
car was stolen. So hes concerned that the amount he receives for his car wont cover the 
cost of a similar replacement car. And he says this situation has arisen only because of the 
delays in One Insurance considering his claim and then declining it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has said hes happy with my provisional decision, and One Call havent commented, 
I dont think theres any reason for me to review what I said.
But I do need to address the points Mr B has raised.
Given the delays Mr B experienced with One Call considering his claim, I think its 
reasonable for me to say that they should make him a settlement offer for his car, within 28 
days of being advised by our service, that Mr B has accepted my final decision.
I appreciate Mr Bs concerns that he wont be offered a fair valuation for his car. And that 
because of the well published increase in the value of second-hand cars over the last year, 
what he receives for his car wont allow him to buy a similar car. But One Call havent made 
him a settlement offer yet. So I cant consider something that hasnt happened. 
But what I can make clear is that I havent considered the valuation of Mr Bs car in this 
decision. And if hes unhappy with the amount One Call offers him and needs to complain to 
them, this would be a new complaint which our service could consider.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Bs claim against One Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to do the following:
Pay Mr Bs claim for his stolen car.
Pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a 
result of how his claim has been handled.
Pay Mr B £517.17 for the hire charges hes incurred as a result of being 
without his car.
Pay simple interest at 8% on the sum of £517.17 from the date the hire 
charges were incurred until payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman