DRN-2711603
The complaint
Mr H complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited seeks to recover the excess on his
car insurance policy, despite winning a court case brought by the third party involved in the
accident.
What happened
Mr H took out an all sections excess car insurance policy through a broker. The policy was
underwritten by Calpe.
In October 2017, Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident with a third party. Mr H didnt
claim on his insurance for the damage to his car. But the third party did make claims  for
damages for personal injury and for various costs, including car repairs and alternative car
hire.
Calpe defended the claim against Mr H. The case went to trial in August 2019. Calpe won.
In September 2019, Calpe wrote to Mr H saying it had incurred defence and investigation
costs of just over £9,000. It referred Mr H to his £3,000 policy excess. And it said this meant
hed agreed to contribute to its costs for defending the claim, up to the value of that excess.
Because Calpe had won the court case, Mr H didnt think this was fair. He thought the
excess shouldve been recovered from the third party as part of the case. But Calpe didnt
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
So Mr H brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it. He didnt
think it was reasonable of Calpe to ask Mr H to pay the excess when it couldve been
recovered during the court case. He also didnt think Calpe had done enough to minimise
Mr Hs losses and said Mr H shouldnt have to pay the excess. And he thought Calpes call
handler hadnt been understanding of Mr Hs concerns when they spoke on the phone. So
our investigator also awarded Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience this caused him.
Caple disagreed with our investigators findings. So Mr Hs complaint came to me to
decide.
In my provisional decision of 9 March 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. In doing so, I expanded on some of the reasons our investigator gave for 
upholding it and also gave my comments on some new points Calpe had raised.
Both Mr H and Calpe have responded to my provisional decision, which has now come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
On the very specific facts and circumstances of this case, I dont think Calpe has
treated Mr H fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mr Hs insurance policy. It includes the following terms and conditions
that I think are relevant:
Mr Hs excess is the amount he must pay towards any claim including costs. He is
responsible for the excess even if an incident isnt his fault. The excess applies to all
sections of his insurance.
The excess applies to damage or injury claimed by a third party. So Mr H is liable for
any claim (by him or any third party) made on his policy up to the amount of the
excess.
Expenditure by Calpe on various fees and services associated with any claim is
recorded as a claims payment and, if applicable, forms part of Mr Hs excess.
Calpe says it has dealt with Mr Hs claim in a fair and reasonable way and that, in asking him
to pay the excess now, its acted in line with his policy terms and conditions. It says this is
because:
When Mr H bought his policy he accepted its terms, which included one saying he
was financially responsible for all costs up to £3,000; and
Calpe couldnt have asked for the excess before the case went to court as nothing
was paid out at that time; and
Calpe wasnt invoiced for some of the costs it incurred until after the court case, so it
couldnt include them in Mr Hs counterclaim; and
Calpe wouldnt have been able to recover its costs due to whats called qualified one-
way costs shifting (QOCS).
Mr H said the accident wasnt his fault and, very early on, Calpes investigators assessed the
third party as being 100% at fault. Calpe chose to defend the third partys claim  as it was
allowed to under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. As is often the way, it was almost
two years before the case went to trial. And when it did, Calpe won.
In those two years, my understanding is Calpe (not Mr H) had conduct of the case  it had
effectively stepped into Mr Hs shoes to defend the third partys claims. So it knew what
costs it was incurring at different stages in the proceedings and what it thought could and
couldnt be recovered from the third party. And it also knew about the circumstances in
which (it believed) it could charge Mr H his excess.
From what Ive seen, Mr H didnt know these things (apart from the amount of the excess).
He says he thought the excess (if it was payable) wouldve been recovered from the third
party as part of the court case. I think that was a reasonable expectation for Mr H to have in
the circumstances.Instead, Mr H is being asked to pay £3,000 for an accident the court has held wasnt his
fault. And it seems he now wouldnt be able to get that money back (which as an uninsured
loss he couldve claimed from the third party if Calpe had charged it sooner) because the
court case has ended.
I think that, by seeking to recover the excess from Mr H in this way, Calpe has treated him
unfairly. The litigation was in its hands and it knew the likely process and costs involved in
going to trial (even if some costs were higher than anticipated). And  crucially  it knew that,
if necessary, it believed it could set Mr Hs excess against any outstanding costs.
As far as I can tell, Mr H didnt know Calpe would apply his excess in this way if it won the
court case. Ive seen nothing to show me Calpe advised Mr H at any stage that he could,
potentially, be liable for his full excess, even if a court found he wasnt at fault for the
accident. All Ive seen is a letter Calpe sent to Mr H within a week or so of the accident
reminding him about the excess (and this was probably long before liability had even been
looked at).
For Calpe to recover Mr Hs excess now  two years from when the accident happened,
after the conclusion of a successful court case, and without warning him during those two
years that this could happen  is neither fair nor reasonable.
I should also say that its our long-standing approach that costs incurred by insurers  such
as their own investigation fees and the like  arent costs insurers should pass on to their
customers if they cant recover them from the other parties to the dispute. I think most of the
costs Calpe is trying to recover from Mr H fall into this category. And I dont think its fair and
reasonable to pass these on to Mr H.
One final point I should mention. Calpes says it wouldnt have been able to recover its costs
due to QOCS (qualified one-way cost shifting). But it hasnt told us why it thinks QOCS
meant it couldnt do so.
I understand QOCS is a rule that applies to court proceedings in civil cases, which came into
effect in 2013. Broadly, in personal injury cases, it means even if claimants lose their
personal injury claims in court, the court cant make them pay the defendants costs. But
there are exceptions to the rule. One is where a case includes claims for personal injury and
other claims (I believe this is known as the mixed claim exception).
In a fairly recent case, the Court of Appeal looked at the interpretation of this particular
exception. It held there was no justification for allowing claims which are not damages for
personal injuryto attract automatic QOCS protection.
I think this means that, for parties defending mixed claims, QOCS is disapplied and so
defendants can claim their non-personal injury-related costs from the court (although
whether theyre awarded will be at the courts discretion).
In Mr Hs case, I dont think theres any doubt the third partys claim was mixed  it involved
a claim for damages for personal injury and also claims for loss of earnings, for damage to
the third partys car, for alternative car hire costs and for recovery and storage costs. In the
Court of Appeal case Ive just referred to, one of the judges specifically referred to road
traffic accident litigation as an example of a mixed claim, saying claims for things like the
cost of repairs and alternative vehicle hire are claims consequent on damage to property,
namely the vehicle that suffered the accident, and therefore fall within the mixed claim
exception.
The comments Ive made about my understanding of QOCS are just that  comments. Ivemade them because Calpe mentioned QOCS in response to our investigators view and,
until now, we havent acknowledged this. But I make no finding on what Calpe has said.
Thats because it hasnt explained why it thinks QOCS wouldve applied in Mr Hs case. If
Calpe has anything it would like to add, I can look at this point again before I make my final
decision on this complaint.
In conclusion, for all of the reasons Ive given, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Calpe
should cease seeking Mr Hs excess from him.
Our investigator awarded Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by
Calpes call handler. This happened when Mr H phoned up about being asked to pay the
excess. Ive listened to the call and, like our investigator, I think Calpe handled it very poorly.
The call handler was unsympathetic, impatient and frequently talked over Mr H. I think
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr H is fair and
reasonable.
But I also intend to award Mr H additional compensation. Mr H only found out Calpe wanted
to charge him his full excess  and £3,000 is quite a lot of money  after the case had ended
and when there was little he could do to recover it himself. Its clear to me  especially from
the phone call Ive just referred to  that Mr H was confused and upset about this. I can
understand why, Calpe having won his court case, Mr H would feel that way. So in these
circumstances, I intend to award Mr H an additional £300 in compensation for the distress
and inconvenience I think Calpe caused him in asking him to pay the excess in the way it
did.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H said at around the time of the accident his 
partner had passed away, which made things worse for him and affected his mental health. 
He doesnt think Calpe was very understanding of this and has shown no compassion when 
chasing him for funds.
When I wrote my provisional decision, I was very aware that, at the time of the accident Mr H 
was on his way to the hospital to see his partner, who sadly passed away a few days later. 
The accident, the claim and the court case that followed will bring back unhappy memories 
for Mr H. Im sorry I didnt say something about this sooner. I hope this final decision will give 
Mr H some closure, at least on this particular aspect of what must have been  and may well 
still be  a very painful time in his life.
In its response to my provisional decision, Calpe says if it had reminded Mr H of the policy 
excess before and during the trial, it wouldnt have affected its approach to the case or the
outcome in any way. It says everything would have happened exactly as it did, Mr H would 
just have been aware earlier the excess may be payable at the end.
I think this misses the point that, in acting as it did, Calpe denied Mr H the opportunity to use 
the separate legal expenses cover he had to recover the excess (or otherwise take action to 
recover the uninsured losses on his own account). 
Calpe also says its investigation costs arent relevant here, because even if it waived these, 
the legal fees incurred would exceed Mr Hs excess. It says if it hadnt incurred these fees, it 
wouldve had to settle the third party claim (and recover the excess). And it says if it were 
removed from the equation entirely, Mr H wouldve had to settle the claim or incur legal costs 
himself defending the third party claim. It says with or without the insurance, these costs 
wouldve been incurred and Mr H wouldve been responsible. 
But its our approach that legal fees and investigation costs are risks Calpe took on when it 
accepted Mr Hs policy. I dont think its fair and reasonable to pass these on to Mr H. And, of course, if Mr H had conducted his own defence, he could at least have tried to recover his 
excess  whereas now hes missed the opportunity to explore this.
Calpe has also given me some further information on its understanding of QOCS and how it 
might have applied in this case. It says in some instances a defendant's costs will be 
assessed at trial, giving a quantified sum for potential enforcement. It says where a trial 
doesnt take place or the judge at trial doesnt deal with costs, an order will be required for 
detailed assessment. And it says proceeding along the detailed assessment route is 
expensive and can be protracted. It concludes by saying each case has be considered on 
the basics of economics, the potential to disapply QOCS protection a claimant may have, 
and furthermore the ability of the claimant to discharge the defendant's costs.
I understand that costs or uninsured losses, such as an excess, wouldnt necessarily be 
dealt with at the liability hearing and that, if a separate order was needed, this might be 
costly. But in this complaint I dont know whether or not the judge wouldve made a costs 
order  because it wasnt something Calpe asked for. 
Ive considered all of Calpes comments. But they dont change my conclusions on this 
complaint. For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (and those 
reasons also now form part of this final decision), Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct Calpe to put things right for Mr H as I set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to: 
Cease pursuing Mr H for his policy excess of £3,000 in relation to the claim and, if it 
hasn't done so already, it must update all databases (internal or external) to mark this 
as a non-fault claim.
Pay Mr H £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him. 
Calpe can deduct the £200 compensation previously awarded by our investigator if 
this has been paid.
Calpe should pay this sum within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr H has accepted this 
final decision. If it doesnt, Calpe should pay interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on this sum from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If Calpe Insurance Company Limited pays interest and considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman