DRN-3158365
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market was irresponsible in its 
lending to him. 
What happened
Quid Market provided Mr B with five loans between April 2016 and October 2019.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 28/04/2016 28/10/2016 6 £400.00
2 04/01/2018 12/06/2018 5 £200.00
3 12/06/2018 11/12/2018 6 £400.00
4 11/12/2018 14/05/2019 5 £800.00
5 09/10/2019 18/02/2021 5 £1,000.00
Mr B says that loans werent affordable and had proper checks been carried out Quid Market 
would have seen he had other debts at the time. He raised a complaint after he was 
provided with the first loan which wasnt upheld. He says he was then provided with further 
loans. He raised further complaints but only loan 5 was investigated. 
Quid Market issued a final response letter in September 2017 in response to Mr Bs 
complaint regarding loan 1. It didnt uphold his complaint. In March 2019, Quid Market 
responded to Mr Bs complaint about three subsequent loans saying that his complaint about 
irresponsible lending had been previously raised and investigated in 2017 and that Mr B then 
decided to take out further loans. Mr B raised a further complaint and Quid Market issued a 
final response letter in March 2021, having investigated loan 5. It said the checks carried out 
before loan 5 was provided were proportionate and there was no reason to not provide the 
loan. As a gesture of goodwill it offered to remove loan 5 from Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B didnt accept Quid Markets offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator explained that as Quid Market had issued a final response letter regarding 
loan 1 and the complaint wasnt then referred to this service within the required timeframe, 
loan 1 wouldnt be considered further. He did consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint in 
regard to loans 2 to 5.
Our adjudicator noted the break in lending between loans 1 and 2 and said he didnt think he 
had enough to say that loan 2 shouldnt have been provided. But he didnt think Quid Market 
should have provided Mr B with loans 3 to 5.
Quid Market didnt respond to our adjudicators view by the deadline and so this complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The jurisdiction issues for this complaint have been previously addressed and so this 
decision is in regard to loans 2 to 5.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was affordable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr B was provided with loan 2, more than a year after the first loan had been repaid. 
Therefore, I agree that this loan starts a new lending chain. The loan was for £200 repayable 
over five monthly instalments of £69. Before the loan was provided, Quid Market gathered 
information from Mr B about his employment, income and expenditure and carried out a 
credit search. I think these checks were proportionate and while I note there was some 
adverse information on Mr Bs credit search results I do not find this was enough at this 
stage to say the loan shouldnt have been provided. As the information gathered suggested 
the loan was affordable I do not find I can say Quid Market was wrong to provide Mr B with 
loan 2.
Mr B repaid loan 2 and took out another loan for twice the amount on the same day. While 
Mr Bs income and expenses information suggested the loan repayments would be 
affordable, the information received from the credit search should have raised concerns. The 
credit results showed that Mr B had several short term loans outstanding at the time, three of 
which were recorded as being in arrears. I think this should have raised concerns that Mr B 
was struggling to manage his money and that providing this and subsequent loans wasnt 
sustainably affordable.
There was a gap of just under five months in the lending between loan 4 being repaid and 
loan 5 being provided. However, I dont think this was long enough for Quid Market to 
reasonably conclude that Mr Bs finances had moved on from whatever situation had 
required his previous loans. Loan 5 was for a higher amount than the previous loans which 
further suggests Mr Bs financial situation hadnt improved.Overall, I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 5.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B after loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 5, Stagemount Limited trading as Quid 
Market should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans 3 to 5 along with interest of 
8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in regard to loans 3 to 
5. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid 
Market must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman