DRN-3313406
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given unsuitable advice by M&S Financial Solutions to switch 
his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest his funds through an investment 
manager firm (IM).
M&S Financial Solutions was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd at the time of
the advice, so Pi are responsible for M&Ss actions and this complaint. Ill refer to Pi
throughout this decision for ease of reading.
What happened
In May 2017, Pi recommended Mr C to switch his existing SIPP, which was invested in cash 
and worth around £32,000, into another SIPP and invest through Mayfair Capital (Mayfair). 
Mr C followed the recommendation and opened the SIPP and a trading account with 
Mayfair. Mayfair took Mr C on as a client and offered him an advisory service.
In 2019, Mr C raised a complaint against Mayfair. He didnt think his funds had been 
invested in line with his cautious attitude to risk and he had lost out financially as a result. He 
also was unhappy he was being constantly asked to make decisions how to invest when he 
didnt really have the necessary knowledge to make those decisions.
Mayfair rejected his complaint and so Mr C referred it to this Service. Mayfair had pointed 
out in their response that Mr C had received financial advice from Pi, so our investigator 
initially asked for Pis business file. When the evidence showed they had provided a 
recommendation to use Mayfair, he informed Mr C that it might be appropriate to complain to 
Pi as well to investigate the advice given to him and whether it was suitable. This was in line 
with DISP 3.5.2 G. It would then allow the investigator to consider the involvement of both 
parties. Mr C agreed and complained to Pi about their advice and recommendation to use 
Mayfair. 
Pi rejected the complaint. They said Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed as adventurous 
and he was seeking high returns. He was prepared to take high risk in order to achieve his 
desired growth. Pi said there was a direct contractual relationship between Mayfair and Mr C 
and it was Mayfair who was responsible for ensuring his portfolio was and remained suitable. 
Pi felt the complaint should solely be directed at Mayfair.
Our investigator upheld the complaint against Pi. He didnt think Mr C was an adventurous 
investor or had the capacity for loss to take such risks with his pension. He also didnt think 
recommending him to use Mayfairs services was suitable in Mr Cs circumstances and so 
without Pis advice he likely wouldnt have ended up with Mayfair and suffered the losses he 
did. He asked them to put Mr C back in the position he likely would have been in if had been 
given suitable advice. 
Pi disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Pi gave Mr C advice on his pension so they had to take reasonable steps to ensure their 
recommendation was suitable for Mr C (COBS 9.2.1R).
Was Pis advice suitable?
Mr C was invested in a SIPP which was invested in cash, so I think it was reasonable to 
review this pension. Pi completed a fact find with Mr C as well as an attitude to risk 
assessment.
At the time of the advice Mr C was 41, married and earning £45,000 per year. His home had 
a value of £235,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £180,000. He had other liabilities of 
£20,000. He had two pensions totalling £65,000 in value and no other savings or 
investments.
Pi issued a suitability report which set out a variety of reasons why Mr C should change to a 
different SIPP including the option to take his pension flexibly, have access to a wider range 
of investments and the possibility to leave his wife with a lump sum payment. However, 
given that Mr C was already in a SIPP, I think he would have had all these benefits in his 
existing plan. So these werent in my view reasons to move his pension to another SIPP.
I then considered Pis advice on how Mr C should invest once transferred. In their financial 
planning report on 4 May 2017 Pi recommended Mr C to invest through Mayfair with a risk 
rating of an adventurous investor.   
Ive considered the attitude to risk assessment Pi completed as well as their questionnaire 
on Mr Cs investment knowledge and experience. I think its clear that Mr C had very limited 
knowledge and experience when it came to investments. The questionnaire confirmed he 
only ever had savings accounts and his two pensions. One of which was invested in cash 
and had been taken out after receiving financial advice and one was an occupational 
pension. I cant see that he had any direct investment experience at all. The financial 
planning report did state Mr C confirmed he had very little knowledge and experience of 
financial products and investments. 
Mr Cs attitude to risk assessment was a fairly basic, generic questionnaire with multiple 
choice answers. In response to the question which statement best described his investment 
objective, Mr C chose: 
I want to achieve higher long-term returns than cash. I could cope with infrequent periods 
where my investments might fall in value.
Out of five options this was the second most cautious answer. 
Somewhat contrary to this when given a choice of sample portfolios with possible gains and 
losses, he chose a portfolio which could fall by 23%. He also said that he would be 
concerned if his pension fell by more than 20% in a one year period which again would be 
slightly contradictory to the portfolio he chose in the previous question.
I havent seen any evidence how this assessment was discussed with Mr C and that 
contradictions were clarified. Attitude to risk questionnaires are unfamiliar to inexperienced investors and an outcome from a questionnaire should be discussed and tested. A 
questionnaire should not be viewed in isolation. Mr C gave conflicting answers and his 
experience and existing assets did not support an adventurous attitude to risk. I cant see 
that Pi properly assessed his attitude to risk and took his circumstances into account. Mr C 
was categorised as an Adventurous Investor which was defined as follows:
Adventurous investors typically have high levels of investment knowledge and keep up to 
date on investment issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who have used a 
range on investment products in the past, and who may take an active approach to 
managing their investments. In general, Adventurous investors are happy to take investment 
risk and understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are 
willing to take risk with most of their available assets. Adventurous investors will usually be 
able to make up their minds on investment matters quickly. While they can suffer from regret 
when their investment decisions turn out badly, they are able to accept that occasional poor 
outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment.
Given Mr Cs very limited investment experience this classification doesnt seem to fit in my 
view. I dont doubt that Mr C wanted to improve on cash returns. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded he had an adventurous attitude to risk. 
Even if Im wrong about this, I dont think he had the necessary capacity for loss to take such 
risk with his pension. Pi said in their report Mr C had a high capacity for loss, however I 
disagree. This pension made up half of his overall pension provisions and other than his 
home on which he was planning to pay off the mortgage by the age of 60 and a small 
emergency fund, he had no other assets. Given that he was still many years from retirement 
I think he could reasonably take some risk with his pension. However, I dont think he could 
reasonably afford any significant losses.
Im also not persuaded using an investment manager who actively involved him in making 
investment decisions was a suitable proposition for Mr C.
Mr Cs pension funds were modest (just over £30,000) and he was an inexperienced 
investor. Mayfair charged 1.5% dealing commission as well as additional charges which 
depended on how Mr Cs funds would be invested. Pi was also providing an ongoing advice 
service for Mr C which according to their client agreement included the review of investment 
performance and holdings as well as the reassessment of risk profile and asset allocation. 
He paid another 1% per year for this service which essentially was duplicating some of the 
services Mayfair was meant to provide.
I cant see that the impact of these charges was properly explained to Mr C. The 
arrangement with Mayfair added a layer of complexity and cost that Mr C, in my view, didnt 
need. I dont think he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
bespoke investment propositions Mayfair would give to him and he was paying a premium 
charge for this. 
I cant see that a wider range of funds or a bespoke investment portfolio was necessary to
meet Mr Cs objective of receiving higher returns than cash. There was no reason why he 
couldnt have invested in a more standard portfolio which could have been reviewed by Pi 
regularly during their ongoing service to make sure it was in line with his attitude to risk and 
meet his requirements.
I havent seen evidence that simpler and cheaper investment options without an IM, such as 
managed funds, were explored. So I dont think it was made clear that he was paying a 
premium for a service that wasnt a necessity. Overall, I dont think such an arrangement was in Mr Cs best interest and the additional
costs werent justified in his circumstances.
Pi also had a duty to ensure the recommended DFM was appropriate and do their due
diligence on the firm they were recommending.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued guidance in July 2012 about the
recommendation of DFMs (Assessing suitability: Replacement business and centralised
investment propositions). And the Personal Finance Society build on this in February 2015
with a good practice guide for advisers to help them develop their approach on due diligence
into investment firms.
Both regulatory and industry guidance made it clear that advisers needed to do some due
diligence before recommending IM services which included for example
research into a firms reputation and financial standing as well as the types of underlying 
assets the IM would invest in and their approach to investing. The good practice guide said
advisers needed to get under the bonnet of an IMs marketing blurb and were required to
question and challenge information that was provided to them. Given that Mayfair had only 
recently been established in 2016 and authorised only around a month before Pi 
recommended their services to Mr C, particular care should have been taken. 
Pi provided evidence to show they considered Mayfairs accounts, checked that they had 
insurance and looked into the people involved at the firm. I can also see that they asked 
Mayfair to confirm they werent investing in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS) or non-mainstream pooled investment vehicles (NMPI). So Im satisfied they did 
some due diligence. However, I havent seen persuasive evidence that Pi really understood 
how Mayfair would invest and what kind of investments they would consider before they 
recommended Mr C to invest through them.
Based on valuations Ive seen it looks like Mr C ended up in investments which were higher
risk than was suitable for him. And I think the risk of him ending up in this situation could 
have been reasonably foreseen and avoided by Pi. I dont consider recommending Mayfair 
and then relying on them providing suitable advice without doing any proper due diligence 
into the a newly authorised firm and their investment strategy beforehand was sufficient. 
Ive seen the application to open a trading account for Mayfair and their terms of business.
They refer to investments in AIM and penny shares and companies trading on the NEX
Exchange. And in their financial planning report Pi advertised one of the benefits to be that 
Mr C would be able to receive free advice and have one account for shares, bonds and 
CFDs (the latter being high risk and complex investments which Mr C clearly didnt have the 
necessary knowledge or experience to understand).
Mr C completed an updated application form a few months later. It asked clients to complete 
their preferred product classes and how much they would like to invest into different assets. 
Following the form in line with a balanced portfolio 15% would be invested into high risk and 
speculative investments. In an adventurous portfolio this would be 20%. These were 
described as Global Small Equities (e.g. AIM) & Non-Investment Grade Corporate bonds 
(High Yield Bonds). I think Pi should have found out and queried such an asset strategy 
further, asked for more information about what sorts of bonds Mayfair would usually consider 
in here and what due diligence they would do on the investments.
Overall, I dont think Pi gave Mr C suitable advice.
Responsibility for investment lossesPi says Mayfair was responsible for the suitability of the investments and so they are the
ones who should be held to account here.
I appreciate that Mr C became a direct client of Mayfair and that Mayfair are regulated and 
had their own responsibilities towards Mr C. Mayfair had confirmed to Pi in January 2017 
that they would be responsible for the suitability of the investments. And I acknowledge that 
their actions might have also caused Mr Cs losses by recommending investments to him 
that were too high risk. So I understand that Pi thinks its unfair that they are the only ones 
held to account.
However, Im deciding the complaint against Pi and Im satisfied that without their unsuitable 
advice Mr Cs losses could have been avoided.
As I explained above, I dont think Pi assessed Mr Cs attitude to risk and capacity for loss 
appropriately and gave unsuitable advice when recommending Mr C to invest through 
Mayfair. It was too complex requiring Mr C to take investment decisions he didnt understand 
and the arrangement was expensive given he didnt really require this service and which 
would affect returns particularly on such a small portfolio.  So with suitable advice Mr C 
wouldnt have ended up with them and in the position he is in now. 
In addition, from what Ive seen Pi failed to do proper due diligence on Mayfair
to ensure they fully understood their investment strategy and whether it was
appropriate for Mr Cs circumstances. If they had done so, I think they ought to have
realised that Mayfairs investment strategy included speculative investments which likely
werent suitable for Mr C. 
So in the circumstances of this case I consider it fair and reasonable that Pi compensates Mr
C for all his losses. If Pi feels Mayfair is also at fault here, they are free to pursue them
directly after they have compensated Mr C in full.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
Pi should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Generally, 25% of the funds would 
be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP Still exists FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market). This might be 
the case here. Pi should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Pi may require that Mr C provides an undertaking 
to pay Pi any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. I think 
a reasonable assumption is that he was a balanced investor.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr C compensation as calculated 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman