DRN-3644731
The complaint
Miss A complains that a car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss A acquired a used car via a five-year conditional sale agreement. The 
car was around six years old and had a mileage of about 74,500. She says that shortly after 
taking possession of the car she noticed that a back wheel was crabbing and so she 
contacted the supplying dealer. Miss A says that the dealer was unwilling to assist.
Miss A says that she took the car to another garage where issues with a wishbone were 
identified. Miss A says she paid £185 for the repairs and also replaced two of the tyres. 
Unfortunately, a short time later Miss A was involved in a road traffic accident. Miss A says 
that the accident was due to the car not braking properly and she had collided with another 
car.
The car required over £4,000 worth of repairs which were covered by Miss As insurance 
though she had to pay the £650 excess. The car was returned to her in April 2020. However 
only a short afterwards, Miss A says she experienced further problems with the cars braking 
system. This led to Miss A taking the car to another garage for investigation.
This second garage reported a number of faults with the cars braking system and Miss A 
paid a total of £666.20 to have the following items repaired; renewal of the rear left brake 
calliper as it was seized, a brake fluid change, renewal of all the brake pads and renewal of 
all the brake discs as they were worn below the manufacturer minimum spec.
Miss A says she contacted the dealer only to find them again unwilling to assist. So, in May 
2020 she contacted Moneybarn and complained about the state of the car and also raised a 
concern that the mileage of the vehicle wasnt as had been originally advertised.
At the start of June 2020, Miss A told Moneybarn that the car had required further repairs to 
the drive shaft and the coil pack which had cost her £450.
Moneybarn made enquiries with an independent engineer about whether the faults with the 
braking system could have been the cause of the accident. The independent engineer said 
that the defect with the rear calliper and brake pads should have been picked up by the 
supplying dealer prior to the car being supplied to Miss A and that the callipers seizure could 
have contributed to the accident. But they also said there would be a number of other 
variables that would need to be taken into account such as the weather and driving style 
when looking at the cause of the collision. The independent engineer said a brake efficiency 
defect should be generally evident prior to the point of failure due to noise and an impact on 
the handbrakes efficiency.  The engineer concluded the callipers seizure wouldnt have 
been the sole cause of the collision.
Moneybarn sent Miss As its final response letter to her complaint and partially upheld her 
complaint. It said that it wasnt able to investigate her concern about the mileage since this 
hadnt been included in the advert for the car. Moneybarn said the mileage was shown on 
the conditional sale agreement and the sales invoice so if there had been an issue for Miss 
A, it would have expected her to raise that either at the time she had collected the car or 
shortly afterwards.
Moneybarn said that Miss A, having authorised repairs on the car by other garages, meant 
that it couldnt now be established if there was any liability for any of the faults with the car 
as it couldnt be inspected as to when these faults had arisen or what had caused them.
However, in light of the independent engineers opinion that the brake calliper would have 
been compromised at the point of supply, Moneybarn said it would reimburse Miss A the 
cost of the replacement brake calliper and sundries. It reimbursed her the £666.20 shed 
spent on repairs in April 2020.
Moneybarn sent Miss A another letter at the end of June 2020 setting out that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 the car must be of satisfactory condition at the point of supply. It 
explained that if there were issues with the car then the supplying dealer would have the 
right to attempt repairs, but by having the car repaired elsewhere then this opportunity had 
been removed and it wouldnt be possible to now establish if it had any liability.
In July 2020 Miss A spoke with Moneybarn. At that time Miss A said the car had now been 
repaired but she did raise either rejecting it or possibly exchanging it. Moneybarn sent a 
further final response letter to Miss A again setting out that due to the repairs that had been 
carried out, it couldnt establish what the causes of any faults had been.
In August 2020 Miss A says the car started to misfire, making a banging noise and smoking. 
Miss A says she contacted Moneybarn about this and was told she could now reject the car. 
However, Moneybarn says that when Miss A called it was to explain there had been a 
change to her financial circumstances and the agreement exit options were discussed. 
Moneybarn says Miss A told it that she couldnt afford the exit options.
The following day Miss A returned the car to the supplying dealer. She says the supplying 
dealer agreed she could reject the car, though they wanted to check if a price for it could be 
agreed. Miss A provided the supplying dealer with a letter setting out that she wanted to 
reject the car.
Miss A told Moneybarn she had left the car at the supplying dealership and this was 
confirmed by the dealership who said she had left it as she said it wasnt fit for purpose and 
she was rejecting the vehicle in line with the Consumer Credit Act 2015.
A few days later a vehicle condition report was undertaken for the car which recorded that it 
was in an acceptable condition.
As Miss As account had fallen into arrears Moneybarn served a default notice on her in 
September 2020. Miss A didnt clear the arrears and so didnt remedy the breach of contract 
leading Moneybarn to terminate the agreement and repossess the car. The car was 
subsequently sold at auction. Moneybarn then applied for a County Court Judgement for the 
outstanding balance of the agreement and the costs of the court action. This amounted to 
£15,482 plus interest. 
Miss A complained to this service as she didnt agree with the actions taken by Moneybarn. 
She said the car had been supplied to her with serious faults and that it had been agreed 
she could reject it.Our investigator recommended that Miss As complaint should be partially upheld. She said 
that although Miss A had experienced faults with the car, by having them repaired by a third 
party then it wasnt possible to say whether the issues had been due to an inherent fault or 
wear and tear. As the car was over seven years and had a mileage of 74,500, then wear and 
tear of the cars components would be reasonably expected.
Our investigator said Miss A hadnt provided any job sheets for the work she said had been 
undertaken on the car save for one receipt in respect of the cars brakes. And looking at the 
braking system, our investigator said Moneybarn had agreed to cover the costs of these 
repairs in light of the conclusion reached by the independent engineer. She said she thought 
this was fair and she wouldnt ask it to do more than this reimbursement.
While Moneybarn agreed with our investigators view, Miss A disagreed. She said that 
Moneybarn had agreed she could reject the car and return it to the dealership. Miss A also 
said she disagreed with the amount that Moneybarn said was owing under the agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A says that both the dealership and Moneybarn told her she could reject the car and 
return it due to the faults she had experienced. Moneybarn disagrees with this. 
Unfortunately, the dealership is now closed, so Im not able to confirm their position though 
from the earlier correspondence with Moneybarn it would appear that they wouldnt agree 
with Miss A.
When looking at this complaint, I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I have to decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Miss A is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was over seven years old and had a mileage of about 74,500. So, some 
issues of maintenance and repair would be expected over a reasonable period of time. 
Miss A says that it was only a short time after she had acquired the car that she needed 
to raise concerns about the back wheel. She says the dealership wouldnt assist her and 
so she had to take it to another garage where an issue with the wishbone was found and 
repairs including the replacement of two tyres were carried out. Unfortunately, Miss A hasnt provided any evidence about this repair, so I cant 
reasonably say that the issue arose because of a fault with the car. Problems with a cars 
wishbone can arise through wear and tear but also accidental damage. Without evidence 
from the garage that repaired the car I cant fairly say that this was a fault that was either 
developing or present at the point of supply. I also cant reasonably say that the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable. 
 
Miss A was then involved in a traffic accident and the car sustained damage. Repairs 
were covered by Miss As insurance although she had to pay for the excess. I havent 
seen any evidence as to what those repairs entailed though Miss A says the accident was 
due to the braking system not acting correctly. However, it doesnt appear that when the 
repair work was undertaken issues with braking system were raised with Miss A.  
Miss A says that she was then involved in a second incident when driving the car 
because the brakes didnt operate correctly. This led her to take the car to another garage 
for investigation. Following that inspection Miss A paid £666.20 to have repairs 
undertaken to the braking system. She has provided the invoice for that work.
Following these repairs, and because Miss A says she had a lack of assistance from the 
supplying dealer, she made her complaint to Moneybarn about the condition of the car. 
She also says that shortly after this a further £450 worth of repairs were needed for the 
cars drive shaft and coil pack. Unfortunately, again, Miss A hasnt supplied a job sheet or 
invoice for this work so I cant be clear what work or why it was carried out on the car.
I think Moneybarn acted fairly in making enquires with an independent engineer about the 
brake system repairs that had been undertaken. I also note that the engineer concluded 
that they didnt think this would have been the sole case of the accident as there would 
have been other factors in play and the faults with the braking system would have been 
noticeable. In light of the conclusion of the independent engineer, I think it was 
reasonable for Moneybarn not to have offered to reimburse Miss A for any of the excess 
she had to pay under the insurance policy. 
However, Ive seen that Moneybarn accepted that the calliper would have been 
compromised at the point of the cars supply to Miss A. And although this would mean the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was provided to Miss A this doesnt mean she 
was entitled to reject it. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there would have been a 
right to repair. As Miss A had already arranged this, then it was fair that Moneybarn 
offered to reimburse these repairs to her. Ive seen this reimbursement was made to Miss 
A in June 2020.
I also think that Moneybarns response in respect of the other earlier repairs was fair. The 
car having been repaired, couldnt now be inspected to ascertain the cause of those 
previous matters and so it wasnt possible to decide if Moneybarn had any liability for 
those issues or not. As set out above, due to the age and mileage of the car, it would be 
reasonable to expect repair and maintenance issues to arise. Just because a fault 
developed with the car wouldnt necessarily mean that Moneybarn would be liable for 
those repairs  
Due to the lack of evidence as to what the repairs were or why they were carried out 
together with the inability to now investigate the faults, I think Moneybarn acted fairly in 
saying it couldnt assist with those matters. I have seen enough evidence to say that other 
than braking system there were faults with the car which would make it of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Looking at the notes made by Moneybarn in respect of her account Ive seen she contacted it in July 2020. She raised the possibility of rejecting the car, but I havent seen 
any evidence that Moneybarn agreed to this. It sent her a further letter setting out again 
that it wasnt able to establish liability for any faults due to the repairs that had already 
been conducted.
The notes also set out that Miss A contacted Moneybarn the following month, this was to 
report a change in her financial circumstances and that wished to discuss her exit options. 
Again, there is no evidence Moneybarn agreed that Miss A could reject the car.
Miss A says she returned the car to the dealership because it developed further faults. 
She provided a letter stating she was rejecting the vehicle because it wasnt fit for 
purpose. The dealership informed Moneybarn of this but they didnt say they had agreed 
she could take this action. While at the dealership the car was inspected and no faults 
with it were found.
I appreciate Miss A feels very strongly that it was agreed she could reject the car but Im 
afraid this isnt supported by the evidence Ive seen. Moneybarn had been clear it would 
reimburse for the braking system repairs but not any of the other repairs. It has not 
accepted that when the car was handed back to the dealer that it was faulty. Similarly, I 
havent seen any evidence that would indicate the dealership had agreed to take the car 
back. I therefore think its more likely than not that Miss A wasnt told she could reject the 
car and return it. 
Looking at the evidence, I think Moneybarns offer to reimburse Miss A for the cost of the 
repairs to the cars braking system was fair and Im not asking it to reimburse any of the 
other repairs that were undertaken.
As Miss A had left the car at the dealership and stopped paying under the agreement, I 
think Moneybarn acted reasonably in terminating the agreement after the expiry of the 
default notice. Ive seen Miss A disputes the amount Moneybarn says is outstanding, but 
this is now the subject of County Court proceedings. And in light of that it will be a matter 
for the court to decide what is due under this account.
Although our investigator had partially upheld Miss As complaint this was only on the 
basis that Moneybarn hadnt reimbursed her for the repairs on the braking system. As Ive 
seen that Moneybarn had in fact paid Miss A this amount prior to her making the 
complaint to this service then, having reached the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Miss A, Im not upholding her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman