DRN-2861042
The complaint Mrs S is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined her claim for 
malicious damage to the property she was buying.
What happened
Mrs S was at the stage between exchange of contracts and completion when she found that 
the property she was buying had suffered extensive malicious damage. She didnt have 
buildings cover, but she claimed under the sellers Commercial Property Owners Policy:
Transfer of Interest
We will provide cover to the purchaser, if at the time of Damage to a Building insured under 
this Section You have entered into a contract to sell Your interest in it but
(1) the contract has not yet been completed, and
(2) the Building has not yet been insured by or on behalf of the purchaser.
Cover granted by this Clause shall only operate where the purchase is subsequently 
completed.
Aviva declined her claim because it believed Mrs S planned to redevelop the property, and it 
was long-term unoccupied when the damage happened. The policy excluded cover for both 
scenarios.
Mrs S complained to Aviva. She said the redevelopment was a longer term plan and she 
didnt think it could fairly decline her claim for that reason. She also said that she visited the 
property regularly. Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While he didnt think it was fair to decline the 
claim under the redevelopment exclusion, he thought Aviva had fairly declined the claim 
under the exclusion for unoccupied buildings. Our investigator explained that the property 
was unoccupied for more than 45 days and, therefore, excluded from cover under the policy.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said there hadnt been any mention of the unoccupied definition to 
which our investigator referred, and the long term unoccupied definition related only to 
buildings awaiting redevelopment.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Aviva relied on two policy exclusions to decline Mrs Ss claim:
Buildings awaiting Refurbishment Redevelopment or Renovation
If at the time of Damage a Building insured under this Section is awaiting refurbishment 
redevelopment or renovation We will not indemnify You for costs that You would have 
incurred in the absence of any Damage.
Because Mrs S had submitted a planning application for extensive renovation just 23 days 
after sale completion, Aviva said that cover was excluded because she wouldve incurred 
costs regardless of whether there was any damage. 
Further, it said that the policy defined Long Term Unoccupied as:
"Any Unoccupied Building, Portion of a Building or a Residential Unit in a building that...
(2) is either empty, void, vacant or disused and is awaiting
(a) redevelopment"
And,
"Long Term Unoccupied
If at the time of Damage the buildings are Long Term Unoccupied (1) We will not indemnify 
You in respect of Damage caused by or resulting from
(a) malicious persons
(b) escape of water from any tank apparatus or pipe or escape of fuel from any fixed oil 
heating installation"
As Aviva was aware that Mrs S planned to redevelop the property, it said the property fell 
under the definition of Long Term Unoccupied and, therefore, cover for the malicious 
damage was excluded.
While I understand why Aviva viewed the planning application as evidence that the property 
was awaiting redevelopment, I dont agree with its application here. Ive looked through the 
policy and schedule, but I cant see anything which says awaiting redevelopment includes 
speculative planning applications. Indeed, in this case, the planning application was refused 
so, there wasnt going to be any redevelopment soon. This reinforces the view that a 
planning application cant be considered awaiting redevelopment.
To summarise this point, I dont think it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim based on the 
Redevelopment clause and the linked Long Term Unoccupied clause because, simply, the 
property wasnt awaiting redevelopment.
In her response to our view, Mrs S said Aviva didnt mention the unoccupied clause in the 
policy upon which we based our decision not to uphold her complaint. Ive looked at Avivas 
response to Mrs Ss claim and it declined for the reasons Ive already set out, above. 
However, for clarity, the policy states:
Property Damage
Clauses
These clauses apply and are stated in The Schedule
In respect of any Unoccupied premises insured under the provisions of this Clause, We will 
only cover You in respect of Defined Contingencies (1) to (6) and (10).
Defined Contingencies
(1) fire
(2) lightning
(3) explosion
(4) aircraft and other aerial and/or spatial devices or articles dropped from them
(5) earthquake
(6) riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or persons taking part in labour 
disturbances
(10) impact by any vehicle or animal or by goods falling from either
And the policy goes on to define Unoccupied, restating it in the schedule endorsements, as:
Any Building or Portion of a Building or a Residential Unit in a building that is
(1) untenanted or void and/or(2) empty, vacant or disused for a period in excess of 45 consecutive days.
The property Mrs S bought was empty for around three months before the damage was 
identified, which was only a couple of days before the sale completed. I think it falls under 
the definition of unoccupied but, that said, Aviva didnt decline the claim for this reason or 
even mention it in its final response to Mrs S. My role is to look at whether Aviva declined the 
claim fairly for the reasons it gave and in line with the policy terms. I agree with Mrs S that 
Aviva didnt decline her claim under the unoccupied term, so I cant consider that policy term 
in this decision.
In summary, Aviva declined Mrs Ss claim under the policy for two reasons, both of which 
related to the property awaiting redevelopment. As Ive decided that its unfair to deem a 
(subsequently refused) planning application as awaiting redevelopment, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. To put things right, Aviva should reconsider Mrs Ss claim under the remaining 
terms of the policy.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to:
reconsider Mrs Ss complaint for malicious damage under the remaining terms of the 
sellers Commercial Property Owners Policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs S said she accepted my provisional decision that Aviva declined her claim on grounds 
which werent valid. In view of the delays and inconvenience caused, she asked that Aviva 
accept liability for the claim to proceed.
Aviva said it would instruct its claims team to re-open the claim and appoint a loss adjuster. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs S and Aviva accepted my findings, so my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary, Aviva declined Mrs Ss claim for two reasons under the policy, both of which 
excluded cover for properties awaiting redevelopment. The evidence indicated that the 
property wasnt awaiting redevelopment, so Ive decided it was unfair for Aviva to decline the 
claim under that exclusion.
To be clear, Im not instructing Aviva to accept the claim  Im asking Aviva to reconsider the 
claim under the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mrs Ss complaint for malicious damage under the remaining terms of the 
sellers Commercial Property Owners Policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman