DRN-3781456
The complaint
Mr B complains about the charges Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) applies 
to his pension.
What happened
Mr B held a Self-Invested Personal Pension with Aegon. This was transferred to Aegons 
Retiready pension platform in 2016. 
In 2021, Mr B queried the amount he was being charged. He believed the total charges 
should be capped at 1%. Aegon sent Mr B an explanation and provided him with annual 
statements from 2016 to date. Mr B didnt agree with the charges as they were more than 
1%, so he complained.
Aegon maintained that the charges applied to Mr Bs pension were correct. But it paid him 
£200 compensation for the delay in responding to his complaint. Mr B didnt accept this and 
referred the complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. They were satisfied that Aegon had 
applied the charges correctly to Mr Bs pension. Mr B didnt accept this and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two separate charges applied to Mr Bs Retiready pension. The platform fee and 
the investment charge. The platform charge is 0.78%. Aegon has confirmed this, and it 
appears that this is what Aegon have been applying to Mr Bs pension. Mr B isnt disputing 
this fee. Its the investment charge, that brings the total charge to over 1% which Mr B thinks 
is wrong. So thats what Ive gone on to consider within my decision. 
Firstly, Mr B has said he believed the overall charges for the Retiready platform were capped 
at 1%. Ive reviewed all the documents hes sent us, as well as what Aegon has sent. But 
Ive seen nothing that suggests this is the case. In fact, Ive seen an email from Aegon to 
Mr B, from when his pension was first transferred to the Retiready platform, which says that 
it couldnt guarantee that the charges would never increase. So, Im satisfied there was not a 
guarantee that total charges wouldnt rise above 1%.
Turning now to the investment charge Mr B believes Aegon is applying incorrectly; Mr B 
says the investment charge showing on the fund factsheet is 0.23% and this is what he 
should be charged. However, his annual statements for the past few years show a higher 
amount than this. 
I understand why this is confusing for Mr B. When charges are applied for fund 
management, its not quite as simple as taking a particular percentage and deducting that 
form the fund amount. The fund fact sheet shows what the charge is broadly expected to be, 
but the fund sheet does also say, in relation to the investment charge:
This is on top of any product or adviser charge you pay and includes a fixed management 
fee plus expenses that vary with the day to day costs of running the fund. The fund charges 
may differ for Retiready or Aegon One Retirement ()
Calculating charges in relation to a managed investment funds is complicated. Its not 
something that you can easily work out yourself or know the exact amount in advance. 
Weve asked Aegon for a further explanation which it has provided and Ive summarised 
below:
The amount of the charge on Mr Bs statements will usually be different to the 
expected charges shown on the fund fact sheet because these charges are 
calculated against the average daily value over the reporting period, and not the 
actual value of the plan at the point it was taken. Because of this Mr B is unable to 
directly compare the expected charges, with what's showing on his statements, as 
they are calculated in a different way.
Expenses are automatically deducted from the funds daily and the daily unit price 
reflects this along with any gains or losses made. This is what determines the value 
of a policy. This ensures that, regardless of the charges shown on fund factsheets, 
investors are charged the correct amount.
Aegon is unable to provide this information in advance as it wont know the expenses 
of running the underlying fund (such as audit fees, administration fees) until they are 
incurred. These fluctuate daily meaning the overall percentage can vary annually. 
Therefore, Aegon can only estimate what they will be, and this estimate is the 
percentage given on the fund factsheet. The additional expenses are calculated 
annually using information from the fund manager.
The percentage on the annual statement is the actual charge and is based on the 
charge deducted from the account, divided by the average daily value over the 
reporting period. 
So, put simply, the exact cost for managing the fund isnt known in advance. This is why it 
varies year on year. And its why Mr Bs statement shows a different charge each year and a 
charge different to that shown on the fact sheet. I understand Mr B would like a fixed charge 
so he can manage his pension more effectively, but this simply isnt possible. Some of what 
makes up the annual investment charge isnt known until its incurred. This is set out on the 
fund factsheet and I dont think the information contained in it is misleading.
Having reviewed all the documentation we have, I dont think Aegon has made a mistake 
when applying charges to Mr Bs pension. Ultimately, if Mr B isnt happy with the charges 
applied by Aegon, he can choose move his pension to an alternative provider.
Aegon paid Mr B £200 compensation for the delay in responding to his queries about 
charging. Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and Im not 
going to ask it to pay anything further. 
I note that Mr B has recently explained to our Investigator that hes raised further issues 
about both the customer service recently received form Aegon and the platform charge. 
These points were raised after our Service started reviewing this particular complaint. I can 
see Mr B has raised this with Aegon and our Investigator has set up a new complaint about 
this matter. So I wont comment further on that within this decision. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman