DRN-2642318
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) has handled his 
claim under a landlord home emergency policy. Hes unhappy it asked him to source his own 
contractor to carry out a repair to his tenanted property. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr D would like to be compensated for the time he spent in 
arranging and checking the repair. Hed also like reassurance that in future Astrenska will 
have contractors in place to deal with any claims.
Any reference to Astrenska includes agents and representatives acting on its behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Astrenskas already fairly resolved it for these reasons:
Theres no dispute things didnt go as they should have. Astrenska has 
acknowledged it could have done more to source a contractor when its proposed 
contractor didnt accept the job. It says if the agent had escalated the matter to the 
network team, further attempts could have been made to source an alternative 
contractor to attend to the emergency. 
If Astrenska had made every effort to source an alternative contractor instead of 
settling Mr Ds claim under the pay and claim option, I think its unlikely he would 
have needed to spend time and effort in finding his own contractor and arranging for 
the repair to be carried out. So, I think Mr D has been inconvenienced and its right 
he should receive some compensation.
Astrenska has said its now made more contractors available in the area. Its also 
offered to pay Mr D £75 compensation in recognition of this error and for sending the 
final response to the tenanted address instead of Mr Ds home address. Whats 
therefore left for me to consider is whether the compensation Astrenska has offered 
is proportionate to the inconvenience Mr D was put to.
The power to make an award for financial loss or for distress and/or inconvenience is 
provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
(available online), which sets out I can award fair compensation. Such an award must 
be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) 
have had.
I recognise Mr D feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable 
amount, given what hes said about his hourly rate. But we look at the overall impact 
a businesss mistake had on the complainant  rather than awarding compensation 
based on units of time or at a complainants hourly rate. I see no reason to depart 
from that approach in this case. 
Ive thought about the impact Astrenskas error had on Mr D overall. This includes the 
time he spent in finding a contractor as well as visiting his property twice during this 
period. Although I havent seen evidence of these, Ive also considered petrol and 
phone call costs Mr D has claimed. I appreciate the experience would have been 
frustrating for Mr D. Having thought about this carefully, I consider £75 to be a fair 
reflection of the trouble he has been put to. 
I recognise Mr D is likely to be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Astrenskas offer of compensation is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Astrenska Insurance Limited has already 
fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr D £75 if it hasnt already done so within 
28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman