DRN-3815722
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) dealt with his financial 
difficulties and that it reported his account as being in default.
What happened
In 2021, Mr J got in touch with a debt charity to help him with his financial difficulties. As a 
part of this, the debt charity got in touch with Sainsburys in May 2021 to agree a reduced 
payment plan on Mr Js credit card. Mr J was under the impression that the plan had been 
agreed for 12 months, but Sainsburys only agreed it for four months.
When the plan ended, this meant that interest and charges began to be applied again. Mr J 
was surprised by this as he thought the plan was running for 12 months. He contacted 
Sainsburys in October 2021. Sainsburys agreed to refund the interest and charges it had 
applied and encouraged Mr J to speak to the debt charity about a new plan.
Mr J did this, but Sainsburys didnt hear back from the debt charity until December 2021. At 
this point Sainsburys agreed to accept reduced payments and also refund interest and 
charges, but said that the account would now default because of the arrears on it and the 
lack of a contractual payment after so long. The account then defaulted in January 2022.
Mr J complained but Sainsburys responded to say that it hadnt made any mistakes. So Mr J 
brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into it. When this 
happened, Sainsburys noticed that some interest and charges had been applied after 
January 2022 and so refunded these and offered £50 for the impact this would have had on 
Mr J. Our investigator thought this was fair but said Sainsburys had applied the default 
correctly and fairly.
After this, Mr J provided more information and our investigator reconsidered things. They 
then said that Sainsburys hadnt made clear to Mr J or his debt charity that the plan was for 
four months. For this, they felt that Sainsburys should compensate Mr J £100. But they still 
felt that Sainsburys was entitled to have recorded Mr Js account as defaulted, where he 
hadnt made agreed payments for some time. 
Mr J disagreed and our investigator discussed the situation with him and Sainsburys  but 
still felt that Mr J would likely have defaulted. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must have been a confusing and frustrating situation for Mr J. Hes tried to do his best 
to work with Sainsburys and his debt charity to manage his account and pay what he can 
afford. But that hasnt always been easy and its clear that Sainsburys hasnt always gotten 
things right. Having considered everything here though  I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Sainsburys should remove the default its reporting.
It's not clear what information Sainsburys provided to Mr Js debt charity in respect of the 
payment plan agreed in May 2021. Whatever information was passed onto Mr J clearly gave 
him the belief that the plan here was for 12 months. Sainsburys has confirmed that it 
wouldnt agree a plan for that length of time though. So what I have to consider is what 
would the situation have been here if Sainsburys acted correctly.
That would mean that Sainsburys clearly explained to Mr J, or his debt charity, that the plan 
would have only been for four months. Mr J did benefit from four months of this plan, its just 
that he thought the plan would run for longer. So at the point he contacted Sainsburys in 
October 2021 and explained his position  I was pleased to see that Sainsburys refunded 
the interest and charges and told him that hed now need to speak to his debt charity to 
come to an arrangement to pay the account moving forward.
But, Sainsburys didnt receive any further payment proposals in October or November. In 
December, Mr Js debt charity did contact Sainsburys again with an offer of payment. But by 
this stage, Sainsburys viewed Mr Js financial difficulties as being long term as Mr J was 
nearly seven months in arrears. So it took action to default the account. 
I think it was entitled to do that in the circumstances. I say this because as our investigator 
has mentioned  thats in line with the relevant guidance over when a business should take 
action like this. Its also appropriate when someones difficulties are long term, because it 
usually means that interest and charges are suspended moving forward, so someone can 
make affordable payments to what they owe  without the balance increasing.
Here, seven months after a payment plan was first agreed, Mr J demonstrated that he still 
couldnt afford to make the full contractual payments. So I think Sainsburys acted fairly.
I know that Mr J feels strongly that the plan was agreed for 12 months. Ive not seen 
anything to confirm thats the case. Mr J has offered to provide proof of this  but we havent 
received anything to show this to date. It seems like whats more likely than not to have 
happened is that Sainsburys agreed the plan for four months, but simply didnt communicate 
that clearly to Mr Js debt charity. 
This being the case, I have to consider that impartially it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
Sainsburys should be held to a plan that it would never, or shouldnt have offered. Instead 
Mr J should be put back in the position he would be in were no mistake made, which would 
mean that he was clearly told that the plan here would be for four months. If that were the 
case then I think its more likely than not that Mr J would have still struggled to have maintain 
the account in line with the original terms after the plan finished.
There are clearly times when Sainsburys could have dealt with things better though. I do 
think its more likely than not that its communication around the payment plan here was 
lacking. And it shouldnt have applied interest and charges at times that it knew that Mr J 
was trying to work with it and a debt charity to deal with his account. Its refunded these, 
which is the right thing to do. But its also fair that it compensates Mr J for the impact its 
mistakes had. Taking everything into account, I think £100 is fair for distress and 
inconvenience caused here, so its that which Sainsburys should pay Mr J.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc should pay Mr J £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused here. I make no further award against it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman