DRN-2130132
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly removed his 
balance transfer offer.
What happened
Mr H says he set up his Virgin credit card account for payments to be taken on the 27th of 
the month by direct debit. He says December 2019 and January 2020 payments were taken 
on that date but in February 2020 Virgin tried to take the direct debit payment on the 26th. Mr 
H says he didnt have enough money in his account on that date and so Virgin removed his 
interest free offer even though he paid the amount some days later. He says that is unfair 
and would like compensation for what took place and for the offer to be reinstated as well as 
any interest refunded.
Virgin says its terms and conditions make clear that if a required monthly payment is late 
then it will withdraw any promotional offers. It says the monthly statement for February 2020 
made clear the payment was required by the 26th of that month but it wasnt made in time. 
Virgin doesnt accept making a mistake or acting unfairly.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin had acted in line with the terms and conditions and withdrew the promotional 
offer when it received a late payment. The investigator thought it was Mr Hs responsibility to 
make sure there was enough money in his account for the direct debit to be taken.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and maintains he set up the direct debit for the 27th of the 
month for the due date and says in any event he made the required payment that month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Virgin has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. 
I also make clear that I dont think it matters that Mr H did make a payment in February 2020 
as I find it was made after the due date.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr H would have agreed to 
when it was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that any promotional offers 
will be withdrawn if a required payment is either late or not received. Im satisfied that is what 
took place here, that Mr H was required to make a monthly payment by 26 February 2020, 
but he didnt. So, in those circumstances I dont think Virgin made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by removing the interest free promotional offer.
I appreciate that Mr H says that he set up the direct debit for the 27th of the month and Virgin 
tried to take the payment a day early. But I can see that January 2020 and February 2020 
statements both have the required payment date as the 26th of the month and both make 
clear that a direct debit payment request will be made on the 26th. So, I think Mr H ought to 
have been reasonably aware of what the statements said and that it was his responsibility to 
make sure there was enough money in his account to allow the successful collection of the 
direct debit. I also appreciate that Mr H has provided information from his bank account 
which show the direct debit dates as the 27th on the month. But Im satisfied that is the date 
the transaction was posted to his account and not the date the direct debit was made or 
attempted.
Overall, Im satisfied that on balance Virgin told Mr H the date the required payment was 
due, and it was his responsibility to make the payment or to ensure there was enough 
money in his account to allow the direct debit to be taken. In those circumstances I cant 
fairly order Virgin to reinstate any offers or refund any interest. I can see from Virgins 
records that Mr H changed the dates of the direct debit but for the reasons I have explained I 
find it was down to him to make sure those dates were before the required payment dates 
set out in the terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman