DRN-4369942
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd made errors when attempting to recover a payment.
What happened
Mr D was the victim of a scam which involved him making a transfer of £1,650 from his
Monzo account to the scammers account that was held with an overseas bank. Within a few
hours of making the payment, Mr D realised hed been scammed and contacted Monzo to
request they recover the payment for him. A few weeks later, Mr D realised Monzo hadnt
requested the recovery of his funds as hed asked them too. So, he raised a complaint.
Monzo responded to Mr D and explained that payments to overseas accounts are routed
through an intermediary agent (the intermediary bank) which then process the transfer to the
overseas recipient (the recipient bank). Monzo explained that theyd contacted the
intermediary bank and asked them to try to recover the transfer from the recipient bank, but
they had been told by the intermediary bank that it hadnt been possible to recover Mr Ds
money because no funds remained in the recipients account with the recipient bank.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Monzos response and noted that hed contacted the overseas
recipient bank himself who had indicated they were holding the transfer amount pending
contact from Monzo or the intermediary bank. Because of this, Mr D felt that Monzos delay
in requesting the payment recovery had been the reason the scammer had been able to
move the money out of the recipient account. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Monzo had asked the
intermediary bank to try to recover the money from the overseas recipient bank the day after
Mr D had reported the scam to them. But they also noted that the intermediary bank had
requested further information from Monzo to enable them to request the money from the
overseas recipient bank, and that Monzo didnt respond to that request until eleven days
later. And our investigator felt that Monzos delay had led to the intermediary bank being
unable to request the recovery from the overseas recipient bank in a timely manner.
Additionally, our investigator felt that the information provided by Mr D which indicated that
the overseas recipient bank had temporarily prevented the scammer from withdrawing the
money from the recipient account to be persuasive. And as such, they felt that if Monzo had
provided the information requested by the intermediary bank in a timely manner, it was likely
the intermediary bank would have been able to request the recovery before the overseas
recipient bank allowed the scammer to withdraw the money, and that Mr Ds money would
therefore have been recovered.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ds
favour and that Monzo should reimburse the £1,650 to Mr D along with 8% interest. Monzo
didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and said that
there was nothing to confirm that Mr Ds money remained in the recipient account and hadnt
been withdrawn by the scammer immediately after the payment had been received. So, the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 August 2023 as follows:
Ive reviewed the conversation between Mr D and the scammer as well as an invoice Mr D
received from the scammer, which prompted the payment of £1,650 by Mr D and which he
believed was a legitimate invoice from a reputable company. And having done so, Im
satisfied that Mr D has been the victim of a scam here and has lost £1,650 as a result.
Ive then thought about whether there was anything about the nature of the payment Mr D
made to the scammer which should reasonably have given Monzo cause for concern about
that payment such that they should have contacted Mr D before allowing it to complete.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a business such as Monzo is expected to
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the customer made the payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though
they authorised the payment. This could be, for instance, if the particulars of the payment
were unusual and out of character with how the account holder used their account, such as if
the transfer amount was unusually large.
In this instance, Mr D had only recently opened his Monzo account, and the payment to the
scammer was only the fifth transaction on the newly opened account. As such, I dont feel it
can reasonably be said that the payment to the scammer was out of character for the
account, because at the time of the payment there hadnt been a sufficient prior amount of
account usage to allow a reasonable picture of how Mr D maintained the account to be
arrived at. And because of this, I dont feel that it was unreasonable or unfair for Monzo to
have processed the payment to the scammer as per Mr Ds instruction to do so.
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo acted quickly enough to try to recover Mr Ds money
after being made aware by Mr D that a scam had occurred.
Unfortunately, Mr D didnt realise that hed been scammed, or make Monzo aware of the
scam, for several hours after hed made the payment to the scammer. Additionally, the
payment had been sent to an overseas recipient bank via an intermediary bank.
This meant that when Monzo first contacted the intermediary bank to which they had
transferred Mr Ds money and asked that bank to try to recover the money from the recipient
bank, a significant amount of time had already passed. And this is significant because its a
common feature of such scams that any money sent to a scammer is withdrawn from the
recipient account very quickly by the scammer, to prevent the money being recalled by the
victims bank when the scam is uncovered.
Having been contacted by Monzo about Mr Ds money, the intermediary bank then
responded to Monzo and requested further information to enable them to approach the
recipient bank and request its recovery. But Monzo didnt provide that further information to
the recipient bank for a further eleven days. And Mr D feels that Monzos delay in this regard
gave the scammer time to withdraw his money from the recipient account which meant that
he lost his money.Mr D feels this way because he reached out to the overseas recipient bank himself about the
scam not long after reporting it to Monzo. And he received a response which he feels
indicates that his money was still present in the recipient account at that time and which the
recipient bank was holding for his benefit pending formal contact from Monzo.
But I dont agree with Mr Ds assessment of the response he received from the recipient
bank. Instead, I feel that response confirms that Mr Ds notifying the recipient bank of the
scam has been recorded and passed to the relevant department and clarifies the correct
reporting process  that Mr D should ask Monzo to formally contact them  without
confirming whether any funds remain present in the account to be recovered.
This service has also contacted the overseas recipient bank and asked both if Mr Ms money
can be recovered, and if not, when the money was taken out of the account by the scammer.
But despite several messages sent to the recipient bank in this regard, weve only received
similar responses to that which was provided to Mr D, which dont give any indication as to
whether Mr Ds money remains present in the recipient account. And given that the recipient
bank isnt a UK bank and so isnt covered by this services jurisdiction, there isnt anything
more we can do to compel the recipient bank to provide a more detailed answer.
Unfortunately, this means I must arrive at a decision here based on what I think is most likely
to have happened, rather than with the benefit of knowing what did happen. And, in this
instance, given that its often the case in scams such as this that the scammer withdraws the
money from the recipient account very quickly, and given that the scam wasnt brought to
Monzos attention until several hours after it took place, I feel its most likely that Mr Ds
money had been withdrawn by the scammer before he reported the scam to Monzo.
Consequently, this means that I feel that any delays that Monzo may have made in trying to
recover Mr Ds money most likely had no tangible impact here  because I feel the money
had already in all probability been withdrawn from the recipient account before Monzo were
first informed that a scam had taken place.
This isnt to say that Mr D hasnt been the victim of a scam here. He clearly has been and I
sympathise with him. But my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this
complaint or instructing Monzo to take any further action.
This is because I dont feel that Monzo did anything wrong by processing the payment Mr D
instructed. And because Mr D didnt realise hed been scammed and report the scam to
Monzo until several hours after it took place, I feel this means that its more likely than not
that the scammer would have withdrawn the money from the recipient account before Monzo
had any opportunity to try to recover it.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision and said that he felt that Monzo should have 
flagged the transfer as being potentially suspicious because it was a relatively large amount 
being sent to an overseas account. And Mr D also feels that Monzo should have provided 
fraud warnings to him. 
But speaking generally, a payment of £1,650 by an account holder to an overseas account 
isnt particularly unusual or suspicious. And this is because many account holders 
legitimately instruct payments of this general type. 
Rather, a payment is deemed to be unusual or suspicious in the context of how the account 
holder has used their account up to that time. But in this instance, unfortunately, because the 
account was new, there was no prior account usage for Monzo to compare the payment 
instruction against. And given that Mr D instructed Monzo to make the payment, I continue to 
feel that it was reasonable for Monzo to have processed it in line with that instruction.Additionally, its unclear whether any generic warning about potential fraud was provided to 
Mr D at the time he instructed the payment. But if it wasnt, Im not convinced that this is a 
significant factor here. This is because Mr D was making the payment in response to what 
he believed was a legitimate advert from a well-known business. And so, I feel its most likely 
that Mr D, acting as he was under that belief, would have continued to make the payment 
even in light of any generic warnings about potential fraud he may have received.
Mr D has also explained that he believes that his money remained present in the overseas 
recipient bank account for some time, and that as such Monzos failure to respond to the 
information request from the intermediary bank was significant. 
I can appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling here, but as explained in my provisional decision 
letter, this service has made several approaches to the overseas bank regarding this matter 
without success. And without being able to confirm exactly if or when the money in question 
was withdrawn from the overseas account, I dont feel that it can fairly or reasonably be said 
that Monzo should be considered accountable for Mr D not being able to recover that 
money. In short, even in consideration of Mr Ds further submission on this point, I dont feel 
that theres sufficient evidence to confirm that the money would most likely have been 
recoverable, had Monzo responded to the intermediary bank when they first should have.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows from the above that my 
final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Monzo to 
take any action. I hope Mr D is able to recover his money from those that took it from him, 
but ultimately, I dont feel that Monzo should fairly be held accountable for Mr Ds loss as he 
contends. I hope that Mr D will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman