DRN-3162605
The complaint
Mr A and Miss D complain that they were mis-sold a life assurance with critical illness policy 
by Sesame Limited.
What happened
In 2015 Mr A and Miss D carried out a financial review using an Independent Financial 
Advisor (IFA) from Sesame Limited. This review was prompted by the fact the two-year fixed 
term on their mortgage had ended and they were looking to take out a new mortgage 
product. At this time they were not intending to increase their borrowing or change the terms 
of their mortgage. There was around £72,000 left on the mortgage.
As part of the review their life assurance was considered. At that time Mr A and Miss D had 
an existing joint decreasing term assurance policy with an insurer Insurer A. Theyd taken 
this policy out in 2013 alongside their two-year fixed term mortgage using the same IFA. 
But at that time the IFA was working for a different company. The policy had an 18-year 
term, an initial sum assured of £79,636 00 and a monthly premium cost of £82.87. By the 
time of the review, the sum assured was around £75,000. They had taken no further 
borrowing on the property in the meantime. The policy covered 51 critical illnesses and 
included total permanent disablement and waiver of premium cover.
In the review, the IFA said theyd identified a shortfall in cover of approximately £8,000. 
They also noted that there had been no material changes to Mr As or Miss Ds medical 
history since they took out their existing policy in 2013. So, they recommended Mr A and 
Miss D cancel the existing policy and take out a new joint decreasing term assurance policy 
through another insurer, Insurer B. The new policy had a 16-year term, an initial sum 
assured of £71,873 and a monthly premium cost of £85.62. The cover included total 
permanent disablement, childrens critical illness and waiver of premium cover. It had 37 
listed critical illnesses.
Sadly, in 2019 Mr A became ill and required surgery. He went to claim under his policy with 
Insurer B but this was declined as Insurer B felt there had been a misrepresentation of 
Mr As medical history when the policy was applied for. This matter was also brought to our 
Service to consider as part of a separate complaint, the merits of which I cannot comment on 
in this complaint.
Ultimately, Insurer B said it would never have offered critical illness cover had it been given 
all the information it felt it ought to have had. So, the critical illness part of the cover was 
cancelled, and the premiums paid towards this refunded. Insurer B said it would have offered 
life assurance, but it would have charged higher premiums for the same cover. So, Mr A and 
Miss D were offered the option of continuing this cover. However, the overall sum assured 
was proportionately reduced such that the initial sum assured for the decreasing life 
assurance policy was reduced to £56,446.
Over the course of having this claim investigated and declined, Mr A and Miss D began to 
have concerns over the sale of this policy by Sesame as they werent sure the 
recommendation to change insurer was suitable. They felt that, had they not been told to 
cancel their existing cover, theyd have had a payable claim with Insurer A; the health 
concerns that led Insurer B to decline the claim only emerged in 2015. So, Mr A and Miss D 
complained to Sesame. They highlighted that whilst the IFA said there was a shortfall, the 
original policy provided sufficient protection for their mortgage. The also said the new policy 
theyd been recommended covered fewer illnesses.
As part of its internal investigation, Sesame asked the IFA about the sale. His account is that 
he didnt have access to his own documentation from 2013, as hed moved companies. 
So, in advance of meeting with Mr A and Miss D he contacted Insurer A for details of the 
policy. He says Insurer A told him the policy had a sum assured of £64,104 over a 17-year 
term and the monthly premium cost was £89.72. Based on this information he recommended 
replacing the policy as he identified a shortfall in cover and could obtain a cheaper policy 
elsewhere. In support of his account he provided a handwritten document dated around a 
week after he met with Mr A and Miss D in 2015; this contained these incorrect policy 
details.
Sesame also contacted Insurer A to try to trace the call. No call could be found from the 
numbers searched initially, but the IFA later advised the call was made from a withheld 
number. The IFA couldnt provide further detail about the date or time of the call beyond the 
month and year. And Insurer A said it was unable to search for calls from withheld numbers 
without more information due to the volume of calls it receives.
After considering the evidence, Sesame didnt uphold the complaint. It agreed that with 
hindsight the recommendation wasnt suitable but it explained that its IFA had based his 
advice on the information hed been given at that time, particularly by Insurer A. 
Sesame concluded the IFA had recommended a more suitable policy based on that 
information and noted it wasnt responsible for the errors behind this. When assessing the 
suitability of the recommendation it had made, Sesame stated Mr A and Miss D would have 
been made aware of the critical illnesses covered by the policy in the Key Features 
documents they received at that time. It also observed that Mr A attended his GP the day 
after the Fact Find was completed with the IFA and that neither the back pain nor the 
appointment was declared.
Because they didnt agree Mr A and Miss D brought their complaint to our Service. 
They raised the following points:
Insurer A had searched its systems and could find no record of the contact Sesame 
says was made in 2015.
Sesame received over £2,000 of commission for setting up the new policy which 
provides motivation for the IFA making an inappropriate recommendation.
Our Investigator contacted Insurer A for further information, and it said all incoming calls 
should be logged against the relevant policy. It confirmed there was no record of a call from 
the IFA in 2015.
Insurer A also confirmed that had the policy Mr A and Miss D held with it continued, it likely 
would have paid a critical illness claim for Mr As surgery. However, after reviewing the 
relevant medical evidence, it explained that this would probably have been less than the sum 
assured because it also felt there had been a misrepresentation in the application made in 
2013. Albeit, a different one to that identified by Insurer B. In particular, it considered Mr A 
should have disclosed an A&E visit for chest pains in 2011 and high cholesterol levels. 
It categorised this misrepresentation as careless and explained that it would have 
proportionately settled the claim. And thats because it would have charged Mr A and Miss D 
higher premiums had it had all the information it felt it ought to have when the policy was 
applied for in 2013. It said a proportionate settlement would likely have been £49,322.84.Our Investigator upheld the complaint. They were of the view the recommendation was 
inappropriate and, had mistakes not been made, Mr A and Miss D would have kept their 
policy with Insurer A. They asked Sesame to step into Insurer As shoes and pay Mr A and 
Miss D the proportionate settlement, less the cost of the premiums Mr A and Miss D would 
have paid between 1 December 2015 and 3 October 2019.
Mr A and Miss D didnt agree, raising concerns about the lack of an award for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. They also raised the fact they have had to continue to pay on 
their mortgage in the meantime and questioned whether interest should be added to the 
payment.
In response, our Investigator clarified that they wouldnt increase the recommended award 
as they felt the impact was a result of the declined claim and not Sesames poor advice.
Sesame also didnt agree with our Investigators view. It said it had not been told by either 
Mr A or Miss D about the emerging medical issues relevant to the application to Insurer B 
which later led to their claim being declined.
Because no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I intended to reach the same outcome as the Investigator but I 
provided further information, particularly about what Insurer A said it would have done, which 
I felt both parties ought to have the opportunity to comment on before a final decision was 
given.
Mr A and Miss D confirmed they had no further information they wished me to consider.
Sesame disagreed with my provisional findings. It made the following points:
Insurer A already informed Sesame that it does not keep calls from so long ago due 
to the volume of calls received. So, the lack of a call recording doesnt mean that no 
call took place.
The IFA cannot be expected to remember every detail of every policy they sell. 
They rang Insurer A to confirm the details of the policy and it was reasonable that 
they took as accurate the information given.
Sesame disputes that Insurer A would have paid a claim. It stressed that insurers 
take non-disclosure very seriously and almost always cancel the plan and/or refund 
the premiums if a claim is made and subsequently declined owing to discrepancies 
around the health status of the customer. It said in all likelihood no insurer would 
pay out a CIC claim in the event of non-disclosure, even on a pro-rata basis. 
It wanted to see proof from Insurer A that a claim would have been paid had the 
policy been live.
It stressed again that Mr A didnt disclose his back problems to the IFA. 
Im now in a position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I begin, Id like to say that I was sorry to read about the health difficulties that both 
Mr A and Miss D have experienced over recent years. I would like to take this opportunity to 
wish them well moving forward.
Although a number of issues have been raised, my decision wont address every point or 
comment made. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure both parties that I 
have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our Service. But my 
decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr A and Miss D ought to have been advised to 
cancel their existing policy and take out the new one with Insurer B. The Key Facts 
Document indicates Mr A and Miss D were aiming to cover their mortgage borrowing in the 
event of death or critical illness. But there was no shortfall in their existing cover and the new 
policy was more expensive.
The lack of suitability based on the facts of the policies is something Sesame hasnt 
disputed. But Sesame has stressed that it made a suitable recommendation based on the 
information it was given. And it cant be held responsible for the fact Insurer A provided 
inaccurate information about the existing policy.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I must decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
In support of its account, Sesame has provided a handwritten document dated a week after 
the advice was given to Mr A and Miss D. This document lists the details of the two polices 
in a comparative table. And it does show incorrect details for policy A including a higher 
monthly premium and a lower sum assured.
But this evidence needs to be weighed against the fact Insurer A has told me all incoming 
calls for a policy are logged and that theres no record of any call from the IFA at that time. 
I appreciate the reasons put forward by the parties about why the call in question cannot be 
located by Insurer A. But the fact the call cannot be located doesnt change the fact that 
there should be a note of this call on the file and theres not. Which makes me place less 
weight on Sesames account.
In reaching this decision I have also thought about the fact the IFA who carried out the 2015 
review also set up the policy with Insurer A two years earlier. So even if I were to accept the 
IFA was somehow provided with incorrect information as part of the 2015 review, I think they 
had cause to question the information they were given. In particular, why there was suddenly 
a shortfall in existing cover. In saying this I am not expecting the IFA to remember the sale of 
or details of the policy from two years earlier. But I am expecting them to question why they 
would have previously provided advice that would have led to a shortfall in cover. The policy 
was taken out only two years earlier, for the purpose of covering the mortgage borrowing, 
and they had no evidence of further borrowing or payment holidays having taken place in 
that time  so there shouldnt have been a shortfall. I think this mismatch ought to have given 
the IFA some cause for concern and should have led them to question whether they had 
accurate information.
I appreciate that Sesame has highlighted these errors werent noticed or identified by Mr A 
or Miss D at that time either. However, given they were relying on an experienced 
professional to undertake the review and make recommendations, I can understand why 
they might not have noticed these slight errors in figures. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect them to question the information and advice given by their IFA in these 
circumstances.Having carefully considered the evidence, I think Sesame can fairly be held responsible for 
the incorrect advice given to Mr A and Miss D. So, my role here is to consider what would 
have happened had this mistake not occurred, and try to put Mr A and Miss D back into the 
position they would have been in.
I acknowledge Sesames point that it wasnt told about developments in Mr As health as part 
of the 2015 review or the application to Insurer B. I havent seen any evidence to suggest it 
was given this information, so Id agree it isnt responsible for the fact the new policy didnt 
pay out. And had a misrepresentation not occurred, Mr A and Miss D wouldnt be in the 
position of not having had a claim paid. So, I think Sesames point here is that it isnt solely 
responsible for the mistakes made and it couldnt have foreseen that taking out a new policy 
might compromise their cover.
But I dont think that Mr A and Miss D would have been in the position to make this 
misrepresentation if Sesame hadnt inappropriately recommended they take out a new 
policy. Term assurance policies are a form of investment, one Mr A and Miss D had been 
paying into for two years. And I cant see that ending the existing policy prematurely held any 
benefit for them. As outlined above, the policy with Insurer A was cheaper, and it provided 
suitable cover - which the documentation surrounding the recommendation in 2015 suggests 
was all Mr A and Miss D were seeking to achieve.
I have also seen nothing to suggest their needs changed in the following years and in 
support of this I note they retained the policy with Insurer B. So, when Mr As claim arose in 
2019, I think the policy with Insurer A would likely have remained in place.
Insurer A has since sent our Service information to show what it likely would have done with 
a claim from Mr A at that time. It has said it would have identified a misrepresentation when 
investigating the claim and would have paid the claim proportionately.
So, Ive assessed the evidence it has sent us to consider whether Im satisfied that, on 
balance, the claim would have been paid in the way Insurer A stated.
In doing so, Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the 
industry guidance, the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products September 2019. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer 
questions accurately, it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. And the standard of 
care is that of a reasonable consumer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application by the insurer were clear and 
specific. The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer 
had the opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the 
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or reckless, 
or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made a difference to the terms on which it would have offered the policy or that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all. 
Where a misrepresentation was careless, for an insurer to avoid (cancel from the start) the 
policy, CIDRA says that the insurer must show that but for the misrepresentation/s it would 
not have offered the policy at all. However, if the insurer would have offered the policy at a 
higher premium it should proportionately settle a valid claim.
The questions Insurer A identified Mr A as having answered incorrectly were:
Within the last five years have you experienced: chest pain, irregular heart beat or raised
cholesterol?
Within the last five years, other than in respect of the conditions that you have already
declared have you:
1. received any medical attention at a hospital as an inpatient or outpatient or
2. had or been advised to have any investigations, scans or blood tests?
Both questions were answered no by Mr A.
Mr As medical history shows that in January 2011 he went to accident and emergency with 
chest pains, he had investigations including x-rays, bloods and urinalysis. Mr A then visited 
his GP the following day and was told his cholesterol was high.
Further, in October 2011 Mr As optician advised him to have his cholesterol checked again, 
so tests were done and his cholesterol was found to be high. Mr A was given lifestyle advice 
and told to have his cholesterol checked again in one years time.
Here Im satisfied the questions asked are clear and specific. And I think a reasonable 
consumer, in Mr As position, ought to have declared the hospital visit for chest pains and 
the instances of raised cholesterol in response to this question.
Insurer A has confirmed Mr A was also sent a copy of his answers to check and Ive seen 
evidence Mr A returned a form to Insurer A confirming his answers were accurate. For all of 
these reasons I think it can be fairly argued there was a failure to take reasonable care here.
I think on balance its likely that Insurer A would have found this medical information when 
validating the claim. I say this noting Insurer B obtained this information in the course of its 
claim assessment. And Ive seen underwriting evidence that Insurer A would have increased 
the premiums had it had this information at the point of application  in particular, it would 
have rated the policy +50. So, Im also satisfied this misrepresentation was qualifying.
Insurer A says it would have categorised this misrepresentation as careless. This is in 
accordance with the code which states that if the rating that would have been applied to the 
policy is +50 or less, the category of deliberate/reckless cannot apply.
Im satisfied insurer A has used the formula set out in CIDRA to calculate that the 
proportionate settlement here should be £49,322.84.
Considering those factors mentioned above, I am satisfied Insurer A could and would have
paid the claim in the way it has stated.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account Sesames comments about what it thinks 
insurers generally, and Insurer A specifically, would do in these types of situation. But it is 
simply not accurate to state that no insurer would proportionately pay out a claim in the event of non-disclosure. Insurers must deal with misrepresentations in line with the relevant 
legislation which is CIDRA. And as outlined above, CIDRA requires claims to be 
proportionately settled under certain circumstances, and Im satisfied that includes the 
specific circumstances here. 
As an aside, I appreciate Sesame has asked for evidence from Insurer A that it would have 
paid the claim. But I have outlined Insurer As position, the evidence relied on and its 
consideration of CIDRA in significant detail above as it has been provided to me by 
Insurer A. This information was included in my provisional decision; so both parties have 
been given the opportunity to review this and provide any further representations in advance 
of a final decision. I think the information provided is sufficient in the circumstances for both 
parties to understand what decision Insurer A would have reached and why. So, I dont 
intend to provide any further evidence to either party on this point.  
So, had Sesame not recommended the policy be cancelled, I think this is what Mr A and 
Miss D would have been paid. And I think this claim should now be paid by Sesame given 
Im satisfied that this likely would have been paid but for its error.
But when thinking about a fair outcome to this complaint I also need to consider the fact that 
had this policy been retained, Mr A and Miss D would also have continued to pay premiums 
to Insurer A throughout that time at a cost of £82.87 per month. These would have been 
payable until the beginning of October 2019. Insurer A has confirmed the last premium was 
collected on 1 November 2015. Its also confirmed they were paid two weeks in arrears. So, I 
think Mr A and Miss D would have paid a further 46.5 monthly premiums. This is a total cost 
of £3,853.46. So, I think this amount can be fairly deducted from the award.
I realise that had this happened, Mr A and Miss D then wouldnt have paid the premiums to 
Insurer B. But the critical illness amount has since been refunded and they have been given 
the option of keeping the additional life assurance cover, cover that they otherwise wouldnt 
have had. So, I think its reasonable that they pay the premiums for this if they choose to 
keep the policy.
I also dont feel it would be appropriate to recommend an additional payment for distress and 
inconvenience. Whilst I dont doubt that it was incredibly distressing to have a claim declined 
and to have to raise complaints with the relevant businesses involved in an effort to resolve 
things, Im not persuaded that this was a result of Sesames error. As had 
misrepresentations not occurred, Insurer B would have paid the claim and Mr A and Miss D 
may have remained unaware about the issue with the advice given in 2015.
With this in mind, I will not be adding interest to the payment I will direct Sesame to make, as 
Im not persuaded its responsible for the delays in the payment of this claim. Im satisfied 
that a fair outcome to this complaint is for Sesame to pay Mr A and Miss D a proportionate 
settlement to this claim as outlined above.
My final decision
Taking everything into account, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Sesame Limited to:
Pay Mr A and Miss D £49,322.84 less £3,853.46 worth of premium costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jade CunninghamOmbudsman