DRN-2769662
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled things after 
third parties made a claim following an accident in which Mrs Ms daughter was driving her 
car whilst uninsured.
What happened
Mrs M had a car insurance policy underwritten by Advantage.
Mrs Ms car was involved in an accident whilst being driven by her daughter. Mrs M says 
both she and her daughter believed her daughter was insured to insured to drive the car 
under her own insurance policy. In fact, she wasnt.
The car ran into the rear of another car on the approach to a roundabout. Mrs M says there 
was no visible damage to either vehicle. The three people in the other car got out and 
appeared fine. Mrs M said they exchanged insurance details, but it appeared at the time that 
the matter wouldnt be pursued any further.
In fact, the third parties made a claim for damage to the car and injury to themselves. The 
third party insurer approached Advantage, as the insurer of the car. Advantage referred 
them on to Mrs Ms daughters insurer, having been told she was insured under her own 
policy to drive the vehicle.
When it became apparent that Mrs Ms daughter wasnt insured, the case proceeded to 
court. And, to cut a long story short, Advantage paid out over £27,000 to the third party 
insurer. Advantage are now pursuing Mrs M  and her daughter - for the recovery of those 
costs.
Mrs M complained to Advantage about this. She felt that the third parties injury claims were 
at the very least exaggerated. She thought Advantage hadnt listened to her testimony about 
the incident when they interviewed her - and hadnt kept her informed about the case. And if 
they had done so, she would have provided further evidence which might have allowed a 
better defence against the claims  or the amount awarded by the court, at least.
She also felt there were delays in the handling of the case which meant that causation 
couldnt be disputed by the time the case went to court. And she thought Advantages 
solicitors hadnt passed on correspondence to her daughter which was meant for her, which 
meant she couldnt properly represent herself in the proceedings.
Advantage didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint, so she brought it to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear at the outset that we can only look into what happened between 
Advantage (and their agents) and Mrs M, who was their customer. Advantage dont have 
any relationship with Mrs Ms daughter  they dont provide financial services to her.
I might also say that I cant go behind the outcome of the court case.
I think its useful in this case to set out, first of all, the facts which arent disputed between 
Advantage and Mrs M. 
In short, Mrs Ms daughter was driving Mrs Ms car without being insured to do so. Mrs M 
says they were both mistaken about the cover provided by her daughters policy. But I think 
Mrs M rightly accepts that was their responsibility.
Theres no dispute either that Mrs Ms daughter was at fault and caused the accident. She 
drove into the back of the car in front, which had stopped.
In these circumstances, Advantage are under an obligation  as the insurer of the vehicle  
to pay out against any legitimate third party claims. They are then entitled to seek to recover 
any such costs from both the uninsured driver and the person who had the relevant 
insurance policy.
And thats exactly whats happened in this case. Advantage have paid out to settle the third 
parties claims  and they are entitled to seek to recover those costs from Mrs Ms daughter 
and from Mrs M.
So, in principle, I cant see that theres anything unfair or unreasonable in what Advantage 
have broadly done.
Mrs Ms complaint centres around the fact that she appears to have evidence (from social 
media) that one of the third parties appeared not to be as injured as he claimed. 
And Mrs M thinks that if she had been kept up-to-speed on the progress of the case by 
Advantage, or Advantage had been more energetic in seeking her testimony, a better 
argument might have been made in court and the court would likely not have awarded the 
same damages.
I should point out here that Advantage had absolutely no interest in higher damages being 
awarded. They, after all, were set to pay the bill  and there was and still is no guarantee 
that theyll get that money back.
Advantage were presented with properly-documented repair costs for the third party car. It 
wasnt unreasonable for them to conclude it would be difficult to dispute those costs in court.
The submissions to the court also include medical reports on the three occupants of the third 
partys car. These were very clear that injuries had been caused by the accident  and about 
the extent of those injuries.
Mrs M was interviewed by Advantages agents soon after the accident. There were some 
delays after this point, because Advantage pointed the third parties insurer at Mrs Ms 
daughters insurer. They did this because they had been told Mrs Ms daughter was insured 
to drive the car. It then took the third parties insurers and Mrs Ms daughters insurers some time to 
communicate the fact that there was in fact no insurance in place. Im not going to hold 
Advantage responsible for any significant part of those delays. 
The fact the third parties insurer had been sent on a wild goose chase was at least in part 
the fault of Mrs M and her daughter, who provided inaccurate information (I assume 
inadvertently). Theres no evidence after that point that Advantage  rather than the two 
other insurers  were responsible for any unreasonable delay.
I cant see any evidence at all that Mrs M attempted to proactively communicate with 
Advantage about whatever she and her daughter had found out through the third partys 
social media profile. Indeed, Mrs M said she assumed the case had fallen by the wayside.
There was also little reason for Advantage to contact Mrs M again. The main facts were not 
in dispute  and Advantage had no reason to suspect that Mrs M had more information 
which might help.
In any case  and perhaps more importantly  the court proceedings were against Mrs Ms 
daughter. And Advantage later joined as a second defendant. 
Ill repeat again  Mrs Ms daughter isnt Advantages customer and they owe her no 
obligation. If the court case were to be resisted / defended more effectively, it seems to me 
thats at least in equal measure down to Mrs Ms daughter  a party to the case who is 
completely independent of Advantage. 
Mrs M says her daughter was unaware of the court proceedings until it was effectively too 
late. I cant reasonably say that has anything at all to do with Advantage. 
Mrs M has suggested that some court correspondence aimed at her daughter was mis-
directed to Advantages solicitor. If that is the case, theres no evidence Advantage  or their 
solicitors - were to blame for that. Im aware the Solicitors Regulation Authority have looked 
into this and didnt find that their rules or standards had been breached.
In summary then, Mrs Ms daughter drove her car without insurance and caused an 
accident. Advantage were obliged under the Road Traffic Act to pick up the bill for that. 
Those costs have been awarded through the court process, with the evidence taken into 
account. Advantage are now entitled to seek those costs back  from Mrs M and her 
daughter.
Mrs M believes she has persuasive evidence that a third party perjured himself in the 
evidence provided to the court. Its not for me to comment on that. But the evidence Mrs M 
now has was not before the court at the relevant time  in a case to which Mrs Ms daughter 
was a party (indeed, the first defendant) and was not represented by, or in any other way 
connected to, Advantage or their agents, who owed Mrs Ms daughter no obligation at all. 
To put it bluntly, I cant reasonably hold Advantage (or their agents) responsible if Mrs Ms 
daughter didnt make her case to the court.
If Mrs M  or her daughter - believe they have effectively not been allowed to present 
relevant and persuasive evidence to the court, they will need to take their own legal advice 
about whether the outcome is now challengeable or whether they have any other recourse in 
law.But Im satisfied that Advantage, given the nature of their relationship with Mrs M, werent 
responsible for that further evidence not coming to light at the appropriate time. It wasnt for 
them to keep Mrs Ms daughter informed or to prompt her to submit evidence to the court.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman