DRN-3621099
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about the decreasing term life assurance (DTA) policy sold to him by 
National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank.
What happened
Mr P took out a DTA policy in 2001, alongside a new mortgage, when he moved house. In 
late 2006, he sold the house with the assistance of his legal guardian, whilst he had an 
extended stay in hospital. He didnt buy another property and the mortgage was redeemed  
but the policy remained in place.
In 2021, Mr P received a letter from Aviva telling him that the policy was about to expire and 
would have no remaining value. He was very upset by this  he thought the policy was a 
whole of life policy, or at least that it would have a savings element. 
Mr P complained to Ulster Bank. He says they shouldnt have sold him a policy which 
expired with no value and also that they should have cancelled his policy when his house 
was sold in 2006. 
Ulster Bank looked into the matter. It took them a few months to fully investigate Mr Ps 
complaint, so they paid Mr P £100 to apologise for the delays. But, they said, they hadnt 
done anything wrong in relation to the policy. Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigators view was also that Ulster Bank hadnt done anything wrong. She said it 
was likely that the DTA policy was suitable at the time of sale, and she said that Mr P or his 
legal guardian would have had to cancel the policy  its not an action that Ulster Bank could 
have taken on his behalf. Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr P but Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain 
why below. Mr P has raised many different points and concerns during the course of our 
investigation but Ill focus on the key issues here. When we dont have all the evidence 
available, I have to consider whats most likely to have happened based on what we do 
have.
The sale of the policy in 2001
Due to the length of time thats passed, we dont have access to a full set of documents from 
the time of the sale. However, Mr Ps confirmed that he bought a property in 2001 and that 
he took out additional lending at the same time. It was very common in 2001 for life 
assurance to be a condition of lending. Im persuaded that Mr P needed to take out some life 
assurance to proceed with the mortgage.
When advising Mr P on life assurance, the regulations required Ulster Bank to recommend a 
product that met Mr Ps needs and objectives. When life assurance is taken because its a 
condition of a mortgage, wed often expect the term and sum assured to match the length 
and value of the mortgage. Without the mortgage details, I cant be sure that this policy 
exactly matched the mortgage, but it was a policy with a fixed term and a decreasing sum 
assured which is likely to have been a near match. 
Mr P says he wouldnt have wanted a policy that wouldnt pay out at the end. But a policy 
that would have a value at the end would have been significantly more expensive. A 
decreasing term assurance policy would usually have been the most cost-effective way to 
manage the mortgage requirement for additional life assurance. So Im satisfied Ulster Bank 
recommended a suitable policy at the time. 
Non-cancellation of the policy
It seems the crux of Mr Ps complaint is that Ulster Bank didnt cancel the policy in 2006 
when his mortgage was redeemed. It wouldnt have been appropriate for Ulster Bank to 
cancel Mr Ps policy, or to stop payments to it. The policy was a contract between Mr P and 
the policy provider, which Ulster Bank wasnt a party to  theyd simply advised on the sale 
of the policy. After the mortgage had been redeemed, the policy would continue to have paid 
out the sum assured if Mr P had died  so it still provided a potential benefit. 
I appreciate Mr P says he wasnt able to cancel the policy in 2006 because he was 
incapacitated in hospital. And he says he didnt have policy documents so wasnt aware that 
the policy wouldnt have any value to him. I can see that the policy provider sent the key 
details of the policy (though not the full policy) to Mr P in 2015. And that was in response to 
him telling the policy provider that the policy documents had been lost in a flood. But the 
whereabouts of the policy documents doesnt really have a bearing on the fact that Ulster 
Bank couldnt have cancelled Mr Ps policy on his behalf. So Im satisfied Ulster Bank didnt 
do anything wrong in not cancelling the policy.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
4 January 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman