DRN-1631683
The complaint
Miss L and Mr P have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not 
refund the money they lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Miss L and Mr P had been searching online for a rental property. When they found a 
property available that they were interested in, they got in touch with who they thought was 
the owner of the property. But unbeknown to Miss L and Mr P this was in fact a scammer. 
Miss L and Mr P purchased the title deed for the property to make sure they were speaking 
with the owner. Miss L and Mr P say the name of the person they were in contact with 
matched the name on the title document for one of the owners. 
Miss L and Mr P also received a tenancy agreement signed by one of the property owners, 
which they signed and sent back to them. 
On 1 March 2019, Miss L made an online transfer of £1,750 for the deposit and one months 
rent to the account details theyd been provided with.
 
Miss L and Mr P say two days before they were due to move into the property, they received 
a message from one of the true property owners who told them the advert online was a 
scam. It was at this point Miss L and Mr P realised theyd fallen victim to a scam. 
 
Mr P contacted NatWest on 14 March 2019 to report the scam. NatWest contacted the 
receiving bank to try and recover any funds, however, the receiving bank told NatWest that 
no funds remained. 
Miss L and Mr P complained to NatWest. NatWest in its response commented that as theyd 
willingly made the transaction to the intended account, the bank cannot refund them and be 
held liable for the loss. However, NatWest did acknowledge poor service was provided. It 
said the operator should have fully explained the scam process and that the bank cannot 
credit any funds back to their account. It also added the operator should have advised, if 
Miss L and Mr P were in financial difficulty, of organisations they could have contacted for 
further assistance. After Mr P contacted NatWest further, it paid £100 in relation to this 
aspect.  
As NatWest wouldnt refund the transaction subject to Miss L and Mr Ps complaint, they 
brought it to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think 
the payment would have been particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to NatWest 
considering Miss L and Mr Ps normal account and payments activity. She was also 
satisfied NatWest did what it could to recover the funds once it was aware of the scam but 
that unfortunately no funds remained. Our investigator recognised that Miss L and Mr P 
didnt feel NatWest had provided enough advice or support following the scam and, that 
they were not updated within 45 days. However, she felt the £100 NatWest had paid in 
recognition of what went wrong was appropriate compensation in the circumstances.
Miss L and Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary: 
Mr P, when speaking with our investigator, referred to a payment of a similar amount 
from September 2018, which he says was blocked by the bank. He asked our 
investigator why this didnt happen on this occasion. 
Mr P subsequently confirmed the payment hed referred to had been made from 
Miss Ls sole account and not the joint account in question. Mr P made the point that, 
if anything this seemed stranger, as this meant there hadnt been a payment of this 
size or similar since the joint account was opened. 
Miss L and Mr P feel the payment made to the scammer was out of the ordinary for 
their account. Mr Ps commented that since the scam payment, the bank has 
implemented changes when making a payment. Hes said this indicates to him that 
the bank is aware they werent doing enough to help prevent scams.  
Because Miss L and Mr P didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss L and Mr P, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that their money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about NatWests actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment to leave their account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
It's accepted by all parties that the payment of £1,750 was authorised. The payment was 
authorised through setting up a new payee and then making an online payment to the 
account details Miss L and Mr P had been provided with.
Because of this, NatWest had an obligation to follow their instruction. But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice 
NatWest shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when it processed the payment instruction?
With this in mind, Ive first thought about whether the payment Miss L and Mr P made was 
out of character and unusual. While I recognise Miss L and Mr P hadnt made a payment of 
this size since the account was opened, I need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for 
consumers to make one-off transactions for this amount  as was the case here for a deposit 
and one months rent for a rental property.
  
Having looked at the joint account statements from November 2018 up to the scam 
payment, I can also see the scam payment didnt clear the account or leave it in a negative 
position. 
Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont find 
that a payment to a new payee was in itself so suspicious and unusual that NatWest ought 
to have automatically thought it was suspicious and been concerned Miss L and Mr P were 
at risk of fraud or financial harm.
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per its customers 
instruction and monitor accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. Id like to 
assure Miss L and Mr P that Ive carefully considered their personal views about the 
payment made - specifically their reasons outlined above. But, when taking all the above into 
consideration, Im not persuaded the payment was so unusual or suspicious that NatWest 
ought to have intervened in the particular circumstances of this case before the payment 
was processed.
 
Reporting and recovery of funds
Ive gone on to think about whether NatWest did what it shouldve done once Miss L and 
Mr P reported that theyd been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
NatWest to refund the money to Miss L and Mr P, Id need to be satisfied NatWest should 
have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I 
need to decide whether it made any difference.
Im satisfied that NatWest acted in a prompt and timely manner in trying to recover the funds 
for Miss L and Mr P, but unfortunately by the time the scam was reported no funds 
remained. I also have to keep in mind that the scam was reported 13 days after the payment 
was initially sent. Based on what Ive previously seen in these situations, scammers usually 
move funds on quickly. This means I dont think any more could have been done in this 
particular case to recover the funds. 
I am sorry that Miss L and Mr P have lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for them 
to have lost. I also understand this whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say NatWest should refund Miss L 
and Mr P the funds lost.
 
NatWest has recognised the service provided to Miss L and Mr P could have been better. To 
recognise this NatWest has paid £100 compensation to them. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and make no further award in relation to this aspect. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss L and Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman