DRN-1278288
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in May 2001. Mr J says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr J bought the policy in May 2001 during a telephone conversation with MBNA. The policy 
cost 68p per £100 Mr J owed on his credit card and it wouldve paid 3% of the outstanding 
balance on the card each month for up to 12 months if Mr J couldnt work because he had 
an accident, was unwell or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. He says he didnt ask for the policy; the terms and 
conditions and exclusions werent explained to him and the policy wasnt optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case. Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
MBNA says Mr J applied for his card when he completed an application form. It says he 
ticked a box on the form to confirm he wanted to purchase PPI. But for reasons it cant 
explain, MBNA says it didnt add PPI to Mr Js account at this time. Instead, when he had a 
telephone conversation with MBNA two weeks later, a representative from MBNA sold him 
the policy. It says it was at this time that the policy was added to his account  and its 
provided a copy of its internal screen shot that it says records this. So, based on everything 
Ive seen - Im satisfied its more likely that the PPI was sold over the telephone.
Unfortunately, MBNA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording, but this isnt 
surprising given its nearly 20 years since that call took place. So I dont know what it may 
have said to Mr J when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of MBNAs sales 
process at this time, I think Mr J wouldve understood the policy was optional. And I think he 
wouldve had to agree to the PPI in order for it to have been added to his account.
Furthermore, the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements - so if he hadnt agreed to the policy, or if it had been added to his account 
without either his knowledge or his consent, I think its reasonable to say he wouldve 
queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added to his account in 2001. So taking all 
this into consideration, I think Mr J knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it 
because he saw some value in at the time.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J  this means it didnt have to take adequate steps 
to ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it still had to give Mr J information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not to 
take the policy out.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But its unlikely Mr J wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover  he told us he was employed and in good health. And based on what I know about 
his circumstances and what hes told us - it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
He did tell us he had some sick pay from his employer  but this policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this, and for longer. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said  but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman