DRN-3724399
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs T made a claim on her motor insurance policy on 18 February after she was involved in 
an accident. Aviva arranged for the car to go to a garage, but the garage said it had no 
capacity to carry out the repairs. There were further delays in the car getting collected and 
taken to another garage and this meant that the repairs didnt start until over a month later. 
The garage told Mrs T that her car keys were damaged while the car was being transported 
to it, so Mrs T complained to Aviva about this and about the delays. Mrs T says Aviva offered 
her £150 compensation for the delays and also agreed to replace the keys. 
When the car was returned to her in early April, Mrs T contacted Aviva to complain that her 
V5C certificate (the vehicle log book) was missing as was her cars service history booklet. 
Aviva raised this with the salvage agent that had collected the car but didnt address the 
complaint until 22 April when Mrs T asked for an update. 
The V5C was located but the service booklet was not. Aviva initially offered Mrs T £75 for 
the loss of her car documents which it later increased to £200. It also offered to write a letter 
to her to confirm that it had lost her cars service history. Mrs T told us that Aviva also told 
her that if she came to sell her car and it was worth less than it would have been if it had its 
service history she should ask the garage buying the car to state the price difference.
Mrs T didnt accept Avivas offers. She said her car was worth 20% less without the service 
history and that a letter from Aviva wasnt a substitute for this. She said this had been 
confirmed by garages that she had spoken to.
 
Mrs T then complained to us and said she wanted to be compensated for the reduction in 
the resale value of her car and for all the time, inconvenience and stress she had suffered. 
She added that she also had to change her cars cambelt as she had no record of when it 
had been last changed.
 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that Avivas offers for the 
delays and for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of the service booklet to 
be fair and reasonable. She asked Aviva to provide a letter to confirm the documents had 
been lost whilst in its possession, as Aviva had already offered to do, and also said that she 
couldnt ask it to compensate Mrs T for the reduction in her cars value as the loss hadnt 
materialised yet. She agreed with Avivas offer of reviewing the matter at the point when 
Mrs T sold or traded the car in. She said that if Mrs T was unhappy with Avivas offer at that 
stage she could raise a further complaint. Our Investigator didnt agree that Aviva should 
compensate Mrs T for the cost of the cambelt and said there was no way of knowing it 
needed replacing at that point.
 
Mrs T didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said she understood that 
the loss may not have materialised yet but her car, as an asset, is now worth considerably 
less. She said she will never be able to prove or provide evidence of any loss when she 
comes to sell her car. In terms of the cambelt she said she couldnt risk it snapping as it 
could have destroyed the engine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Avivas offers to Mrs T are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T but I explain 
below how I arrived at this conclusion.
 
I understand that, after her complaint to us, Mrs T found out that her car was mistakenly 
categorised as a category N salvage but Aviva has since confirmed that this marker has 
been removed. I think this is fair and reasonable. I also understand that Mrs T is unhappy 
with the quality of repairs that were carried out on her car. As this is something she raised 
after she complained to us, as our Investigator said, it is something she will have to raise 
with Aviva first and then us if she is unhappy with its response. 
I dont think Aviva disputes that there were delays in Mrs Ts car going in for repair and also 
that her service history booklet was lost whilst in the possession of one of its agents- and 
therefore that it is its responsibility. So I will look at whether the compensation it offered 
Mrs T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs Ts car went in for repairs over a month after Mrs T made a claim to Aviva. I think those 
delays were unreasonable and outside Mrs Ts control. And for that reason I think Mrs T is 
entitled to compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered. 
Mrs T suffered the added distress of discovering that her cars service history had been lost. 
I think this is also something she should be compensated for. Aviva offered to write a letter 
confirming the documents were lost whilst in its possession and I think this is fair and 
reasonable. Overall I think the £150 and £200 Aviva has offered Mrs T for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her is fair and reasonable and in line with what I would have 
awarded in cases with similar delays and poor service. 
Mrs T says that £200 does not cover the loss of value that her car has suffered. She said her 
car was worth around £8,500 at the time of the accident and that the loss of the service book 
meant it was now worth 20% less- which is more than £200. 
I agree that the loss of service history can affect a cars value but I think this becomes less 
important as the car gets older and may have no material impact after a few years. Mrs Ts 
car is nine years old and so I think the impact of this will be less than it would have been if 
the car was new. In any event as our Investigator said I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Aviva to compensate Mrs T for this as this loss has not yet 
materialised. And until it does when Mrs T sells or trades her car in, we wont know what the 
impact has been, if any at all. I also think that Avivas offer to review the matter as and when 
Mrs T does sell her car to be reasonable. Mrs T said it will be hard for her to prove her loss 
at that stage but I think Avivas suggestion that the new buyer provides some evidence to 
show their offer is lower as the car doesnt have full service history to be one way of tackling 
this. But there are also other tools insurers can use to determine whether or not a car was 
sold below its market value. Mrs T said she had to replace her cars cambelt as she didnt know when it was last replaced 
and didnt want to risk it snapping. I understand why Mrs T wants to be cautious when it 
comes to her car but I dont think its reasonably foreseeable that the loss of the service 
history would lead to the cambelt having to be replaced. Also, as our Investigator said there 
is no way of knowing that replacing the cambelt was necessary at this stage and also as 
Mrs T said it may have needed replacing in a few years in any event. So, its a loss she may 
have suffered in any event. For these reasons I wont be asking Aviva to compensate Mrs T 
for this. 
Putting things right
Aviva insurance Limited must pay Mrs T £350 and if it has already paid part of this it must 
only pay the balance. It should also provide Mrs T with a letter explaining that the loss of her 
cars service history happened whilst it was in its possession. Aviva Insurance Limited has 
also said it will review the matter if/when Mrs T comes to sell her car.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer to provide 
Mrs T with a letter confirming her cars service history was lost while in its possession and its 
offer to review the matter once/if Mrs T comes to sell or trade her car in to be fair and 
reasonable. It should provide the letter to her if it has not already done so. I also think its 
offer of £350 in total for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs T to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and it should pay that (or the balance if its only paid part 
of it) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman