DRN-2403817
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA 
Underwriting) have dealt with a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. He contacted AA Underwriting to make
a claim for damage to his car.
AA Underwriting sent a letter to Mr L saying as the accident wasnt his fault it would look to 
recover all costs from the insurer of the other vehicle, and it arranged for Mr Ls car to be 
repaired at an approved repairer.
Mr L submitted petrol costs to AA Underwriting of £54.27 to cover taking his car to and from 
the approved repairer. These costs included that of a support car to follow him and take him 
home again, as well as the return trip to the garage.
AA Underwriting put those costs to the third-party insurer, but at a rate of 25p a mile, so it 
only asked for £25 to be reimbursed. The third-party insurer declined to meet them as Mr L 
hadnt provided evidence, such as a petrol receipt. AA Underwriting let Mr L know these 
costs wouldnt be reimbursed to him as they were classed as an uninsured loss. If he wanted 
to pursue them further, hed need to contact the other vehicles insurer direct.
Mr L complained to AA Underwriting, he said his policy stated that the insurer (AA 
Underwriting) would pay the cost of taking the car to an approved repairer and returning it to 
the insured address. He also complained about the service hed received, that hed been 
passed between companies and kept on hold on the phone for long periods of time. AA said 
the clause in the policy was only meant to apply where a car was undrivable. It explained Its 
approved repairer would have offered to collect Mr Ls car and he was also provided with the 
option of a car on credit hire, but he refused these options.
Mr L remained unhappy. He said hed been warned to keep additional costs to a minimum or 
they may not be paid. So, as he had the use of other vehicles, he refused a car on credit 
hire. He said the garage didnt offer to collect his car, so his only option was to drive it there 
himself. And, it only offered the use of a courtesy car when he got there, which was too late 
as hes already had someone follow him to take him home. 
AA Underwriting maintained its position, it also added that Mr L didnt take out extra cover for 
motor legal insurance cover or a separate provision for a courtesy car so it couldnt do 
anything more to help. Mr L brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. She said Mr Ls policy did 
say AA Underwriting would cover the costs associated with the car being taken to and, 
returned from an approved repairer. Hed acted reasonably by not taking a car on credit hire 
as he had use of other vehicles and there had been no evidence provided that the repairer 
offered to collect Mr Ls car. The investigator thought although Mr L didnt have receipts to 
show how much the petrol cost, it was reasonable to assume he would have used some 
petrol to get to and from the garage.
The investigator recommended that Mr L be reimbursed for the journey to and from the 
repairer. She said the policy doesnt specify it covers the journeys in between and also a 
courtesy car was offered to Mr L by the garage albeit only after hed arrived, so she didnt 
think AA Underwriting needed to cover the cost of those journeys. The investigator also said 
this should not be treated as a claim cost against Mr Ls policy.
AA Underwriting disagreed, it said it hadnt provided poor service to Mr L, it said it had 
contacted the repairer and its said it would have offered to collect the car from Mr L, but he 
declined. It reiterated the points it had made previously and said that, being asked to 
reimburse Mr L, given these costs cant be recovered from the third party, would mean this 
claim would need to be changed to a fault claim on Mr Ls record. It also pointed out that 
based on average petrol consumption these costs would only work out to be £12.
Mr L also responded to the investigator. He reiterated he was not offered the option of 
having the car collected and the costs he is claiming are considerably less that the £18.75 
per day cost of a hire car or the cost of taxis to and from the repairer. Mr L reminded the 
investigator this claim wasnt his fault and he didnt expect to be fighting with AA 
Underwriting for these costs. He mentioned he feels as if he is being accused of acting 
fraudulently.
The case has come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 19 November 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part, for the following reasons:
The policy term in question says the following:
The Insurer will also pay the costs of protection and taking the Insured Car to the nearest 
approved repairer or place of storage after such damage and where appropriate returning it 
after repair to Your address as shown in the Statement of Insurance ..
I appreciate AA Underwriting has said this term is meant to apply to cars that are not 
drivable, but it does not make this distinction within the wording or within the section it 
appears. Given the fact Mr L was not responsible for the accident and had received 
correspondence confirming all costs would be covered, I think it was reasonable for him to 
have the expectation that the costs associated with taking the car to and from the repairer 
would be covered.
AA Underwriting did try and recover these costs from the third party, which I think was a 
reasonable action to take. And, it has correctly said Mr L didnt have additional courtesy car 
provision or motor legal expenses insurance which would have helped to avoid or assist in 
recovering these costs.
However, I dont think the lack of the additional cover is relevant here. The complaint isnt 
about the fact an uninsured loss isnt being pursued with the third-party insurer, its about the 
term in the AA Underwritings policy.
I havent seen any evidence Mr L was offered the collection and delivery service
AA Underwriting has said was available. And similarly, the repairing garage hasnt confirmed 
with any certainty it did specifically offer the service to Mr L. Rather it appears the comment 
has been made about its usual process. Mr L, reasonably in my opinion, refused a car on 
credit hire and didnt take taxis to reduce costs, as is his duty to do so. However, he did this, based on what hed been told by AA Underwriting and the wording on 
the term in the policy. And he drove his own car to the repairer on the basis, costs of doing 
so would be reimbursed.
Having reviewed everything, I am intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint however my thoughts 
differ from the investigators on how the matter should be put right.
The investigator said AA Underwriting should work out how much it would have cost for Mr L 
to take his car to and from the garage, however I dont think this a reasonable way for AA 
Underwriting to put the matter right. Not least because the rate at which it should base the 
mileage costs on is in dispute. Different costs have already been put forward for this - 45p a 
mile, 25p a mile and then finally the rate specified on a government website.
Its clear to me, overall this matter has caused confusion and inconvenience to Mr L. Rather 
than award mileage costs, I think a more sensible way to put the matter right is for AA 
Underwriting to pay Mr L £50 compensation. This reflects the confusion the policy wording 
has caused and the trouble and upset Mr L has been caused having to try and resolve the 
matter.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint against AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. Im minded to direct it to pay Mr L £50 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L responded saying that while he accepted my provisional findings, he was still unhappy 
as he feels AA Underwriting has attempted to avoid fulfilling its obligations as set out in the 
policy. He tried to keep his costs low and that is being used as a reason not to pay.
AA Underwriting said it didnt accept my provisional findings. It made the following points:
The repairing garage has confirmed that Mr L changed the day he was to take his car 
for repair to a Saturday and this is one of the days they dont have any drivers. 
The notes from the garage reflect this and Mr L declined a hire vehicle.
Petrol charges are classed as an uninsured loss, it did what it could to reclaim them 
from the third-party insurer.
It disagrees Mr L has been inconvenienced and therefore doesnt agree with my 
proposed outcome of awarding Mr L compensation. 
If I feel it should pay Mr Ls petrol charges, as per his original complaint, then it will 
treat this as a claim against the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further evidence AA Underwriting has provided but Im not 
inclined to change my original findings. The notes provided by the garage only confirm that 
Mr L changed the day and had declined a hire car, both are facts which are already known. 
However, what the notes do not confirm is an offer was made to pick up the car in the first place.  While the garage has now provided information to say that it doesnt have drivers 
available on a Saturday, Im more persuaded by the notes taken at the time. 
I acknowledged in my provisional findings that AA Underwriting had attempted to reclaim 
some of the petrol costs from the third-party insurer and said I thought this was a reasonable 
action for it to take. I do accept the point, that usually such costs would be treated as an 
uninsured loss.
However, I still remain of the opinion it is the wording of AA Underwritings policy that has 
caused the confusion here. As I said in my provisional findings no distinction is made within 
the policy wording about costs being covered only for cars that are undrivable. And based on 
this, and the correspondence Mr L received, he had a reasonable expectation that his costs 
would therefore be covered.
Putting things right
Having considered everything, I see no reason to change my provisional outcome. I think 
Mr L has been caused trouble and upset and to put matters right, AA Underwriting should 
pay him £50 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited. I require it to pay Mr L £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman