DRN-3409977
The complaint
Mr J complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to UKI include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr J holds a travel insurance policy, provided by UKI, as a benefit of his bank account. 
Unfortunately, Mr J was unable to return from a trip abroad as planned, due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr J contacted UKI while he was abroad and 
subsequently made a claim under his policy for the additional money he spent during the 
time his trip was extended. 
Mr J provided documentation to UKI in support of the costs he was claiming for, but he says 
UKI continually asked him for the same paperwork. When UKI hadnt paid Mr Js claim 
around four months after hed returned from abroad, Mr J complained. 
UKI said the documentation for the accommodation costs which Mr J was claiming for didnt 
contain the information it needed to pay his claim. In particular, UKI said it was unclear when 
the accommodation had been booked. UKI said it had asked Mr J for more information and 
had also offered to contact the accommodation provider directly, but Mr J had declined this 
offer. UKI also asked Mr J for evidence that his trip abroad had started in the UK. Finally, 
UKI said it could no longer view the original accommodation documentation which Mr J had 
sent to it and acknowledged that the service it had provided to Mr J wasnt of the level which 
it would expect, so it paid him £250 compensation in recognition of any frustration caused. 
As Mr J remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought UKI was 
reasonably entitled to see the additional information it had requested before it made a 
decision about whether to accept Mr Js claim. Mr J didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Js 
complaint. 
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to confirm cover over the phone when its initially 
notified about a claim. A policyholder will ordinarily need to submit documentary evidence for 
an insurer to review before the insurer confirms cover. Based on the evidence Ive seen in 
this case, UKI didnt tell Mr J that his claim would be covered when he contacted it from 
abroad. Instead, UKIs records show it said it was covering claims of up to £5,000 in certain 
circumstances, and that Mr J should keep his receipts and speak to the claims department 
when he was ready to submit his claim.   
I dont intend to make any finding on whether I think the circumstances of this claim are 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy which Mr J holds with UKI. This is 
because UKI subsequently said it was prepared to consider Mr Js claim under the sections 
of his policy entitled Delayed or Missed Departure and/or Cutting Short Your Trip 
regardless.
Although Mr Js policy covers worldwide travel, it only does so for journeys that start and end 
at your home. Home is defined in the policy as the address where the policyholder 
permanently resides in the UK (England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Channel 
Islands, or the Isle of Man).
Based on all the information thats available to me, Mr Js trip seems to have started in the 
Republic of Ireland. So, I dont think it is unreasonable for UKI to ask for evidence that Mr Js 
trip started in the UK, as required by the policy, before deciding whether his claim is covered. 
Turning to the actual costs which Mr J is claiming for, I understand Mr J was unable to return 
from his trip through no fault of his own, due to circumstances outside of his control. But this 
doesnt mean that UKI will or must automatically pay his claim. UKI is entitled to carry out 
reasonable investigations to satisfy itself that the costs being claimed for are covered under 
its contract with Mr J, and Mr J needs to provide reasonable evidence in support of his claim. 
This is reflected in the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy, which say:
youmust provide at your own expense all certificates, information and evidence 
that we need in order to consider your claim.
and 
We are entitled to: 
refuse to pay any claim where you have not provided sufficient receipts, bills or 
evidence to support your claim. 
UKI has explained to both Mr J and to this service that the original handwritten 
documentation which Mr J submitted for his accommodation costs are no longer available for 
it to access. Mr J has refused to provide further copies of this documentation to our service. 
While I havent been able to see this documentation, UKI says it didnt contain the 
information it needs to satisfy itself that the claim is covered  including the dates the 
accommodation was booked, the dates of Mr Js extended stay, a breakdown of the cost of 
the extended stay and who (if anyone) else was staying at the accommodation. I have no 
reason to doubt what UKI has said about the content of the original documentation, and I 
dont think its unreasonable for UKI to request this extra information. UKI is entitled to know 
what the costs being claimed for relate to before paying Mr Js claim. 
UKIs notes suggest that Mr J said he couldnt provide any booking confirmation or official 
receipts for the accommodation costs. Its up to Mr J to provide evidence in support of his 
claim, and it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask UKI to pay Mr Js claim without any 
supporting evidence from a third party to demonstrate the amount he says he spent and 
what this money was spent on. Food and toiletry costs arent items which Id generally expect an insurer to pay for when 
considering a claim such as this, and Ive seen no evidence that Mr J was told by UKI that 
the cost of these items would be covered.
Overall, I think UKI is reasonably entitled to see the extra information it has requested before 
it decides whether to pay Mr Js claim. There arent any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask UKI to accept the claim without this information. So, if Mr J wants his claim 
considered further, hell need to send UKI the information it has asked for. 
I dont think UKI handled Mr Js claim promptly or provided reasonable information to him 
about the progress of his claim in a timely manner, as Id have expected it to. Mr J had to 
repeatedly chase UKI for updates, in a manner which hed already explained was difficult for 
him. UKI has acknowledged that there were delays on its part and that it provided 
inconsistent information to Mr J. UKI paid Mr J £250 compensation in recognition of these 
errors and I think this payment is fair and reasonable compensation, taking into account the 
impact which UKIs handling of the claim had on Mr J. 
I understand Mr J says he never accepted UKIs offer of £250 compensation, and that UKI 
told him he wouldnt receive any payment if he brought his complaint to our service. As I 
understand it, UKI has already paid the compensation to Mr J. If Mr J doesnt wish to accept 
this, he can arrange with UKI to return the payment to it. And, having reviewed this complaint 
independently and impartially, I dont think UKI needs to make any claim payment to Mr J 
based on the information it currently has. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I wont be directing UKI to do anything more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman