DRN-3306589
The complaint
Miss H complains about her insurer, Advantage Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) for damage she says occurred to her car while being returned to her after 
repairs following an accident. 
In referring to Advantage, I include their agents and representatives.
Miss H was supported by a representative in making her complaint. References to Miss H 
include her representative.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss Hs car was involved in a collision, where her car was hit from behind 
by another vehicle. She contacted Advantage who arranged for it to be taken to a repairer 
(A) for the damage to be fixed. A repaired the damage (to the bumpers of Miss Hs car) and 
returned it to her. 
When Miss H next came to drive the car (the following weekend) she noticed an oil warning 
light on and a message saying, do not drive the car. There was also a problem with an 
indicator not working. Miss H contacted Advantage, who arranged for the car to be delivered 
back to A, who were able to fix the indicator. But they couldnt find an issue that had caused 
the oil warning light. They asked Miss H to arrange for the car to be taken to a main dealer, 
which she did. The dealer ran a diagnostic check, which concluded an oil pump failure, 
leading to the engine being damaged and needing to be replaced (at a cost of £3,000). But 
the dealer couldnt determine at what point the oil pump had failed.
Miss H contacted Advantage, who said they didnt think A had caused the issue with the oil 
pump and neither had it been caused by the accident. Miss H challenged this, together with 
evidence that A had caused the issue. Advantage said theyd re-open the case and collect 
the car. The car was subsequently inspected by an independent engineer (H) who 
concluded the issue with the oil pump failure wasnt caused either by the accident or by the 
subsequent repairs.
Concerned at the time being taken to resolve the issues and how Advantage were dealing 
with them, Miss H initially complained to this service. The main elements of her complaint 
were that her car came back from A having the bumpers repaired but with an oil warning 
light on and the indicator not working. While A fixed the indicator, they said the oil warning 
light wasnt their responsibility and hadnt been caused by them. 
As Miss H complained to this service first, we asked Advantage to consider the issues shed 
raised as a complaint to them. In their final response they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
concluded the oil warning light came on towards the end of the [short] journey from A to Miss 
H. The oil level was checked, found to be ok and the driver completed the journey. They 
added that they believed the vehicle had been driven on two occasions after its return to 
Miss H (with the oil warning light on). Based on this, they concluded that neither they, nor A, 
were responsible for the damage to the engine (and that it was the responsibility of Miss H). 
However, Advantage did accept some delay getting the car back to A for inspection and 
offered £75 in compensation. They also said theyd refund the dealer diagnostic check and 
the cost of transporting the car to the dealer and its return to Miss H.
Following Advantages final response, our investigator considered Miss Hs complaint. She 
didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Advantage didnt need to take any further action. 
From the evidence available she didnt think the oil pump had been damaged in the accident 
or during the repairs carried out. Diagnostic checks carried out when the car was delivered 
to A and before its return didnt indicate an issue with the engine (or oil pump).  She also 
noted that oil starvation, causing engine damage, was a known issue with the make of Miss 
Hs car. She also didnt think there was persuasive evidence the engine was irreparably 
damaged while being driven back to Miss H, and that it was possible the irreparable damage 
occurred when Miss H drove the car after it was delivered back to her. On balance, she 
didnt think Advantage were responsible for the oil pump failure, the resulting oil starvation, 
or the damage to the engine.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said As driver shouldnt have continued to drive the car when returning it to 
Miss H when the warning light came on, along with the warning message to stop safely. 
She said that while the driver checked the oil level, the issue was not the level of oil but that 
it wasnt being circulated to the engine. So, in continuing to drive the car the driver caused 
damage to the engine, irrespective of the short distance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Advantage have acted reasonably towards Miss H.
The central issue in Miss Hs complaint is the cause of the damage to the engine and where 
responsibility for that damage lies. Miss Hs view is that the damage occurred when A was 
returning the car to her after completion of the repairs to the cars bumpers. She thinks As 
driver shouldnt have continued the journey  irrespective of how short the journey was  
and should have stopped when the oil warning light and message came on. Advantage say 
that the damage wasnt a result either of the accident nor of the repairs carried out by A. 
They point to the reports from A as well as the subsequent report from H in support of their 
view. They also say that Miss H also drove the car on two occasions after its return to her.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with evidence available. That includes 
evidence from A, Hs report as well as what Ive seen from the main dealer who inspected 
the car. But what doesnt appear to be in dispute is that the damage to the engine was 
caused by oil starvation due to the failure of the oil pump. So Ive gone on to consider, given 
the differing views of Miss H and Advantage, whether that failure (and the consequent 
damage to the engine) can reasonably be attributed to the actions of Advantage (including  
as the repairer). Having considered the point very carefully, then Ive concluded that it cant. I 
know this will be disappointing to Miss H, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, Ive considered the nature of the accident to Miss Hs vehicle and the subsequent 
repairs. But in doing so, Ive started from the position that the oil pump failure (and resulting 
oil starvation) hadnt happened at the point of the accident. Looking at the damage to Miss 
Hs car and the associated damage report, the indications are there was relatively mild 
damage to the front and rear bumpers. Taken together with the location of the oil pump, I 
dont think the accident is likely to have damaged the oil pump. Ive also seen diagnostic 
reports from A shortly after the car was recovered to them and again shortly before the car 
was returned to Miss H. While they indicate some issues (and there was an indicator issue 
that needed to be fixed) theres nothing in those reports to indicate a problem with the oil pump. And as Ive concluded that the accident damage isnt likely to have affected the oil 
pump, then I dont think its likely that repair of the damage would have caused the issue. 
This is also consistent with the conclusions reached by H.
 
Ive then gone on to consider the question of whether, in completing the journey to return the 
car to Miss H, the engine was irreparably damaged. When the oil warning light and message 
came on, As driver stopped and checked the oil level (which was ok). Ive also considered 
what Miss H has said, that the driver should have stopped and not continued the journey. 
She maintains that it was this action (to complete the journey) that caused the [irreparable] 
engine damage. And that the issue was oil pressure (starvation) rather than the level of oil 
itself. Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that this is clearly the case. 
Advantage has said that (based on what the main dealer told them) the car could have been 
driven for a period of up to two hours after the warning light and message. However, Ive 
also seen other evidence that damage would have occurred in a much shorter period. But 
what doesnt seem to be possible (from what the main dealer inspection concluded) is a 
clear point at which the oil pump failed (and the engine damage became irreparable). Ive 
noted that the indications are that Miss H started (and drove) the car subsequent on its 
return. Its possible that the damage only became irreparable at that point. Taking all these 
points into account, Im not persuaded that the actions of As driver clearly caused the 
[irreparable] damage.
 
Ive also considered what Advantage said about the oil pump (oil starvation) being a known 
issue with Miss Hs model of car. Ive seen some publicly available commentary and 
discussion forums that would seem to support this. While that doesnt necessarily mean that 
it was always possible (if not likely) to happen to Miss Hs car, I have thought about whether 
the cars maintenance history could have been a factor. Either because a clear, evidenced 
service history in accordance with the manufacturers required or recommended schedule 
would (all other things being equal) be less likely to occur. Or, that the absence of a clear 
evidenced service history could make it more likely to occur (and that it just happened that 
the issue may have started on the journey back to Miss H.
In thinking about this, I asked Miss H whether she could provide evidence of the cars 
service history (to demonstrate that it had been maintained in accordance with the 
manufacturers requirements or recommendations). Miss H provided an MOT certificate 
(March 2020) and said that at the same time as the MOT, she asked the garage to check all 
items and report if any servicing items were required (such as an oil change). However, she 
didnt have a separate invoice to detail what servicing had been carried out. While I dont 
doubt what she told us, in the absence of a clearly-evidenced service history, Im not 
persuaded that its the case that the car was demonstrably maintained in accordance with 
the manufacturers servicing requirements. So, I cant reasonably say that the issue with the 
oil pump wouldnt potentially have happened in any event. 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded that Im not persuaded that Advantage 
(or A) can be held responsible for the oil pump failure and the consequent damage to the 
engine. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 Paul King
Ombudsman