DRN-3327166
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr H have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFUM) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr H held business interruption insurance cover with NFUM. They claimed on 
their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response 
the pandemic. 
NFUM turned down Mrs A and Mr Hs claim. They said the policy generally covered 
business interruption as a result of damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt damaged 
property. They added that the extension for public emergency didnt provide cover as it 
excluded losses caused by infectious or contagious disease. 
Unhappy with NFUMs response, Mr H and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service. 
They said theyd bought business interruption insurance to cover them for when their 
business was interrupted. They also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case as a reason as to why their claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs A and Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld 
as she didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of their claim. 
Mrs A and Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs A and Mr Hs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFUM have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs A and Mr Hs claim. While Ive considered Mrs A and Mr Hs policy in its 
entirety, Im only going to comment on the parts of the policy which appear most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of Mrs A and Mr Hs policy covers loss of income as a 
result of damage to property used at their business premises. The policy defines damage as 
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Mrs A and Mr Hs loss of income was as a result of damage to property used at their 
business premises. Therefore, this section of the policy doesnt provide cover.
Extension for Public Emergency 
Cover under the policy is the extended through various extensions. This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a 
competent Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or 
property occurring in the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive 
hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment is relevant to Mrs A and Mr Hs complaint because the High 
Court considered a similar term to that within their policy and this part of the judgment wasnt 
appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Mrs A and    
Mr Hs premises closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations 
website describes as an infectious disease. Therefore, this section doesnt provide cover.
FCA test case
Mrs A and Mr H have referred to the FCA test case but whether a claim should be paid still 
depends on the terms and conditions of the policy. In this case, Im afraid that the Supreme 
Court judgment doesnt impact their claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mrs A and Mr H were hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman