DRN-2439578
The complaint
Mrs C complains about interest applied to her credit card account by Creation Financial 
Services Limited (Creation).
What happened
Mrs C has a credit card account with Creation. She receives her monthly statements by post. 
She says she has had the account for many years and that she always clears the balance in 
full each month. But Mrs C says that she didnt receive her statement in December 2019. 
She didnt notice at the time, as her personal circumstances meant she was focused on 
other things. But when she received her January statement, she saw that interest had been 
applied as well as a late payment fee of £12.
When Mrs C contacted Creation, they agreed to remove the late payment fee as a goodwill 
gesture. But they said that the interest would stand. Mrs C wasnt happy with that and raised 
a complaint with Creation on 13 January 2020, disputing the interest. She says that Creation 
told her during this call that interest would be put on hold while the complaint was 
investigated.
Mrs Cs balance at that time was made up of one transaction plus the interest on it. After her 
call with Creation, she paid off the transaction amount in full but not the interest, which she 
was disputing and had asked to be refunded.
When Mrs C received her February statement, she saw that further interest had been 
applied. She called Creation again and the call handler said that he would add this to the 
complaint. Creation responded to the complaint on 4 March 2020. They said that the interest 
had been applied correctly so they couldnt agree to remove it. Mrs C subsequently paid the 
interest, to stop any further charges accruing. But she wasnt happy with Creations 
response, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Creation had acted fairly by applying interest after Mrs C raised 
her complaint. He recommended that they refund the interest which was charged from 13 
January 2020 and pay Mrs C interest on this from the date she had paid it until the date they 
refund it. Creation didnt agree with our investigators conclusions and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say there is no evidence that they had 
agreed to put the interest on hold, so they dont think they have done anything wrong here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue here arises from the fact that Mrs C didnt receive her December statement. 
Thats why she didnt make the December payment, which led to interest being applied. Ive 
seen evidence from Creations system, and Im satisfied that they sent the statement out to 
Mrs C. So, although I dont doubt that it didnt reach Mrs C, I cant fairly conclude that this 
was Creations fault.
Under the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs account, Creation dont charge interest on 
Standard Purchases if Mrs C pays off the whole balance by the payment due date shown on 
her statement. Mrs C says that she always clears the balance in full and so usually benefits 
from the interest free period. Under the terms, if she doesnt clear the whole balance by the 
payment due date, Creation charge interest from the date of the transaction to the date Mrs 
C pays it off in full. As Mrs C didnt pay off the balance by the December payment date, 
Creation were entitled to apply interest.
I understand that the monthly statements serve as a prompt to Mrs C to pay, and Creation is 
obliged to send them to Mrs C for each month in which there is an outstanding balance on 
her account. Im satisfied that they did so here. But the charging of interest isnt dependent 
upon receipt of the statement by Mrs C. There is an onus on Mrs C to manage her account. 
She says that she has had the account for many years, so I think its reasonable to expect 
her to know roughly when the statement is produced each month. And, knowing that she had 
made a transaction early in the month, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs C to have known 
roughly when she would need to pay it off if she wanted to avoid incurring interest.
 
I realise that Mrs Cs circumstances at the time meant that her thoughts were taken up with 
other things, and I sympathise with that. Creation have waived the late payment fee, which I 
think is fair. But I find that they were entitled to charge interest on the transaction and it 
wasnt their fault that Mrs C didnt receive the statement. So I dont think they acted unfairly 
by charging the interest which was applied in the January statement.
I now need to consider what happened after that. After receiving her statement, Mrs C called 
Creation on 13 January 2020. She says they told her that interest would be put on hold while 
they investigated her complaint. Creation dont have a recording of this call. But they say 
they wouldnt have told Mrs C that.
Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in light 
of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Here, I find it more likely than not that Mrs C was told, or at least given the impression, that 
the interest on her account would be put on hold. This is what Mrs C says happened. 
Creation cant say with any certainty what happened, as they dont have the call recording. 
Ive listened to Mrs Cs subsequent call to Creation, after she received her February 
statement. Mrs C consistently says that the January interest is disputed, which is why she 
hasnt paid it. Shes clearly surprised that further interest was added in February and thats 
why she called Creation again. This indicates that she didnt expect further interest to be 
added, which is consistent with her having been told it wouldnt be. Creations agent doesnt 
offer any clarity either way.
Mrs Cs actions are also consistent with her having been told that interest would be put on 
hold. After the call on 13 January 2020, she cleared all of her balance except for the interest. 
This shows that she wanted to pay what she owed for the transaction, but disputed the 
interest which had been applied. When she received her statement the following month and 
saw that further interest had been applied, she contacted Creation again. When she 
received Creations final response letter, she paid off the interest in full. This shows that she 
had the means to pay the interest and it was important to her to stop it accruing.
 
I think it follows from this that, if Mrs C had known following the call to Creation in January 
that interest would keep accruing, she would have paid it off in full after the call, at the same 
time as paying off the transaction. The fact that she didnt do this suggests that she was told 
during the phone call that the interest would be put on hold. I also note that Creations letter to Mrs C dated 15 January 2020 acknowledges that she wants the interest removed. It says 
that a thorough investigation will be conducted but doesnt warn Mrs C that interest will 
continue to accrue in the meantime.
For these reasons, I dont think it was fair for Creation to charge Mrs C further interest after 
her call to them on 13 January 2020. I think the interest applied up to that point was fair.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I think Creation should refund the interest which was applied to 
Mrs Cs account from 13 January 2020. I think they should also pay Mrs C interest on that 
sum, so that she is not out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited should:
calculate the amount of interest which was applied to Mrs Cs account from 13 
January 2020 onwards (the Sum);
refund the Sum to Mrs C; and
pay to Mrs C simple interest on the Sum at the rate of 8% a year, from the date Mrs 
C paid it to the date it is refunded to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman