DRN-1916432
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Valour 
Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk. Mr A says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Savvy.
What happened
We now know that Mr A took out 2 instalment loans from Savvy between December 2017 
and August 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr As borrowing with Savvy, based on the 
information it provided to us:
Loan Amount Taken Out Repaid Instalments Monthly 
Repayments
1 £750 08/12/2017 30/08/2017 13 £115.14
2 £1,000 30/08/2018 15/11/2019 16 £123.72
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 2. Savvy doesnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr A could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Savvy should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr A could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Savvy told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr A. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with 
a view to seeing if there was a point at which Savvy should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Savvy most likely carried out appear to have been proportionate for loan 
number 1. I think these levels of checks, together with the income and expenditure details 
provided by Mr A himself, would have made this particular loan appear affordable for him. 
However, I think at the point of loan 2 things would have looked different and therefore 
required a more thorough and responsible approach. By loan 2, for example, Savvy already 
knew he was indebted elsewhere, to other short-term lenders. I accept theres a possibility 
that all the other short-term loans Mr A had in place at that time  we now know of at least 3 
- wouldnt have yet showed up on the credit check Savvy carried out, mainly because they 
had only been taken out by him fairly recently. But Ive listened to the sales call about loan 2 
and at least 1 such outstanding loan was discussed.
Ive also taken account that this was a high-interest loan designed mainly for the short-term. 
But Savvy extended the payments out to 16 months. No doubt this was to make the loan 
seem affordable, but it nevertheless caused Mr A to be indebted with very high charges for 
well over a year. In isolation, extending the term isnt necessarily wrong, but in my view it 
should have caused Savvy to carry out more comprehensive checks to ensure the loan was 
sustainable over that term. Further checks could have included, for example, verifying his 
disposable income and checking his bank statements. Had Savvy done this, it would have 
exposed the other lending and also that Mr A was regularly using on-line gambling sites to 
spend money. Accordingly, it would have shown he wasnt managing money very well and in 
a financially vulnerable situation. I dont think this would have made loan 2 look sustainable.
Theres no evidence Savvy altered its approach at the point of loan 2 and we know that 
people in these situations do often have difficulties in paying back loans and are caused 
hardship by the charges and fees involved. Im therefore upholding the complaint in relation 
to loan number 2.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 2;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on this loan 
from the date it was paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Mr As complaint. Valour Finance Limited should put 
things right for Mr A as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman