DRN-2186318
The complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a mortgage he had. 
Mr Ks complaint specifically refers to a PPI sale which he thought was in 2001. However, 
whilst such a policy was indeed sold then, it looks like Mr Ks mortgage relationship with 
Halifax goes back to 1993. And although the passage of time means that the documents we 
still have available are quite few in number, it seems he had PPI with his borrowing from the 
1990s too. 
Ive therefore considered three sales of mortgage PPI for Mr K  those in 1993, 1996 and 
2001. 
My experience is that the PPI would probably have been slightly different on each occasion 
to reflect the differing borrowing amounts.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr K with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think he was mis-sold PPI. Mr K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Im very sorry to 
disappoint him.
Ill begin by addressing 2001 sale because, as its the most recent one, we know more about 
this. For example, Halifax sold him a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) with a new 
mortgage he was taking out.  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes 
PPI together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The 
individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system and some paperwork which tends to 
show PPI was discussed during this sale. I see that on the mortgage application form, 
Halifax recommended this type of protection and Mr K signed a declaration saying he 
agreed to have it.
Ive also seen quite a few very similar sales to this one in the course of my work. My 
experience is that during the mortgage discussion, consumers like Mr K were provided with 
a summary of the different types / levels of protection which had been discussed - and 
which ones the consumer had then agreed to buy. Usually this was set out in a table form, 
with the relevant costs included, so it was clear enough whether the various 
recommendations had been accepted or declined. 
I note that as well as the PPI cover, Mr K took out a life policy and CIC during this process. 
So, I think theres a strong suggestion here that he wanted certain forms of protection with 
his new mortgage. He would have been able to see this was optional and I think the 
evidence shows he provided his consent.
It seems Mr K took out PPI with 1993 and 1996 mortgages too, although weve got far 
fewer details. Given these events are well over 20 years ago, its not unreasonable that 
Halifax doesnt have all the sales documentation anymore. Both policies pre-date the TMPP 
product and so were simple mortgage protection policies which covered Mr K against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. If hed lost his job or been unable to work, the policy 
would have helped to pay his mortgage.
Because theres no records to refer to, I can only say that, in my view, its more likely Mr K 
consented to these policies. Halifax agrees they were probably recommended to him, much 
the same as I explained above, and I think hed have had to have authorised the monthly 
premium to leave his bank account to pay for them. I also think the insurers would have 
sent him quite a few details about the policies and the rules, and if hed not wanted them, I 
think hed have questioned why they had been added to his respective mortgages. Ive 
seen no evidence he did this, and of course, we now know he expressly consented to the 
2001 policy which followed on from the 1993 and 1996 borrowing events. 
Taking all this into account, I think the evidence is more persuasive that Mr K probably 
agreed to these two earlier PPI policies too.
Mr Ks main points of complaints, however, refer mainly to the policies not being something 
he needed. He also implies he had savings available, although Ive seen no evidence of 
these. 
As I said, Halifax recommended the policies, so it needed to be sure the cover suitable for 
him. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may 
well already have had some reasonable sickness protection with his job. But Im afraid this 
doesnt mean the cover wasnt suitable for him. I think the mortgage(s) were significant and 
long-term financial commitments and secured against his home. So, the consequences of 
not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. On this basis, 
recommending he out to consider mortgage protection wasnt wrong.
Ive also thought about him potentially having savings available. Im sure he probably did 
have something in reserve, but Ive seen no evidence these amounts were such that it 
ought to affect my overall decision.
The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months 
(in the case of the 2001 cover) and for 12 months for the earlier two policies, if hed needed 
to claim. This was in addition to any other forms of protection he had.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mr K, but I think its 
more likely he would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of the cover he had agreed to in each case. I therefore think its more likely he had enough 
information on which to make an informed choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K. But to uphold his complaint Id need to think it was more likely 
he never gave his consent or that there were other flaws in the three sales Ive been 
explaining about. I think that scenario to be quite unlikely. And I simply dont have any 
supporting evidence that any of these PPI policies were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman