DRN-3463419
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about their online experience with National Savings and 
Investments (NSI).
What happened
Mr M held a Power of Attorney (POA) on his mothers (Mrs M) account. Mrs M had a 
savings account with NSI, and Mr M also had a savings account and premium savings 
bonds with NSI in his own name. While there are two account holders involved here, Mr M 
has brought the complaint to us in respect of both, and for simplicity I will refer to the 
complainant as Mr M.
On 30 November 2020. Mr M tried to log onto both his account and Mrs Ms savings 
account to make withdrawals and transfers from them. Mr M logged on at 10.36am and 
made a transfer of £6,099 to his premium savings bond account. At 11.36am, he closed 
the savings account with a transfer of £21.25 to his bank account. Mr M then logged onto 
Mrs Ms account and at 11.47am closed her account with a transfer of £20,047.67 to his 
bank account.
Mr M complained. He said the overall experience was very poor. Firstly, he had to wait for 
at least half an hour to log on before he could view the accounts. Then, he had to re-enter 
a nominated bank account again on both his and his mothers account  even though this 
shouldnt have been needed because theyd been entered when the accounts were 
opened. There werent clear instructions as to how to close the accounts  as the system 
asked that a balance of £1 was left in place. He had to call NSI to complete the transfer on 
Mrs Ms account  and the wait time to get through was half an hour. The online chat 
wasnt available. Overall, he felt that the NSI savings account were neither easy access 
nor no notice (as they were advertised) given the time he had to take to complete the 
transactions.
NSI said that a nominated bank account had to be added to the NSI account set up on its 
website, and this had been done when Mr M phoned NSI. It wasnt possible to clos
savings account by transfer into premium bonds, as premium bonds could only be 
purchased in whole pounds. They apologised for the wait times on the phone  this was 
due to increased customer calls, and the impact of the pandemic on staffing levels. The 
webchat service hadnt always been available  this wasnt related to the pandemic, and 
they were taking steps to put that right.
Mr M said that NSIs final response didnt answer his complaint. NSI then said that 
customers needed to enter the full balance to close an account and the interest to close 
could then be added. NSI said that from start to finish, Mr Ms online experience took an 
hour.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI acted reasonably. She said 
that Mr Ms online experience to close two accounts and make a transfer to his premium 
bonds account  lasted just over an hour. It was inconvenient for Mr M to have had to call 
NSI. It wasnt clear why Mr M had to re-enter the nominated account details again. It was 
inconvenient for him to have had to wait to get through to NSI on the phone  which was 
due to the pandemic. She felt that NSIs apology was sufficient as a response to Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. He also said that NSI didnt respond to him within the eight-week 
timeframe they were allowed and wanted this adding to his complaint. He repeated that he 
had to wait a long time on the phone, and the whole experience lasted all morning. And 
NSIs system had forgotten the nominated bank accounts  and there still wasnt an
explanation for this. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Online banking is an important part of our lives now  and we expect it to go well. When it 
doesnt, it can be frustrating  and so I can appreciate where Mr M is coming from. He says 
he felt cut off from his and his mothers savings by what happened. He doesnt think that 
an apology is good enough  and I agree with him. I say this because taken as a whole  
the various aspects of what happened added up to a lot of inconvenience.
For me, the key point is that he had to add a nominated account for both his account and 
that of Mrs M. He says he had done this at account opening and therefore it shouldnt 
have been needed again. NSI didnt answer why that was in their final responses to Mr M. 
Mr M had to ask NSI again, and so, separately, did we. And in all honesty  we didnt get 
a clear answer either. NSI say that this could be corrected by a few clicks but in Mr Ms 
case, he felt he had to call NSI to resolve it  which was a reasonable thing to do.
And when he called, he had at least a half hour wait to get though. I accept that NSI were 
affected by the pandemic and this caused the long wait time  but it was still inconvenient 
for Mr M.
And he couldnt use the webchat service either  NSI admit that this wasnt working well on 
a regular basis, so it appears it simply wasnt available when Mr M needed it. So  he 
couldnt get help that way. And so  he had to call NSI.
Mr M also says he had to wait half an hour in the queue to log in online. We dont have any 
information on the availability of NSIs website on the day and time in question  and 
without that, Im persuaded that Mr Ms version of what happened is correct and I accept 
he had to wait to log in.
Mr M also says that the website messages about how to close accounts werent clear  but 
NSI answered his points here  saying that he needed to enter the full balance and then 
account closure was possible. So, I think that was a reasonable response from NSI in that 
respect.
Mr M also added a complaint that NSI didnt provide their response within in the eight-week 
timescale which the Financial Conduct Authority has set down. I can see this was a 
frustration for Mr M, but in fact this isnt an aspect of his complaint we can look at. This is 
because this service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, 
look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a 
complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a 
businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. So  I must set that to one side 
here.
I can see that in conversation with NSI, Mr M asked for compensation of £100, but NSI 
declined to pay that. But looking at the cumulative effect of what happened and his overall 
experience  Im persuaded that a compensation payment of £100 for distress and inconvenience is warranted here. On balance, Mr W probably did have to wait half an hour 
to log on and had a further wait time of half an hour on the phone. And  he couldnt use 
the online chat to sort things out. And  its still not clear why he had to add a nominated 
bank account to the two savings bank profiles he was accessing.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr M (for Mrs M and Mr M) made the point that NSIs website was set up to maintain a 
balance of £1, thereby keeping the account open. But he accepted my findings.
NSI also accepted my findings.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and NSI accepted my findings, I wont be departing from the provisional 
decision. And so  NSI must do what I set out. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments must:
Pay Mrs M and Mr M compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman