DRN-4224095
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to remove his overdraft 
following a complaint of irresponsible lending being upheld. He says this led to him once 
again using his overdraft and getting into further debt when he was vulnerable. 
What happened
Mr H held a £4,700 overdraft facility with Lloyds. Mr H made a complaint against Lloyds 
about irresponsible overdraft lending in July 2022. Lloyds upheld Mr Hs complaint and 
refunded all overdraft interest, fees and charges applied to it from March 2017 which paid off 
Mr Hs overdraft. As part of the settlement of this complaint Lloyds told Mr H that his 
overdraft would be removed and it would add a marker to his account so no lending could be 
provided for at least 12 months.
Lloyds failed to remove Mr Hs overdraft and Mr H once again became overdrawn in August 
2022 and continued to use his overdraft until he reached his limit and raised a complaint with 
Lloyds about failing to remove it in February 2023.  
Lloyds agreed it had made an error in not removing the overdraft and:
Refunded all overdraft fees and charges applied since July 2022 amounting to 
£86.54.
Put a 30 day hold on the account to stop further charges and agreed a three month 
balance reduction plan interest and fee free.
Following this Lloyds will work with Mr H to come to a suitable arrangement to pay 
back the overdraft.
Lloyds paid £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr H wants Lloyds to 
wipe the balance of his overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint and thought that it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Lloyds to write-off the overdraft as Mr H used the funds and didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to request that Mr H pay back the overdraft. 
Mr H disagreed and has now asked that his complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, Lloyds has agreed it made an error by failing to remove Mr Hs overdraft which 
was found to be unaffordable and allowed him once again to use the overdraft funds. And 
Lloyds has already done what Id expect it to do to put things right  as outlined above. Mr H 
was refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. 
Furthermore, Lloyds has already introduced an interest and fee free three month overdraft 
reduction plan and wishes to work with Mr H to set up an affordable repayment plan for the 
remainder of the overdraft following this. And Lloyds has compensated Mr H £200 for its 
mistake. All of this is in-line with what Id recommend.
Mr H is unhappy with this, he wants his overdraft written off. He says having access to the 
overdraft enabled him to continue gambling. I thought about what Mr H has said and what 
hes said is a reason for upholding his complaint rather than a reason for departing from our 
normal approach to putting things right in cases such as his. I also note that despite knowing 
that Lloyds had made a mistake in not removing the overdraft in August 2022, Mr H waited 
until Lloyds started charging him again for the overdraft (around December 2022) rather than  
informing Lloyds about it in the first instance.
Instead, Mr H chose to make use of the funds. And although I accept some of the overdraft 
was used for gambling there were also other transactions on the account that werent 
gambling related such as payments for hotel bookings, pension and other leisure activities. 
And I can also see evidence on his account of lending with other providers. So I dont think 
Lloyds mistake has left Mr H with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with.
What Mr H is left with to repay are the funds which he used, so I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr H to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Hs unhappiness at 
having a balance to repay on his overdraft, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in 
itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not 
requiring it to do any more.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman