DRN-2892595
The complaint
Mr R complains that J & A Charles Ltd, trading as Two Six Financial (TSF), didnt submit his 
drawdown and pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) request in a timely way. And 
hes unhappy with the customer service its provided. 
What happened
As the background is well known to both parties, Ill only detail what I think are key events 
and points. 
On 16 March 2020, after initially discussing this in January 2020, Mr R told TSF he wanted 
to move his pension into drawdown and take a PCLS. The next morning at 9:33am TSF sent 
Mr R a valuation and by 10:41am hed confirmed he wanted to go ahead and provided his 
bank details to do so. TSF submitted the request electronically to Mr Rs provider at 12:23pm 
that day, when the price point cut off was 12:00 midday.
On 17 and 19 March 2020, unit price adjustments (UPA) were applied to Mr Rs funds, 
which TSF was made aware of. And, when Mr R asked for an update on 19 March 2020, it 
said his application had been made and was waiting to be authorised. On 1 April 2020, TSF 
asked Mr Rs provider to cancel his PCLS request, saying he no longer needed the funds, 
but the request was still authorised the next day. A few days later, TSF responded to queries 
and an update request from Mr R, also explaining his fund could be subject to market 
adjustments. And, on 8 April 2020, Mr Rs provider paid him the PCLS, which was £8,197 
less than he expected due to the impact of the UPAs. 
In mid-April 2020, Mr Rs provider offered to take back and reinvest his PCLS and put right 
any lost growth due to it failing to cancel his request. And TSF escalated concerns with it on 
Mr Rs behalf about why it took so long to process his PCLS request in the first place.
After further correspondence with his provider, Mr R complained to TSF that, in summary, it 
told him his request would be instantaneous when his providers said it has a service level 
agreement (SLA) of 10 working days to process these, during which his fund was vulnerable 
to UPAs. And that if hed known he wouldve made his request in January 2020 to allow 
enough time for this. Mr R also said TSF should have told him a UPA was applied on 
17 March 2020, so he could decide what to do before the next UPA was applied. He also 
said TSF tried to cancel the PCLS without his knowledge. And that it reassured him of 
positive progress with his provider when there wasnt any. 
In response, TSF said it didnt know about Mr Rs providers SLA as its internal. It also said 
the first UPA was announced in the late afternoon, after his request had been made. And 
that it tried to find out if these would still apply if the PCLS was reversed and that it thought 
this would give Mr R time to review his options. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it 
and said that as providers have different internal processes he wouldnt expect TSF to know 
these in detail. He said theres always risk involved when deciding to sell funds like Mr Rs, 
as these are priced on a forward-pricing basis. He also said TSF didnt have much time to 
meet the 12:00 midday price point cut off bearing in mind the timeline of events. And that, 
even if it had met this, its likely the UPAs would still have applied given his providers SLA. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
I told Mr R that I think its likely a system error, which TSF wasnt responsible for, meant his 
drawdown and PCLS request wasnt automatically processed when it should have been. 
I said that even if it wasnt for this error the first UPA is still likely to have impacted on the 
PCLS value he achieved though. This is because TSF submitted his request at 12:23pm on 
17 March 2020, which means he missed the 12:00 midday price point cut off and the UPA 
was announced later that afternoon. But Im not minded to ask TSF to do anything about 
this, for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
Mr R responded saying, in summary, that he didnt receive the support he expected of TSF. 
He said it should have been aware of his providers processes. And that his request could 
have been submitted in time so as not to fall foul of the UPA. He went on to say he wishes to 
draw a line under the matter though and that I should continue in the way Ive set out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking TSF to do anything. Ill explain why. 
Theres been much correspondence between Mr R and TSF about this matter. And, while 
Ive taken all the information into account, I dont intend to comment on all the points raised. 
Not least because I think one of Mr Rs main complaint points  that if TSF had told him 
about his providers SLA then he would have made his request earlier  falls away, given 
what we now know happened with his provider. 
Turning to Mr Rs comments about the time TSF took to submit his drawdown and PCLS 
request, Ive thought about whether it dealt with this in a reasonable amount of time in the 
circumstances. When doing so, Ive kept in mind that its said it knew about his providers 
12:00 midday price point cut off.
While I can see Mr R told TSF he wanted to take a PCLS on 16 March 2020, this appears to 
have been after 5:00pm and outside of office hours. So I think its reasonable that TSF sent 
him the valuation when it did the next morning. 
The evidence also suggests to me that TFS progressed Mr Rs request as quickly as it 
practically could, given I can see the adviser agreed he should take a lump sum without 
delay and that he asked for the valuation to be emailed to Mr R as soon as possible. I can 
also see that the adviser arranged for Mr Rs request to be processed while he was 
unavailable, so as not to delay it. In which case, I think TSF dealt with Mr Rs request in a 
reasonable timescale. And, even if I did think TSF could have dealt with aspects of Mr Rs 
request a bit quicker, I cant say with any certainty that it would have been made by the cut 
off given the short timescale involved.
Ive also taken into account that TSF doesnt seem to have made Mr R aware of the price 
point cut off. But I dont think this adversely impacted on the time it had to process his 
request on 17 March 2020, as I can see Mr R quickly responded to its emails about this. 
In summary, this means I cant fairly hold TSF responsible for any impact caused by Mr Rs 
request being submitted after the 12:00 midday price point cut off on 17 March 2020. I think its also worth noting that it isnt in dispute that Mr R was aware UPAs are a possibility with 
the type of funds he has. And that I dont think TSF could have anticipated these would be 
announced or that a system error would delay Mr Rs request being processed. 
Turning to the customer service TSF provided Mr R with, I think it missed a few opportunities 
to tell him the UPAs had been announced when responding to his emails asking for updates 
on his request. While it might not have wanted to worry Mr R as it didnt know if this 
impacted on his PCLS yet, I think its made him feel like he wasnt kept informed. 
That being said, I think TSF went out of its way with Mr Rs provider to try to find a way to 
resolve matters for him. For example, by trying to get to the bottom of the impact of the 
UPAs. I appreciate Mr R didnt ask TSF to see if his PCLS request could be cancelled, but 
I think it was trying to be helpful by establishing the options available to him. And then it 
proceeded to escalate Mr Rs complaint with his provider on his behalf, with his knowledge, 
also explaining to him what might happen if he did decide to reinstate his PCLS. In which 
case, while TSF could have done some things a bit differently, Im not asking it to do 
anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman