DRN-4065069
The complaint
Miss N complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled her claim on her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N reversed her car into a third partys parked motorcycle, which fell on its side. 
Miss N notified the police of the incident but not Aviva. A few weeks later, Aviva told Miss N 
the third partys insurer had notified it the third party was making a claim. Aviva accepted 
liability for the claim and settled it.
Miss N says Aviva settled the claim without properly investigating it. Among other things, 
Miss N says Aviva didnt ask her what happened and didnt request CCTV footage of the 
incident. She also says the damage the third party claimed for was exaggerated and Aviva 
didnt query it.
The investigator who looked at Miss Ns complaint didnt uphold it. In our investigators view, 
Aviva had acted fairly and in line with its rights as an insurer when making its decision on 
liability.
Miss N disagrees. She maintains Aviva shouldve contacted her to discuss the incident in a 
timely manner, requested CCTV footage and thoroughly investigated the condition of the 
motorcycle. So Miss Ns complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Ns car insurance policy has a term allowing Aviva to settle any claims it gets on the 
policy as it sees fit. This term is standard in car insurance policies. But our approach is that 
Aviva must act fairly and reasonably, based on the facts and evidence, in reaching its 
settlement decision. So thats what Ive looked at here. 
I can see the third partys insurer notified Aviva that Miss N reversed into its insureds parked 
and correctly positioned motorcycle causing damage. And I know Miss N accepts she 
reversed into the motorcycle (its the extent of the damage this caused to the motorcycle that 
she disputes). 
I can also see Aviva was given a report from a vehicle inspector who assessed the 
motorcycle. This recommended a total loss settlement of £1,800, which is the amount for 
which Aviva settled the claim. 
Miss N is unhappy Aviva settled the claim without asking her what happened. Aviva says it 
has an agreement with certain insurers where it will pay a claim on a without prejudice 
basis to save costs. If its then found that liability for the claim should be split between two 
parties or that the claim is a non-fault one, Aviva says it then claims these costs back. 
Miss N is also unhappy Aviva didnt get CCTV footage of the incident, which she says was 
available. Aviva says any footage is likely only to have shown the incident itself; that is,   
Miss N reversing into the motorcycle (which, as Ive said, Miss N doesnt dispute). Aviva 
says it doesnt think CCTV would be clear enough to show the damage (which, as it says, 
is the aspect of the claim Miss N does dispute).
Miss N also says the claim for the damage to the motorcycle has been exaggerated by the 
third party and that Aviva hasnt investigated this. Aviva says the report from the vehicle 
inspector is clear that the damage to the motorcycle is consistent with the circumstances 
(that is, Miss N reversing into it). Aviva says it cannot prove that the damage was not 
caused by the incident. 
On the facts and evidence I have, I think the approach Aviva has taken to settling the claim 
is fair. Since Miss N accepted shed reversed into the motorcycle, liability wasnt disputed 
and so Aviva didnt need to review its initial decision to settle on a without prejudice basis. 
I think its unlikely any CCTV footage Aviva got wouldve been of good enough quality to 
show in detail the damage to the motorcycle. And, in any case, although Miss N notified the 
police of the incident at the time, she didnt notify Aviva. So Aviva wouldnt have known there 
was CCTV footage that couldve been requested.
Finally, although Miss N says the third partys claim for the damage to the motorcycle is 
exaggerated, she hasnt supported her opinion with any expert evidence. The report Aviva 
was given is clear on the cause of the damage  a light collision to the rear that caused light 
to moderate damage when the motorcycle fell on its side. And the report assesses the total 
loss settlement as being £1,800, which is the amount for which Aviva settled the claim. In the 
absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary, I think Aviva has acted fairly in relying on 
the findings in the report to settle the claim.
Ive looked at all of Miss Ns other comments but they dont change my conclusions on this 
complaint. On the facts and evidence Ive seen, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with Miss Ns policy terms in settling this claim on Miss Ns car insurance policy 
as it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman