DRN-3929068
The complaint
Mr T complains that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt refund his purchase 
of some flights.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr T booked two flights for himself and another person, and paid around 
£272 for them with his American Express credit card. He booked the flights online, and in the 
process he tried to redeem a voucher worth around £175, which he wanted to put towards 
the cost of the flights, using his credit card to pay the balance. At first, he struggled to 
redeem the voucher, and so he failed to book the flights until the next day, when he was able 
to apply the voucher to his booking. By this time the price had increased slightly. But the 
value of the voucher was not deducted from the total price, and his card was still charged for 
the full amount.
Mr T asked the airline for a refund of the value of the voucher. He also asked for a refund of 
the difference between the price on the day he struggled to book and the price he had paid 
the next day. But the airline didnt respond to him. Getting nowhere with the airline, Mr T 
asked American Express for a refund instead. He provided a screenshot of a message on 
the airlines website saying that his voucher had already been redeemed, as evidence that 
he had been unable to use it.
American Express raised a chargeback, but the airline did not respond to it. American 
Express then told Mr T that the chargeback had been unsuccessful. Mr T challenges that 
decision on the ground that the result of a merchant not responding to a chargeback should 
be that the chargeback is upheld in favour of the cardholder, under American Expresss own 
rules.
American Express then considered Mr Ts claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. But it decided that there was not enough evidence of either a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation by the airline. It said that Mr T had bought two other flights on the same 
day with the same airline, and there was no evidence that the voucher had not been 
redeemed against that other booking instead.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr T brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that American Express had done 
as much as it could to get Mr Ts money back, and it did not need to do anything more.
Mr T did not accept that opinion. He provided receipts for both bookings, showing that in 
both cases the full price had been paid with a credit card. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
My role is not to decide whether the voucher was redeemed or lost, or whether Mr T 
deserves a refund or not. It is only to consider how American Express dealt with the 
chargeback dispute and the section 75 claim, and whether any errors by American Express 
may have affected the outcome of either.
I asked American Express about how it responds when a merchant fails to defend a 
chargeback dispute. It replied to say:
In the event that the merchant doesnt respond, AmEx will need to consider if the 
dispute evidence submitted by the cardmember is enough evidence to uphold their 
claim. AmEx will not automatically uphold a dispute in the customers favour on the basis 
the merchant have not responded.
That seems reasonable to me, and so I agree that the result of the airlines silence should 
not be that the chargeback claim automatically succeeds. Rather, American Express was 
entitled to resolve the chargeback based on the adequacy of the evidence which had been 
supplied to it at the time by Mr T. So I will consider that and how American Express dealt 
with the section 75 claim together.
It is not for me to substitute my own view of the evidence for American Expresss, but only to 
consider whether the decision American Express made was one which was open to it on the 
evidence it had.
I have seen the receipts which Mr T provided to American Express. As Ive said, these each 
show that the method of payment used was his credit card. However, it isnt clear whether  
when a voucher is used successfully  the receipts would show if a voucher had been used 
in part payment, or if using a voucher just reduces the total price, which is then paid in full 
with a credit card, without the voucher showing up in the receipt. I have not seen evidence of 
the advertised price for the relevant flights, to compare with what Mr T was charged for 
them.
But a bigger difficulty in this case is that the airline sent Mr T an email which says his 
voucher was used successfully, on the same date he booked the flights, for $240 (equivalent 
to £175, the value of the voucher). Mr T says this proves that the voucher was lost to him or 
wasted, but I think that American Express could reasonably take the alternative view that this 
email is evidence that he did get the benefit of the voucher. The same difficulty applies to the 
screenshot of the message on the website saying the voucher had been redeemed. Both 
pieces of evidence are capable of meaning that Mr Ts voucher was redeemed against the 
value of his flights.
For all of these reasons, I think that American Express was entitled to take the view that the 
evidence provided to it was not convincing enough for it to refund Mr T the value of the 
voucher.
Finally, I do not think that the airline was responsible for the slight price increase over the 
two days that Mr T was trying to book his flights. The evidence shows that he failed to 
redeem the voucher on his first attempt because when he entered the vouchers number on 
the website, he missed a digit, so the number he entered wasnt recognised. So American 
Express is not liable for that either.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman