DRN-2833897
The complaint
Mr L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited havent refunded part of his car 
insurance premium as he didnt use his car as much, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr L took out car insurance which included business use with Advantage in January 2020. A 
few days after his policy ended in January 2021, he contacted Advantage and asked it to 
refund some of his premium, as he hadnt used his car for any business miles. Advantage 
said as his policy had ended it couldnt make any changes to it. It also said that it wouldnt 
provide a retrospective refund just because Mr L hadnt used his car as he expected. 
Because of this Mr L complained. 
Advantage investigated Mr Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it was unable to back 
date any changes and as the policy had lapsed it couldnt make any changes going forward. 
Advantage also said it wasnt providing any refunds because Mr Ls car had been used less. 
But Advantage did say it had written out to policy holders during the year to let them know 
they could make amendments to their mileage or usage, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And as it hadnt heard from Mr L until after his policy ended it wouldnt offer a refund, but did 
offer Mr L £20 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr L didnt agree and brought his complaint here, he referred to guidance which had been 
issued about what insurers could do to support customers during the pandemic.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that Mr Ls policy had lapsed by the time he contacted Advantage, so didnt think it 
had done anything wrong by not offering a retrospective refund. She also found the guidance 
Mr L had relied upon related to existing policies so didnt think it affected him. Mr L 
disagreed. 
As Mr L didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L took out his policy, he told Advantage what he would use his car for and the 
estimated annual mileage. Advantage then based its premium on this information, which Mr 
L accepted. 
I understand at the time the policy started Mr L and Advantage wouldnt have been able to 
predict the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Im not persuaded that its fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to offer a retrospective refund, after Mr Ls policy has ended. 
I say this because while he hasnt done any business mileage during the year, this isnt 
something Advantage would have known about. Advantage also said it wrote to its 
customers to let them know if they had been affected by the pandemic and needed to amend 
their mileage or usage to contact them. 
Ive also considered the guidance issued to insurers on how to support their customers 
during the pandemic. But Im not persuaded it means Advantage has done anything wrong. 
This is because Advantage didnt know about Mr Ls changes until after his policy ended, 
and cover remained in place for other risks, not just business mileage, such as personal use, 
fire and theft. So, Im not persuaded it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if I 
directed Advantage to refund some of a premium because a policyholder hasnt needed all 
the cover the policy provided. 
I can also see Advantage has offered a £20 goodwill gesture to Mr L, given the 
circumstances Im satisfied its fair and reasonable. This is because Advantage has provided 
the cover it agreed to when the policy was taken out and wasnt notified of any changes until 
after it lapsed. It follows that Im therefore not going to tell Advantage to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im satisfied £20 is a fair and reasonable offer in the 
circumstances. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay this to Mr L if it hasnt 
already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman