DRN-2319550
The complaint
Mr A complains about the length of time its taking for MCE Insurance Company Limited to 
deal with a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident with another car in November 2018, but the claim isnt yet 
settled. Hes unhappy with the length of time its taking MCE to establish liability and to settle 
the claim. Hes also unhappy that hes had to chase MCE for updates and all he receives are 
generic letters. MCE said it would only contact Mr A when it had an update for him. But it 
offered him £50 compensation for not responding to two of his requests for an update. Mr A 
said he didnt receive this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
MCE was pursuing the claim in a reasonable way and hadnt caused any avoidable delays in 
settling it. But she thought it should have been more proactive in keeping Mr A informed. 
She thought it should offer him £150 in total compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by its lack of communication. 
MCE replied that there were only two occasions when Mr A didnt receive a requested 
update. It said there hadnt been any meaningful changes in the claim to update him with. It 
thought its offer of £50 compensation was reasonable. MCE asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr A feels frustrated with the length of time its taking MCE to settle the 
claim. He complained to it sixteen months after the accident. And now another year has 
passed and, as far as I can see, the claim is yet to be settled. 
Ive reviewed MCEs file and I can see that it has been active in pursuing liability for the 
claim with the other insurer. I cant see that its caused any avoidable delays in the claim. 
Where the other insurer hasnt responded to its requests for further information or evidence, 
I think it has chased this up promptly. 
So, although I can understand Mr As frustration, I cant say that MCE has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in not settling his claim sooner. I think it has explained to Mr A that these 
matters, where its one drivers word against anothers, can take some time to resolve. 
But I think MCE could have done more to keep Mr A updated about its progress with the 
claim. Mr A provided his version of events in January 2019. There was then no further 
contact from MCE until Mr A asked for an update in July 2019. A generic letter was provided. 
But I dont think this gave Mr A confidence that the claim was being actively pursued. 
Mr A asked for an update in October 2019 and whether the claim would be fault or non-fault. 
Again a generic letter was sent in response and his question wasnt answered. No response 
was received from MCE when Mr A asked for an update in December 2019. In March 2020, 
he received another generic letter. 
I understand that at times MCE was waiting for responses from the other insurer and didnt 
have anything definite to tell Mr A. But I think MCE could have done more to manage Mr As 
expectations by telling him what it was doing on his behalf to settle the claim on the best 
possible terms. Mr A was having to declare the open claim at his renewals, and I think this 
uncertainty was stressful for him. 
MCE offered Mr A £50 compensation for its failure to respond to his requests. But I think this 
doesnt go far enough in the circumstances, especially given the length of time its taking to 
resolve the claim and the lack of updates in this time. Mr A has explained that hes had to 
wait on hold for long periods to get through to MCE. I also note that MCE didnt pay Mr A the 
£50 compensation as it didnt have his bank details. But MCE didnt follow this up.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that MCE should pay Mr A £150 in total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its lack of updates and arrange to contact him every 
three to four months about the progress of the claim. I think thats a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I 
also think MCE should be more proactive in keeping Mr A updated about the progress of the 
claim. And, given the length of time this is taking, I think a call every four months would be 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require MCE Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman