DRN-2809423
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) dealt 
with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C has an interest only mortgage with Birmingham Midshires, in joint names with his ex-
wife. 
Mr C had previously brought a complaint to our service that Birmingham Midshires didnt 
remove his ex-wife from the mortgage account. Mr C remains unhappy about this. Our 
investigator told Mr C that we cant look into this issue again. 
Birmingham Midshires wrote to Mr C saying it had made a business decision to refund some 
fees. Mr C said the fees hadnt been applied appropriately and wanted a breakdown of how 
the refund was calculated. 
Mr C said it was the application of these fees that led to Birmingham Midshires obtaining a 
court order for possession in 2016. Mr C has applied to court for this to be set aside. Our 
investigator told Mr C that as this matter is the subject of court proceedings, we cant look 
into this part of his complaint.
Mr C agreed that his complaint would proceed on the basis we would only look into his 
complaint about the fees applied to his account.
Having looked into Mr Cs concerns about the fees applied to his account, our investigator 
said theyd been applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr C didnt agree with this. He said he hadnt been given a breakdown of how the fees 
refund had been calculated. He says Birmingham Midshires withheld facts to conceal its own 
financial irregularities and provided his own statements of facts and calculations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this account remains in joint names, Mr C has brought this complaint and, for 
reasons of simplicity, Ill refer only to Mr C and to the joint account as Mr Cs account.
Birmingham Midshires says it was asked by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or 
FCA) to review fees applied in certain specific circumstances. It decided to refund these fees 
to all customers in arrears between 2009 and 2016, rather than review each account. This 
meant that fees were refunded to accounts where the circumstances identified by the 
regulator didnt apply.
Birmingham Midshires refunded arrears fees and litigation fees charged to Mr Cs account 
between 2009 and 2016, with interest. When it wrote to Mr C about this, Birmingham 
Midshires set out what it had taken into account when calculating the amount of the refund, 
but not the calculation itself.
Birmingham Midshires says these fees were applied correctly to Mr Cs account in 
accordance with the terms and conditions at the time. Mr C will have been sent letters and 
statements setting out the fees applied to his account, and which Birmingham Midshires has 
now refunded.
I think Birmingham Midshires was entitled, under the terms of the account, to apply these 
fees and I dont think it was unfair in doing so. If Id found otherwise I could ask it to put 
matters right. Most likely Id require it to refund the fees and related interest. It has already 
done this. I dont think it needs to do more.
Mr C says the fees resulted in losses  in particular that the addition of these fees to his 
account led to possession proceedings, and to him having to pay an amount to reduce the 
arrears. 
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We dont have power to set aside a court 
judgement. A court issued an order for possession in 2016, saying this wasnt to be enforced 
so long as Mr C made the payments set out in the order. It was for the court to satisfy itself 
about the evidence presented to it and decide whether to issue the order. 
Mr C has started proceedings to set aside the court order for possession, on the basis the 
evidence presented to the court in 2016 was incorrect. It will be for the court to make a 
decision about this. I dont make any findings here about the evidence presented to the court 
in 2016 or the basis on which the court issued the order for possession.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman