DRN-4369955
The complaint
Mr J complains about a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney 
Limited. The car has experienced mechanical issues that resulted in Mr J being unable to 
use the car. Mr J would like to end his motor finance agreement with AutoMoney.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr J acquired a used car. The car cost just under £20,000 and the 
majority of the cost was funded through a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney. Within 
a few weeks of having the car it broke down. It was initially inspected by a local garage, and 
was then returned to the original dealership who sold the car to Mr J. 
Mr J complained to AutoMoney about the car breaking down, but it rejected his complaint 
and referred to what it had been told by the supplying dealership. This was that the car had 
been miss fuelled, petrol had been mistakenly put into the car instead of the required diesel. 
It did not therefore consider the cars failure was a result of any underlying issues, but was 
however caused by incorrect fuel being added to the car. A subsequent inspection, arranged 
by AutoMoney, later concluded that miss fuelling was the likely cause of the current issues 
with the car. 
Mr J strongly disputes putting the wrong fuel into the car and has provided evidence which 
he says shows he correctly put diesel into the car several times since he acquired it. Mr J 
has suggested the supplying dealership put the incorrect fuel into the car to disguise the 
underlying problems that were then when the car was supplied to him. 
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators and they explained why they 
didnt consider the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they were more persuaded that 
the car had been miss fuelled and AutoMoney was not therefore liable for the resulting cost 
of repairs. 
Mr J asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, as he is entitled to do, and 
the complaint has now been referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all that the parties have said and provided, Im aware that my decision 
here will come as further disappointment to Mr J, as I have come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, for what are broadly the same reasons. That is, I have not 
upheld Mr Js complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may 
merit. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those 
crucial aspects which impact my decision. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information I have is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
I should also add that our service is not a court and unlike a court I dont have the power to 
compel the parties involved in this complaint directly, or as a third party, to provide me with 
evidence. Nor do I have the power to cross-examine the parties here.  
As the agreement entered into by Mr J is a regulated consumer credit agreement, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. AutoMoney is the supplier of the goods, 
i.e. the car, under this type of finance agreement and is responsible for the quality of the car 
when it was supplied to Mr J. If it was found that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr J, AutoMoney could be liable and responsible for the cost of 
repairs. It may alternatively be required to take back the car, cancel the finance agreement 
and refund money to Mr J. 
AutoMoney is not however responsible for the general upkeep and servicing of the car, nor 
is it responsible for repairs required if the car has not been maintained correctly, or had the 
correct fuel added to it while in Mr Js possession.
There is no dispute there is something wrong with the car and that it needs work to get it 
working properly again. Mr J believes there was something wrong with the car shortly after 
he acquired it that led to it breaking down. AutoMoney however considers the problems have 
been caused by Mr J miss fuelling the car. 
The car was a used car when supplied to Mr J and had travelled around 27,000 miles when 
Mr J got it. The car broke down a few weeks later, by which time I understand the car had 
then travelled 27,498, so less than 500 miles. 
I accept it is possible the car has suffered a mechanical or electrical failure that has resulted 
in the breakdown. Even new cars suffer problems shortly after supply and Mr Js car could 
have experienced a breakdown. There is however no further evidence that supports this or 
that indicates what that electrical or mechanical failure actually is. 
Mr J has suggested the car could have been miss fuelled before it was supplied to him, but I 
consider it extremely unlikely this is the case. Had it had the wrong fuel in it when supplied I 
consider unlikely Mr J would have been able to drive the car the distance he had before it 
failed. I note that before the car broke down Mr J referred to not feeling great with the car 
and its engine and that there was a flashing red light on the dashboard. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest this is related to the car being miss fuelled before Mr J took delivery of 
the car. 
AutoMoney believes the car was miss fuelled by Mr J and I fully accept that Mr J disputes he 
has miss fuelled the car. The copies of the fuel garage receipts showing diesel was 
purchased dont unfortunately show that it was actually Mr J who bought the diesel, or that it 
was bought for the car here. It is possible of course that these do show the fuel added to the 
car but there was however a separate occasion where petrol was mistakenly bought and 
added to the car. 
When the car broke down initially Mr J arranged for the car to be taken to a local garage. 
That garage concluded that further investigation was required to determine the cause of the 
problem with the car and suggested the car should be investigated by a manufacturer associated garage. The local garage subsequently clarified its initial statements and that the 
inspection it carried out did not indicate a miss fuel or fuelling issue. In a telephone call with 
our service, the local garage indicated that it did not check the fuel at the time but despite 
this it thought it unlikely the car had been miss fuelled. 
The supplying garage was the one that originally referred to the car being miss fuelled and I 
can appreciate Mr Js concerns about the impartiality of this garage, as it was the one that 
supplied the car. But I note the garage carried out initial work on the car, replacing items and 
incurring costs, when attempting to identify and rectify the issue. I think it unlikely it would 
have done this if it was intending to put petrol into the car to avoid any responsibility for the 
cars failure  which is what Mr J has suggested. There seems to be no dispute that the car 
will now require some considerable repairs and if the supplying garage did miss fuel the car 
it was doing so at great risk. There was absolutely no certainty that Mr Js complaint here 
would be upheld and by miss fuelling the car greater damage and therefore costs may have 
been caused. I do not consider this is something the garage would have likely done just to 
avoid any potential responsibility for any genuine repairs it may have been liable for. 
In addition to the supplying dealer and the local garage Mr J took the car to, AutoMoney 
arranged for an independent inspection to take place. The company appointed to inspect the 
car is a well-known and respect vehicle inspection company and I have no reason to doubt 
the findings reached in its report. I accept it would have been paid by AutoMoney to produce 
the report, but that does not in my view indicate the report will as a result of this reach a 
conclusion in favour of AutoMoney.
The inspectors conclusions are clear that the car has likely been miss fuelled. Petrol was 
identified in the fuel. Although it does suggest a formal fuel analysis is done, it notes the 
evidence available at the time of inspection that the vehicle does appear to have been mis-
fuelled with petrol fuel. As already referred to above, I consider it unlikely that the supplying 
dealership miss fuelled the car after it was returned and after it had already broken down. 
As I have referred to above, AutoMoney is responsible for the quality of the car when it was 
supplied to Mr J. Having carefully considered everything said and provided in this case, I 
have not seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate the car was defective when it was 
originally supplied to Mr J. There is insufficient evidence in my view to indicate there was an 
underlying problem or lack of durability with the car or its components. The evidence 
supports the view that it was a post-sale event relating to the wrong fuel being added that is 
what is likely to have caused the cars failure. And it is for these reasons that I do not 
consider there is sufficient evidence in this complaint for me to conclude AutoMoney is 
responsible for the problems that Mr J has experienced with the car. 
As AutoMoney is not responsible, there are no grounds for me to instruct AutoMoney to help 
pay for the costs of the repairs or compensate Mr J for the time he has been without the car. 
I fully appreciate the position Mr J will be in and that he will be facing potentially significant 
repair costs. But while I do sympathise with Mr J, I cannot however uphold the complaint 
because of this. 
This final decision represents the last stage in our complaint process and I accept that Mr J 
will likely remain unhappy with the conclusions I have reached here. But I would remind Mr J 
that should he wish to continue his dispute with AutoMoney, he will need to do so through 
alternative means, such as the courts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against AutoMoney Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman