DRN-1511431
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Miss M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
This is because Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss M but, based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I dont think it was suitable; nor do I think it likely she was 
given enough information about the restrictions in the policy before she agreed to take it.  
I say this because Miss M suffered from a chronic illness. She needed to carry two types of 
medication with her and have regular check ups. I think that, if shed known about the 
restrictions on claiming for already-existing illnesses, shed not have thought the PPI 
worthwhile  she would have thought there was a high chance she would have to claim as a 
result of the illness and that such a claim would probably not be paid. I dont think shed have 
taken out the policy if shed been properly advised and informed.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Miss M would have owed when 
she closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed 
when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. Barclays Bank UK PLC should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Miss M would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Miss M would have owed each 
month without PPI  Miss M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should also pay simple interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should 
carry on paying interest until the point when Miss M wouldve owed Barclays Bank 
UK PLC something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
D. Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Miss M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss M compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman