DRN-3253774
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly pursued him for the debt on a mortgage 
he had been removed from in 2004.
What happened
In 2003, Mr S took out a mortgage with his now ex-partner with Santander (formerly Abbey 
National). In 2004, when they split up, he said they agreed that Mr S would be removed from 
the mortgage. Mr S said that he completed paperwork to transfer his equity to his ex-partner 
and moved out of the property.
In November 2019, a debt recovery agent contacted Mr S on behalf of Santander. The 
property had been sold by Santander following repossession in February 2019, leaving a 
shortfall to be repaid  and the agent was seeking repayment of the shortfall from Mr S.
Mr S complains that:
He believed he had been removed from the mortgage.
He received no communication from Santander from 2004 until 2019  and he doesnt 
consider that Santander had taken reasonable steps to trace or contact him.
If Santander had contacted him, he would have taken steps to make sure that any 
mortgage arrears were cleared and that the property was sold on the market.
His credit file did not have any adverse information. He has obtained mortgages, loans 
and credit cards and has consistently been on the electoral roll.
The phone number Santander held on file was his mothers  and it didnt have a 
voicemail facility. But Santanders records state that it left a voicemail message for him 
in 2017. While he had the same mobile phone number from 2002 until 2020, Santander 
has no evidence it held that phone number for him.
Santander incorrectly recorded that he had mental health problems.
I issued a provisional decision. Subject to any further submissions, I made the following 
findings (and which form part of this decision):
Liability
When Mr S took out the mortgage he agreed to be jointly and severally liable for the full 
amount of the mortgage debt. That meant that Santander could recover the debt from both 
the account holders jointly or individually. Mr S may have come to a different arrangement 
with the other borrower in relation to who owns what share of the property (known as tenants 
in common). But that does not change Mr Ss liability to Santander.
The only way that Mr S would not remain liable for the mortgage he took out was if he had 
formally been removed from the mortgage. Im afraid that the evidence we have does not 
support that this happened. I say this as there is no record of a transfer of equity being 
approved on Santanders system and other than his belief that such a request was 
approved, he does not have any paperwork or other evidence to support this.
Further, Santander has shown that the mortgage was in arrears throughout 2004 and for 
almost all of the term since inception. In my experience it would be unusual for a lender to 
agree that one borrower of a joint mortgage could be removed in those circumstances.
Looking at the evidence we have, I consider it less likely, on balance of probabilities, that Mr 
S was removed from the mortgage. It follows that he remains liable for the remaining 
shortfall debt.
Address
Mr S said that in early 2004 he told a branch of Santander to change his address back to his 
parents address.
Santanders records show that the address it held for Mr S was the property from 2003 until 
12 January 2007. From that date until 19 November 2019, it had its own address entered.
Other than what Mr S has told us, there is no evidence to support that he made a request for 
his address to be changed in 2004. Based on the evidence I have I cant see there has been 
a mistake by Santander in not updating the address.
It seems likely that Santander knew that Mr S wasnt living at the property in 2007 because it 
updated its system to reflect that it was its own address.
Phone numbers
The application details provided by both Mr S and Santander show a phone number. He said 
that it is his mothers home phone number and that hasnt changed since then. Santanders 
records only show phone numbers added in 2019.
There is a clear discrepancy in Santanders records. They shows that it attempted to contact 
Mr S using his mothers phone number in 2018. Yet its records do not show that number 
recorded as Mr Ss number at that time. Santander has not provided an explanation for this.
I am satisfied that Santander held Mr Ss mothers phone number during the time in 
question. Whether that was because it found the original application or it held it on its system 
is not clear.
Contact
In September 2018, Santander made an unsuccessful attempt to phone Mr Ss mothers 
phone.
In July 2018, Santander wrote to Mr S at the property address
Santander said it was in contact with Mr Ss ex-partner throughout the time in question. It 
hasnt provided evidence of this  and it should have done so. It is wrong to say it needs the 
other partys consent to provide that information to us. But I accept that in view of the arrears 
on the account it is likely that it would have taken repossession action sooner had it received 
no contact from either party. And the information submitted shows that arrangements had 
been reached.I cant see that there has been any mistake by Santander here. It knew that Mr S didnt live 
in the property in 2007. It isnt unusual for relationships to break down and for one person to 
leave a property that is jointly owned. That does not mean that there is any responsibility for 
the lender to take steps to trace and contact the borrower who has left. Particularly where 
the remaining borrower is engaging with the lender.
I appreciate that Mr S believed that he had been removed from the mortgage. But Ive found 
it is less likely that happened and as such he remained liable for the mortgage. And it was 
for him to update Santander with his contact details.
I note that Mr Ss credit file does not include any details of the Santander mortgage. It
appears that is because the property address is not linked to his credit file. Santander has
provided evidence that it has submitted information to credit reference agencies. It is not for
Santander to make sure that all Mr Ss previous addresses are linked on his credit file.
Personal information
We have notes from Santanders solicitors, dated 7 November 2018, which state
Vulnerability schizoaffective relates to Mr S who is no longer in property.
Mr S said that information is also held by Santander  but I havent seen any evidence of
that. But the solicitors were acting for Santander in this matter. So Santander is responsible 
if they solicitors havent treated Mr S fairly in respect of the repossession and recovery of the
shortfall debt.
Good practice would require Santander or its agents to get Mr Ss consent before recording
sensitive medical information on its systems. It isnt in dispute that it didnt do so here. And
Mr S disputes that the information is accurate. So I dont consider it was fair for Santander
and its solicitors to record this information about Mr S.
In saying that, there is no evidence that supports that Santander adjusted its recovery action
in view of the incorrect information recorded. But I think this will have added to the distress
and inconvenience Mr S suffered. Santander should pay him £300 to reflect that and arrange
for the comments to be removed from both it and its solicitors records.
I dont doubt the huge impact this matter will have had on Mr S. I can see how he might have
thought that hed have nothing further to do with the mortgage  he hadnt heard anything
about it for 15 years or so. But it doesnt follow that Santander has acted unfairly or
unreasonably. For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont consider Santander has acted
unfairly here  other than in recording incorrect information about Mr S.
Santander said it had nothing further to add. Mr S said he was very disappointed with the 
outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided a substantive response to my provisional decision, I have 
reached the same decision I did in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons as 
set out above. I cant see that Santander has made an error in pursuing Mr S for the shortfall 
on the mortgage.
Santander should pay Mr S for any distress and inconvenience caused by Santander and/or its solicitors recording incorrect information about him on its systems.
I understand Mr Ss disappointment. But as I cant see that Santander has made an error in 
respect of his liability for the shortfall amount, I cant tell it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr S £300 for any distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman