DRN-3551275
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Vauxhall Finance Plc trading as 
G.M.A.C. (GMAC) following the return of his car.
What happened
agreement with GMAC. The cash price of the vehicle was £8,723 and the agreement was for 
£9,521 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of £223.77, and a final payment of 
£223.97. The agreement also included two value added products (VAPs)  GAP insurance 
of £499 and a warranty of £299. At the time, the car was just over three years old and had 
done 35,137 miles. 
Mr F voluntarily terminated the agreement in 2018. The car was collected and inspected for 
damage by the collection agent. Following this, GMAC charged Mr F £377 for damage to the 
car that fell outside of reasonable wear and tear and for an incomplete service history. 
GMAC also charged Mr F an additional £530.41 for the unpaid amount for the VAPs, which 
included interest calculated over the full term of the agreement.
Mr F complained to GMAC about these charges. GMAC waived the charge for the missing 
service history, bringing the damages charge down to £207. But they thought the remaining 
charges were fair. Mr F wasnt happy with GMACs response, and he brought his complaint 
to us for investigation. 
Our investigator said that, under the agreement Mr F signed, GMAC are entitled to charge 
for damage to the car that falls outside of industry guidance for fair wear and tear.
Mr F had said that the damage was present to the car when it was supplied to him, but the 
investigator had seen no evidence to support this. As, he thought that all this damage fell 
outside of industry guidance, he said it was fair for GMAC to charge for this. 
With regards to the VAPs payment, the investigator explained why he thought this was a 
multiple agreement  the VAPs were financed separately to the car itself. And, because of 
this, GMAC were able to treat the VAPs payment separate to the voluntary termination (VT). 
However, the investigator didnt think this was made clear in the agreement. 
In addition to this, the only reference to the cost of the VAPs being excluded from the overall 
cost of the agreement was under the heading Repossession: Your Rights. So, the 
investigator didnt think Mr F wouldve referred to this section when deciding whether to VT 
the agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), under 
sections 2.3.2 and 4.2.5, explains that a customer must be given an adequate explanation of 
the key features of any regulated credit agreement. Which could allow customers to be able 
to make an informed choice. And Principle 7 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses explains 
that a firm must communicate information in a way thats clear, fair, and not misleading.
The investigator didnt think that the agreement Mr F signed was sufficiently clear about how 
the VAPs were being financed separately to the car itself, and how this would affect Mr F 
upon VT. Because of this, the investigator initially thought that GMAC should consider the 
VAPs and the car together when considering VT, and that Mr Fs liability should be no more 
than 50% of the total amount financed for both of these elements.
GMAC didnt agree with the investigators view. While they agreed the car and VAPs were 
financed separately, the car on a conditional sale agreement and the VAPs on a fixed sum 
loan agreement; they said theyd followed the prescribed wording of this type of mixed 
agreement, and were unable to change this. And they thought it was clear from reading the 
agreement as a whole, and not just relying on specific clauses, that the cost of the VAPs 
was excluded from VT and would need to be paid for separately.
After considering the comments from GMAC, the investigator still considered that the 
agreement wasnt sufficiently clear. And GMAC shouldve done more to explain how the 
agreement was structured, and what would happen on VT. But hed changed his view as to 
what GMAC should do to put things right.
The investigator said that the car and VAPs should be treated separately, and Mr Fs liability 
for the VT should be no more than £6,164.50  the amount specified in the termination rights 
notice in the agreement. However, he didnt think Mr F wouldve expected to have to pay the 
whole amount of the VAPs and the full interest charged over the full term of the agreement if 
it was terminated early. And, as Mr F terminated the agreement 31 months into the 60-month 
agreement, his liability for the VAPs should be limited to 31/60 of the total cost of the VAPs.
So, if Mr F has already paid at least £6,731.49 to GMAC, then he shouldnt be liable for any 
further charges for the VAPs. And, if he hasnt yet paid this amount, then GMAC should 
make arrangement for him to pay this. This is in addition to the damage charges, which were 
fairly applied.
GMAC still didnt agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
For clarity, I think it would be beneficial for me to state what aspects of this matter arent 
disputed:
Neither Mr F nor GMAC have challenged the investigators view that the £207 
damage charges were fair. As such, this element of the complaint is no longer in 
dispute.The investigator had, for the reasons hed given, assumed the agreement to be a 
multiple agreement. And GMAC have confirmed that this was their intention. So, its 
accepted that the agreement was a multiple agreement as defined by Section 18 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And GMAC used the prescribed wording they were 
required to within the termination and repossession sections this agreement; and 
using a heading of Conditional Sale Agreement was correct for this type of multiple 
agreement.
As such, my decision wont concentrate on these, and will instead focus on the elements 
where there is still no agreement.
CONC 4.2.5 says that:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation 
(2) The matters referred to in (1) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically; and where the 
amount can be determined; in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which 
would have significant adverse effect on the customer in a way in which 
the customer is unlikely to forsee.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr F signed on 8 August 2015. Under Section 6 
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS the agreement says you have a right to end this 
agreement. To do so you should write to the person you make your payments to. They will 
then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
agreement, that is £6,146.50. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
interest and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more. 
This is the prescribed wording that GMAC have said they were legally obliged to state.
Section 5 of the agreement confirms the Total Amount Payable to be £13,426.40. This 
includes the cost of the VAPs. And half of this amount is £6,713.20, and not the £6,146.50 
specified in Section 6. So, the figure quoted in Section 6 relates to the total amount payable, 
less the cost of the VAPs. But this isnt clearly stated within Section 6.
Section 7 of the agreement REPOSSESSION: YOUR RIGHTS says if you do not keep to 
your side of the agreement but you have paid at least one third of the total amount payable 
under this agreement, that is £4,109.67, the creditor may not take back the goods against 
your wishes unless he gets a court order. (In Scotland he may need to get a court order at 
any time.) If he does take the goods without your consent or a court order, you have the right 
to get back any money that you have paid under this agreement. This is also the prescribed 
wording that GMAC were legally obliged to state.
However, the agreement went on to explain that the Termination and Repossession rights 
set out on the notices above only apply to that part of this Agreement which relates to the 
Vehicle. The figures shown in the notices above do not include any amounts payable with 
respect to any GAP insurance or Warranty you have purchased. This is stated in addition to 
the prescribed wording, and GMAC have chosen to combine this important piece of 
information relating to Sections 6 and 7 and refer to it in Section 7 only.While Mr F has signed to say he read and accepted the agreement, this was in 2015. And he 
didnt look to VT the agreement until almost three-years later. As such, I think its reasonable 
that Mr F wouldve only referred to the termination part of the agreement at this point and 
wouldnt have re-read the entire agreement. Given the lack of any explanation as to the how 
the VAPs would be treated in Section 6 of the agreement, this would lead Mr F to believe 
this his liability was less than it actually was. This situation couldve been avoided had 
GMAC given the same warning in Section 6 as they did in Section 7, or made reference in 
Section 6 to additional terms in Section 7 also applying.
In addition to this, there is nowhere on the agreement that explains that the car is being 
financed under a conditional sale agreement, while the VAPs are being financed under a 
fixed sum loan agreement. And, as such, they are treated differently.
Its clear from reading the agreement that GMAC are relying on the figures at the start of the 
agreement, specifying the price and interest for each item, in making an argument to treat 
each of the repayments as divisible into elements relating to each different item purchased 
by Mr F. Which would support their claim that, upon a VT, separate liabilities accrue in 
respect of that part of the repayments that relates to the VAPs. However, the agreement 
doesnt divide repayments into separate liabilities in that way.
Instead, Section 11 says; If you have opted to buy GAP Insurance and/or Warranty on 
credit from us, you will pay for them by the Repayments; and Section 13 says Mr F will only  
become the legal owner of the car when he has paid the Total Amount Payable and all 
other sums due under this Agreement, where the Total Amount Payable includes the price 
and financing costs of all the items purchased, including the VAPs. So, the price of acquiring 
ownership of the car actually includes the entirety of the repayments, and not just the part of 
them identified at the start of the agreement as the cost of the vehicle.
  
So, the repayments arent treated in the agreement as divisible, pro-rata, according to the 
cost of the different items. Rather, they are treated as indivisibly applicable to all the items 
purchased. 
As such, while GMAC mayve provided a technically correct legal analysis of the agreement, 
and explained why it complies with the necessary legislation; Im satisfied that the 
agreement is unclear as to what would happen in these circumstances (and VT is a common 
way of ending this type of agreement), so is not in line with the FCAs Principle 7. And is 
unclear under CONC 4.2.5  specifically part (2) c), as the operation of the agreement is not 
in a manner which Mr F would reasonably be able for forsee.
Turning now to the financing of the VAPs under a fixed sum loan agreement. Given the 
above, Im not satisfied theres any contractual basis for GMACs claim that, upon VT, a pro-
rated share of all the future repayments for the VAPs is accelerated becomes payable. And, 
if the agreement had included such a term, Im also not satisfied this would be a fair term 
because it would overcompensate GMAC and circumvent the statutory and common law 
rights of a consumer to have accelerated payments mitigated by a rebate in respect of early 
receipt of interest.
As such, while GMAC can fairly argue that the costs of the VAP were covered by a fixed 
sum loan agreement, they havent rebated the interest on this agreement when it was repaid 
by virtue of Mr F exercising his right to VT. Which they are required to do.Putting things right
The investigator has recommended that the cost of the VAPs are pro-rated over the 31-
months of the agreement before VT. And, given that GMAC didnt adhere to Principle 7, and 
failed to fairly rebate the interest on the fixed sum loan part of the agreement, I consider this 
to be a fair recommendation. And I havent seen any compelling reason why this should be 
changed.
So, GMAC should cap Mr Fs total VT payments at £6,713.40, calculated as:
£6,164.50 (the VT amount quoted in Section 6); plus
31/60 of the total amounts payable in respect of the VAPs, which is £566.99. This 
represents the amount of use of the insurance products.
If Mr F has repaid less than £6,731.40 in relation to this agreement, then he should repay up 
to this amount in order to satisfy the terms of the VT. If Mr F has already paid more than 
£6,731.40, then he shouldnt be liable for any further charges in relation to the VAPs.
In addition to this, Mr F is also liable for the £207 end of contract damages charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Vauxhall Finance Plc trading as 
G.M.A.C. must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman