DRN-3506496
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to prevent an unidentified third party from
impersonating him and allowed them to open an account in his name.
What happened
Mr K noticed a second current account had been added to his banking profile and contacted
HSBC about it. HSBC looked into the account and confirmed to Mr K that hed become the
victim of an impersonation. Someone had used personal details to apply for a second
account and had provided a new telephone number and email address which was
automatically changed on Mr Ks genuine account profile.
HSBC closed the second account, removed any credit searches related to the application
and recorded the impersonation with CIFAS - who are a fraud prevention agency. Mr K
wanted to understand what had happened and asked HSBC for more details about the
application.
HSBC confirmed that theyd carried out two credit searches which were some weeks apart
and this was because the account opening process was backlogged. The second search
was undertaken when they processed the application and opened the second account. Mr K
was unhappy with how his details had been changed without reference to him and didnt
think that HSBC had done enough to protect him.
Mr K didnt suffer any direct financial loss, but he explained that he was worried about the
protection given to him by HSBC when they allowed the second account to be opened,
which was a duplicate of the one he already had. Mr K had previously been a victim of
impersonation and CIFAS held records of this at the time the application for the account was
processed.
HSBC explained that they checked CIFAS and couldnt see an protective registration in Mr
Ks name, but later confirmed that the records of the impersonation marker held with CIFAS
were present when they checked it for the application. The protective registration is a
system that identifies persons who are or have been at risk from impersonation or identity
theft.
HSBC explained that Mr Ks contact details (phone number and email address) had
automatically been updated because it was a new application which had satisfied their
electronic checks. When Mr K asked them about the application process, some of the
records were described as not very clear, but HSBC thought that the gap between the two
credit searches were due to issues with covid and staff shortages.
Mr K remained unhappy with how HSBC had handled the issue and made a complaint.
HSBC re-looked into it and didnt think that theyd made any errors, but accepted that Mr K
had been a victim of impersonation and removed the account, credit checks and added a
CIFAS record to notify other businesses that Mr K had been a victim.
Mr K was unhappy with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman for an independent review. Mr K wanted HSBC to improve their systems and
pay him £500 for the stress and worry they caused.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint and Mr K explained that he
already had a record with CIFAS from a previous impersonation attempt. He was aware that
post had been taken from the flats where he lived, which could explain why he never
received any post about the new account.
HSBC provided their records about the account and the complaint.
Our investigator thought that HSBC had acted reasonably when theyd opened the account
and didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases such as this one I think its important to understand that the difficulties experienced
by Mr K was initially caused by an unknown third party who had acquired enough details to
apply for an account with HSBC.
I appreciate Mr K is interested in the processes and inner workings of how HSBC handled
such applications, and Ill address those that I feel are relevant to the treatment Mr K
received. I wont be addressing the wider issues of how HSBC organise their internal
processes as thats not my role.
HSBC have explained that when they received the new application, they were satisfied that it
was genuine and opened the account. This allowed an automatic update of Mr Ks contact
details. I understand HSBC made their checks with various systems to satisfy themselves
the application was genuine, but a few aspects of the process stand out for me.
For a current customer of HSBC to change their own contact details (email/phone number),
theyre required to use some form of secure system or pass some form of security, whether
thats through a banking app, internet access or providing ID in a branch. It appears here
that they were changed due to a new application being received and apparently this didnt
require anything further. Whilst its for HSBC to organise the way they carry out such
changes, it appears that Mr Ks details were automatically changed. Although there was no
loss to him, I understand why Mr K felt worried about the safety of his funds if these details
were so easily changed.
At the time of the application, HSBC have confirmed that Mr K had a CIFAS marker loaded
which identifies him as having been a victim of previous impersonation fraud. HSBC have
explained that there was no active protective registration in his name. So, HSBC appear to
be saying that because there was no active protective marker, they had no cause to make
any further checks before they opened the account. But, CIFAS held information linked to a
fairly recent impersonation which I would have thought was evidence enough to raise the bar
when they opened the account. By that I mean to view the application with more caution.
Mr K made the point that he already had the same type of account with HSBC, which was a
Premier account. These types of accounts require certain conditions to be met, including
the payment of salary to satisfy the opening criteria. Im not sure how the second account
could satisfy the opening criteria if Mr K was already paying salary into another Premier
account. It would seem that only one account could satisfy that criteria, which was Mr Ksoriginal account.
I understand Mr K was unhappy with the two credit checks carried out by HSBC. When they
received the application its understandable that they would carry out checks, including with
the credit reference agencies. HSBC explained that there was a delay processing the
application which resulted in the second check because of staff shortages. I dont think
HSBC would have carried out the second check unless they felt there was a need to and
because they removed the searches from Mr Ks credit records, I wont be asking them to do
anything further about this.
Once HSBC realised Mr K was a victim of impersonation I think they took the appropriate
actions, which were to close the account, remove the credit checks and add a marker with
CIFAS to aid in the prevention of future problems for Mr K. Im of the opinion that HSBC
could have taken into account the previous impersonation issue Mr K had suffered and done
more to check with him before opening the account and changing his details. I recognise that
HSBC werent responsible for the false application, but I think they could have done more to
prevent the opening which caused Mr K worry and stress about the security of account and
funds.
Mr K wanted compensation of £500 for the inconvenience and stress caused by this issue.
Whilst I think HSBC could have dealt with his issue better, they werent responsible for the
false application, so I dont think it warrants such a payment.
So, Im currently intending to uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC to pay Mr K £100 for
the way they handled the application which caused him unnecessary stress and worry.
I invited Mr K and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC responded that whilst they didnt agree with 
everything Id said, they were prepared to settle the complaint as a gesture of goodwill 
without accepting liability. Mr K wanted me to consider further compensation for how HSBC 
handled his complaint. Mr K thought £200 was a more reasonable amount.
Mr K was critical of the anti-impersonation checks carried out by HSBC and didnt think 
theyd processed the application with enough care. He didnt think that HSBCs reasons for 
completing two credit checks was believable (Covid delays) and thought that his complaint 
took too long to be dealt with and wasnt taken seriously. Mr K though the increased 
compensation would make a point to HSBC and help to improve their services.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been provided with anything that would change my provisional 
decision. I appreciate Mr K feels that a higher amount of compensation is warranted here, 
but I dont think thats the case.
Ive already reviewed the actions of HSBC and identified where I think they let Mr K down. I 
think its important to recognise  as Mr K does  that the application was an attempt by a 
fraudster to obtain money from HSBC using his own details. Whilst I think HSBC could have 
given a better service to Mr K when they processed the new application, it was done whilst 
trying to provide a genuine service to someone who they thought was the real Mr K. 
I appreciate Mr K thinks that an increased payment to him would help to make a point to HSBC and improve their services, but thats not the basis for awarding such payments. My 
recommendation that HSBC pay Mr K £100 reflects the situation and the difficulties he faced 
when complaining and the impact it had on him.
Putting things right
I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr K £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman