DRN-4214094
The complaint
Mr M, who resides overseas, is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding the closure of his accounts by Barclays.
What happened
In February 2023, Barclays made the decision to no longer provide banking services to Mr M 
and to close his accounts with immediate effect. Mr M wasnt happy about this for several 
reasons. These included that he incurred significant phone call costs  given that he felt 
compelled to call Barclays from overseas about the matter  and that the act of having his 
accounts closed by Barclays had adversely affected his health. So, he raised a complaint. 
Barclays responded to Mr M and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
closing his accounts as they had and that they wouldnt be reimbursing Mr Ms hospital fees 
or most of his call costs as he would like. However, Barclays did acknowledge that they 
should have handled Mr Ms complaint better, and that on one occasion Mr M had to wait on 
hold for significantly longer than he should have done. Barclays apologised to Mr M for this 
and made a payment to him of £750 as compensation for trouble and upset he may have 
incurred, as well as a further £345 to cover the cost of Mr Ms call. Mr M wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Barclays had 
issued to Mr Ms complaint already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr M has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr M for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr M notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr M and Barclays. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays made the decision to no longer provide banking services to 
him and to close his accounts. However, in much the same way as a consumer can choose 
to no longer require services from a bank and to close their accounts with them, a bank can 
itself choose to no longer provide its services to a specific customer and to close that 
customers accounts. Barclays right to do take such an action is detailed in their account 
terms and conditions, which Mr M agreed to when opening his accounts with Barclays. 
Additionally, I feel that the circumstances of this complaint, as well as several earlier 
complaints which Barclays have detailed to this service, shows that the business relationship 
between Mr M and Barclays had deteriorated to a degree where Barclays decision to no 
longer be willing to provide banking services to Mr M wasnt unreasonable or unfair. 
Mr M also feels that Barclays implemented their decision to close his account without due 
consideration of the mental health issues he struggles with and feels that Barclays should 
have called or emailed him regarding their decision rather than just sending a formal letter. 
But I feel that Barclays were entitled to take the decision to close Mr Ms accounts as they 
did even in consideration of Mr Ms mental health issues. And so, I dont feel the mental 
health issues Mr M struggles with should have been a factor in Barclays decision here.
Barclays have confirmed that when taking the decision to no longer provide banking services 
to a customer, their process is to notify that customer in writing, and that they dont phone or 
email that customer under any circumstances. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, given 
that Barclays choosing to close Mr Ms accounts was a matter of fact and not a matter of 
debate, and so I dont feel that Barclays did communicate their decision to close Mr Ms 
accounts to him in an unfair way.
Mr M is also unhappy with several service issues, including long waiting times which, 
because he was calling Barclays from overseas, meant that he incurred significant call costs. 
And Mr M would like Barclays to reimburse to him the costs that he incurred when trying to 
get in touch with them by phone. 
But there were several other channels of communication that Mr M could have used to 
contact Barclays that didnt result in his incurring costs. And its clear that Barclays had 
previously explained to Mr M regarding earlier complaints that he should use such 
alternative channels to contact them and that they wouldnt be willing to reimburse the 
overseas call costs Mr M sought to claim for if he continued to try to phone Barclays from 
overseas and so incur costs that he was aware he was incurring. 
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and ultimately, its not Barclays fault that Mr M 
resides overseas. Similarly, Barclays have no control over how many people are trying to 
call them at any one time. And so, given that Mr M did choose to contact Barclays by phone 
from overseas, and didnt choose to communicate with Barclays via an alternative non-cost-
incurring channel, I dont feel it would be fair to instruct Barclays to reimburse the costs that 
Mr M knowingly incurred here, and which I feel he could reasonably have avoided.
However, in their response to Mr Ms complaint, Barclays acknowledged that there was one 
instance when they felt it was fair to reimburse a call cost to Mr M. This was when Mr M 
attempted to contact their executive office and was on hold for over an hour. Barclays felt 
this call to their executive office should have been answered more quickly, and they 
apologised to Mr M for this and made a payment of £345 to him reimbursement of the cost of that specific call. This feels fair to me, and I dont feel Barclays choosing to reimburse Mr M 
for this specific call means that they should also reimburse Mr M for the other calls he made. 
Mr M has also explained that Barclays decision to close his accounts, and how they 
implemented that decision, adversely affected his health, and caused him to incur hospital 
costs as a result. And Mr M would like Barclays to reimburse those hospital costs to him. 
But as explained above, I dont feel Barclays did anything wrong in how they closed Mr Ms 
accounts, and so I wouldnt consider instructing them to reimburse Mr M for any costs he 
may have incurred because of the account closures. And Im not convinced that it can be 
said that Mr M incurred the hospital costs hes seeking reimbursement for solely because of 
Barclays closing his accounts. As such, I wont be upholding this aspect of his complaint.
Mr M also feels that, following the closure of his accounts, Barclays didnt give him any 
information about how he could clear or make payments towards the balance that was still 
outstanding on his credit card account, and that hes missed a payment and incurred 
adverse credit file reporting as a result. But Mr M could have obtained information on how to 
make payments to his credit card via either Barclays website or via communicating with 
Barclays and asking them, either during one of the telephone calls Mr M made when he did 
get through to Barclays, or by an alternative channel.
Finally, Mr M is unhappy with how Barclays have handled his complaint to them. But this 
service cant consider complaints about how a business has handled a complaint. This is 
because this service can only consider complaints about regulated financial matters. And a 
complaint about how a business has handled a complaint isnt a complaint about a regulated 
financial matter  its a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint. 
I do note that Barclays upheld this aspect of Mr Ms complaint and agreed that they could 
have handled his complaint to them better. And I also note that Barclays paid Mr M 
compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred because of this. However, for 
the reason explained above, Im unable to comment on this matter further.
All of which means that  regarding the aspects of Mr Ms complaint that I can consider  I 
feel that the response that Barclays have issued to Mr M already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to whats happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman