DRN-3672778
The complaint
Mr J complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited trading as EQi gave him incorrect 
information that led to him not being able to take part in an alternative share offer.
What happened
Mr J held shares in Company T on EQis platform  that means that EQi was the nominee 
and Mr J had the beneficial interest in those electronic shares. In 2020, Company T 
announced a potential takeover. The corporate action gave shareholders the option of 
receiving 97 pence per share or elect to have an alternative which is one consideration 
share in the takeover company. If the corporate action took place, the original shares in 
Company T would be delisted  and any consideration shares wouldve been certificated 
and not listed.
Mr J phoned EQi in February 2021 asking how he could vote in the action and how to take 
the alternative election. He was told that EQi could do this for him. In March, after the 
corporate action went ahead, Mr J received a cheque compensating him 97 pence per share 
he held in Company T. He called EQi and was told that he would later receive share 
certificates but this was a mistake. EQi later explained that Mr J was only able to elect the 
alternative offer himself after his shares had been certificated. As his shares were held 
electronically, and he didnt elect himself he received the default option of 97 pence per 
share.
Our Investigator felt EQi had misled Mr J into believing it could elect the alternative offer on 
his behalf for the corporate action. But she concluded it was unlikely Mr J was able to elect 
himself in time due to how long it would take to rematerialise his electronic shares into 
certificated shares. She also said that had he been able to, it was too speculative to quantify 
any loss as the consideration shares in the new company werent listed. She recommended 
EQi pay Mr J £600 compensation for the trouble and upset.
EQi agreed but Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that had he 
been given sufficient information during his first call with EQi on 12 February 2021, this 
wouldve left enough time for him to certificate his shares and elect for the alternative offer. 
He said that his potential future loss is high and feels hes lost out due to EQis actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that EQi gave incorrect and misleading information to Mr J about how he could take 
part in the corporate action of Company T. Ive listened to the calls. It appears initially there 
is some confusion about voting in the corporate action and electing the alternative share 
offer  which are different actions. In the second call on 15 February 2021 its clear that Mr J 
is talking about the alternative share offer and EQi tell him that it can elect on his behalf. So, 
its reasonable for Mr J to have believed this would happen. Particularly when hed referred 
to the same shareholding on a different platform whereby he had to get his shares 
certificated for him to elect himself. So, I do think EQi misled Mr J in these calls  albeit 
mistakenly.
My role here is to determine what wouldve happened had EQi not given incorrect 
information. Having done so, Im not persuaded Mr J would be in any different position. Ill 
explain why.
Having listened to the calls between Mr J and EQi its clear that Mr J didnt want the 
corporate action to go ahead  hed mentioned he wanted to vote against it. He also talked 
about a different platform with which he held the same shares  hed said the process of 
electing the alternative share offer was complicated and meant hed have to get the 
certificated shares and send these himself. He was keen to take EQi up on the offer of doing 
this for him  which we know wasnt a possibility. So, had EQi not made an error here and 
had made it clear the same process applied in relation to the shares he held on its platform 
then Im not persuaded Mr J wouldve taken the action hed already decided was too 
complicated with his other platform provider.
Mr J has said he wouldve completed the election himself if he knew it was the only 
possibility. And even if I was persuaded this was the case, Im not persuaded there was 
enough time for him to do so. Mr J says hed have done this had he been given the correct 
information during the call of 12 February 2021. He said that wouldve given him 22 days to 
have the shares certificated and send these by post to the share registrar.
Having listened to the calls, even on 15 February 2021 where I think EQi gave the most 
misleading statement about it being able to elect on Mr Js behalf, Mr J had said he hadnt 
decided what he wanted to do yet. Had it not told him it could elect, and he asked for the 
shares to be certificated and sent to him he only had until 3 March 2021 to have sent the 
shares and form for the alternative election to the registrar. This was in total 11 full working 
days. I think its a very real possibility that had Mr J acted at the time of this call, that he 
wouldnt have made the deadline to elect for alternative shares. In which case, his shares 
wouldve been sold  which is what happened.
Mr J has said that he believes hed have had the consideration shares in the delisted 
company had EQis errors not occurred. Ive concluded that I dont think thats likely, but I 
also want to address that if it was likely it is very difficult to quantify what, if any, loss Mr J 
has suffered. The consideration shares hed have received instead of the cash werent listed, 
theres no indication of a value of these shares or what returns they would produce. Mr J has 
said that EQi could wait until the shares are relisted to determine loss but theres no 
indication as to if or when that may happen. So, whilst I dont think Mr J would be in any 
different position in terms of holding these consideration shares, even if he had been it would 
be too speculative to conclude hed lost out.
I have noted that Mr J bought additional shares in Company T prior to the corporate action 
completing. He says he did this because he wasnt going to elect with the shares he held on 
the other platform so felt hed purchase the same amount with EQi if it was able to process 
the alternative share offer for him. Whilst I think its likely he wouldnt have done this had EQi 
given him correct information, I cant see hes lost out. He purchased the shares for slightly 
less than he received under the corporate action, so it doesnt appear to have caused him 
any significant financial loss when looking at the contract notes.
What is clear is that EQi has caused Mr J distress and inconvenience. He thought hed 
receive consideration shares but instead received a settlement for his shares. He was then 
told more incorrect information about the situation and had to spend considerable time 
getting an answer as to what was happening. This wasnt acceptable. I agree with our 
Investigator that EQi should pay Mr J compensation of £600 to recognise the trouble and upset its errors caused him. This amount also covers any potential loss he made through 
purchasing additional shares prior to the corporate action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Equiniti Financial Services Limited 
trading as EQi must pay Mr J £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman