DRN-4391741
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Vauxhall Finance plc dealt with him when he was unable to 
afford the balloon payment at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr M acquired a new car under a regulated conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance. The term of the agreement was four years. At the end of the term, the 
balloon payment was £4,441, and he couldnt afford it; he was also in arrears. He asked to 
refinance the balloon payment, and he was given three quotes for a new loan, one of which 
was for £142.22 a month for 36 months. However, he was told at the same time that he 
would first need to clear arrears of £170.98 in fees and interest. Mr M paid that, but he was 
then told that he could not have the loan. Later, his account was defaulted and his 
agreement was terminated.
Mr M complains that he was fraudulently induced to pay the £170.98. He says he was not 
told that his application to refinance his debt would be subject to a credit check. He also 
complains that he was sent some default notices too frequently; that his account was sent to 
a third party debt collection agency without telling him; and that the agency made an 
unannounced home visit, which caused him stress because his autism makes it difficult to 
deal with new people. He asked for Vauxhall Finance to accept payments of £142.22 a 
month, as this is what Vauxhall had offered him earlier, or alternatively to waive the entire 
outstanding debt.
Vauxhall Finance said it had done nothing wrong. It had sent Mr M many letters  including 
two saying that his account would be sent to a collections agency if he did not get in touch  
but Mr M had never replied, so it had been left with no choice but to do that. He had not 
qualified for the refinance loan, due to the information on his credit file. Mr M therefore 
brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into this account, but he did not uphold most of it. He agreed 
that Vauxhall Finance had been entitled to send the account to a collections agency, and 
that it had warned Mr M of its intention to do so. It had been entitled to send arrears letters 
and default notices. The investigator said that Vauxhall Finance had been obliged to do a 
credit check before deciding whether to refinance Mr Ms debt, because otherwise there was 
a risk of selling him a loan he could not afford, and getting him into even further debt (since 
the quote was for an interest-bearing loan).
There was however one issue which led the investigator to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. 
He thought that Mr M was a vulnerable customer (due to his autism and also some health 
issues), and that Vauxhall Finance had not done enough to meet his needs, in two ways. 
Firstly, he thought that Vauxhall Finance should have told the debt collection agency about 
Mr Ms vulnerability, and that if that had happened then the agency would not have tried to 
carry out a home visit. Secondly, when the agency had sent Mr M a letter before action and 
he had asked for a second extension to the deadline to respond to it before legal 
proceedings were issued, the agency had consulted Vauxhall Finance about what to do, and 
the answer had been to refuse. The investigator thought that a second extension should 
have been granted.
The investigator recommended that Vauxhall Finance pay Mr M £100 as compensation for 
those issues. Vauxhall Finance agreed. But Mr M said this was not enough. He re-iterated 
the points he had made before, and emphasised that he needed an affordable repayment 
plan, or the debt written off. So this case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, although for slightly 
different reasons.
I agree with most of what the investigator said. Mr M was not defrauded of £170.98; this was 
money he already owed to Vauxhall Finance and he was under an obligation to pay it back. 
But paying that money was not a guarantee that the loan he was applying for would then be 
granted. Like all lenders, Vauxhall Finance had a duty to check that he could afford it, so it 
had to carry out a credit check. The result was that it found he had had two county court 
judgements against him for unpaid debt, as well as other negative information that led 
Vauxhall Finance to conclude that he could not afford another loan. That was a decision it 
was entitled to make.
I have seen the letters Vauxhall Finance wrote to Mr M. It set out a number of alternative 
options that he could consider. But ultimately, I dont think it was realistic for Mr M to be able 
to keep the car when he could not afford the balloon payment. Vauxhall Finance suggested 
that he end the agreement and return the car instead, an option which would only have 
required him to repay £270. I realise that he didnt want to do that, but I think he could have 
afforded to; if he could not pay £270 all at once then Im sure that Vauxhall Finance would 
have agreed to a repayment plan, such as paying it over two months.
Ive seen two letters in which Vauxhall Finance told Mr M that it would transfer his account to 
a collections agent if he didnt get in touch. Those letters are dated 21 September 2022 and 
26 January 2023. So Im satisfied that this did not happen without warning. And the other 
default letters and notices of sums in arrears were letters which Vauxhall Finance was 
required to send under financial regulations.
I dont agree that Vauxhall Finance needed to agree to a further extension of the deadline to 
respond to the letter before action. One extension had already been granted, and Vauxhall 
Finances message to the agency responding to the second extension request says that it 
had considered Mr Ms vulnerability when making the decision. I dont think that was a failure 
or error on Vauxhall Finances part.
I do however agree with my colleagues conclusion that if Vauxhall Finance had told the 
agency about Mr Ms autism then the agency might not have carried out a home visit 
unannounced. I think that £100 is fair compensation for that issue, given that Mr M was out 
at the time, so he didnt actually have to deal with a visit; he just came home to a note saying 
that someone had called while he was out.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I order Vauxhall Finance plc to pay 
Mr M £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
this case to an end, and so we will not consider any further arguments from either party.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman