DRN-2845002
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the way that they provided 
tax packs following a system change. Mr D says that this has caused difficulties when 
submitting tax returns. 
Mr D would like an apology from Barclays and compensation for the costs incurred for 
additional accountancy work required to submit tax returns following the system change.
What happened
Mr D held accounts with Barclays in his own name and had accounts that were set up for his 
children. These accounts were set up with a designation at the end  Mr D, a/c xxx.
Up until the tax year 2017/18, Barclays produced separate tax packs for Mr Ds accounts 
and the accounts that were designated. 
Barclays changed the way that tax packs were produced and for the tax year ending in 2018, 
tax packs were produced at client level rather than account level meaning that sub accounts 
with a designation didnt receive a separate pack.
Mr D complained to Barclays who arranged for packs to be sent for the tax year ending in 
2018 which allowed Mr D to submit tax returns using the information in the packs. Mr Ds 
relationship manager said that this would be an issue for the next tax year and said that he 
would make a note in his diary.
When the tax packs came in 2019, Mr D noticed that they were not at account level and 
asked Barclays to produce information in the same way as before.
Barclays declined to do this saying that they only produce tax packs at client level, and it 
was only done as a courtesy for the tax year 2018.
Mr D formally complained to Barclays who issued their final response on 19 December 2019. 
Barclays said that they had provided all the information necessary and were not required to 
give additional information.
Barclays said that they did not have any record of the designated or sub-accounts being 
different legal entities from Mr D and didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with Barclays decision, Mr D referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint.
The investigator didnt think that Barclays had made an error and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr D feels strongly about his complaint and Ill 
explain why I have reached this decision.
In his submission to the service, Mr D said that his father gifted investments to his 
grandchildren and Barclays and their predecessor businesses were actively involved in the 
setting up of these individual accounts.
Mr D has said that the accounts are separate legal entities and I have seen documentation 
between Mr D and his accountant which explains this thinking. I think that one of these 
reasons that Barclays have operated the accounts as sub-accounts or designated is that 
Barclays did not consider the accounts to be formal trust accounts.
In the submission from Barclays, I can see that Barclays referred to the accounts as 
informal bare trusts. The following information is noted:
I am afraid that we have no record of your own named sub-accounts being separate legal 
entities/trusts. Please be assured that all family assets that were legally written into Trust did 
always receive their own tax packs and associated tax certificates.
Mr D has said that this is a contradiction and as Barclays referred to the accounts as 
informal bare trusts, they are separate legal entities.
I think that the wording used by the relationship manager at Barclays is important. The 
manager referred to the bare trust as informal. This would suggest that it was not a formal 
bare trust.
My understanding of a bare trust is that it needs to be established using a deed of settlement 
or some other trust. Mr D has said that the investments contained within the sub-accounts 
were transferred from a previous trust.
I asked Mr D for any evidence that the assets were backed by a trust deed or any other court 
approved document. Mr D said the assets came from a Trust but there was no trust deed 
managing them.
Mr D said that the sub-accounts were separate legal entities and should be treated as such. 
In 2018, new rules were introduced that required Trusts to obtain something called Legal 
Entity Identifiers (LEIs). I asked Barclays whether the accounts had LEIs applied to them 
and they said that they were not required as they were Mr Ds sub-accounts and remained in 
his name.
The responsibility for setting up LEIs is with the Trustee and no LEIs were in place for the 
assets contained within the sub-accounts. I think that on balance, these were not Bare 
Trusts.
In the absence of any trust deed or associated document, I think that Barclays were entitled 
to treat the accounts as an informal bare trust and not as a Bare Trust.Turning to the points raised by Mr D on the tax packs and how information was recorded. Mr 
D says that the information was not in a format that allowed his accountant to easily prepare 
tax returns.
Barclays said that following a system change, a tax pack from provided to Mr D as a 
courtesy and they were not under any obligation to provide the information in that format.
Barclays said that they provided all the necessary information to aid Mr D in submitting his 
tax return and didnt think they had acted unfairly.
The service cant tell Barclays how they should operate, and we are not a regulator who can 
punish a business. The role of the service is to see if a business has done anything wrong 
and if they have, put the consumer back into the position they should have been in had the 
error not occurred. 
The service will also look to see if the consumer has been financial disadvantaged or has 
suffered trouble and upset because of the error.
Barclays say that the pack is in addition to the information that is contained within quarterly 
valuation reports. 
I think that Barclays have fulfilled their regulatory requirement in sending out the quarterly 
statements. Barclays have provided additional information that can be used by clients to 
submit tax returns.  
As Barclays operated the accounts as a designated or sub-account and not as a formal Bare 
Trust, I dont think that they have done anything wrong in providing the information to Mr D 
and Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman