DRN-3701307
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that UIA (Insurance) Ltd hasnt considered their claim for storm 
damage fairly under their home insurance policy. 
Whilst the policy is in both Mr and Mrs Ks name, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs K. Any reference 
to UIA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mrs K has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by UIA. 
In March 2022, Mrs K contacted UIA to log a claim for storm damage to her 
propertys soffits and facias. 
Mrs K provided UIA with an estimate for the repair works. The estimate said: 
Consistent heavy rainfall, resulting in damage to external soffits and facia board. 
Back and side elevation of the property has seen damage to the fixing of the facia 
board and guttering is sagging and detached in areas.
UIA arranged for a surveyor to attend Mrs Ks property to validate the damage and 
repair. 
The surveyor said: On closer inspection it is clear that the fascia boards have been 
glued onto the original timber ones. The fascia boards are in poor condition and the 
timber beneath has perished. This is poor workmanship as the original boards would 
eventually lose their bearing capabilities, particularly with the additional weight of the 
UPVC facia boards.
Mrs K complained that the surveyors inspection was substandard. UIA said it was 
satisfied the inspection was carried out correctly. It said if Mrs K provided an 
alternative report, it would review this. Mrs K hasnt been able to provide this. 
Having reviewed the matter again, UIA added: the failure results from the poor 
condition of the original facia behind the PVC section, the same appears to be 
disintegrating and pulling away from the main dwelling as per our initial findings.
UIAs position remains that the damage was not caused by a storm and was due to 
factors including wear and tear, lack of maintenance, rot, and poor workmanship. It 
said damage caused this way is excluded under the policy, and so there isnt an 
insured peril.  
Mrs K remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. So, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken account of the requirements set by the Regulator which includes that insurers 
must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably decline a claim. I have 
considered whether UIA dealt with Mrs Ks claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy wording which provides cover in the event of damage caused 
by storm. Under what is not insured it says: wear and tear, maintenance, normal 
decoration.
Its accepted that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened. So, it needs to be determined whether the damage is consistent with that 
which could be caused by a storm, and if it is whether a storm was the main cause of the 
damage. Im satisfied that a storm could cause damage to fascia boards and soffits. So, the 
key question here is whether a storm was the main cause of the damage.
Ive looked at the photographs and can see the fascia boards have been attached to the 
original timber boards. UIAs surveyor has pointed out that the timber beneath has perished 
and this tallies with what is depicted in the photographs. UIA explained that as the original 
timber boards disintegrate over time, they wouldnt be able to sustain the weight of the new 
fascia boards  which is reasoning Im persuaded by.
I understand Mrs K has said the fascia boards were installed in 2008 and she feels theyve 
stood the test of time. She also refutes UIAs argument that the boards werent fitted 
correctly.  But even if I put aside the issue of whether poor workmanship was a factor, it 
remains that the timber beneath the UPVC fascia boards has rotted. As the wood has 
disintegrated and flaked away in parts, Im more persuaded that this type of damage is 
something that would have happened over time, rather than a few weeks. As the boards 
were fitted in 2008, its likely that both the original and new boards would have experienced 
some wear and tear (unless maintained) during this time. 
Mrs K hasnt provided an equivalent report to show the damage was solely attributable to a 
storm. Nor have I seen anything to persuade me UIAs surveyors report and findings 
shouldnt be relied on. 
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not the damage was caused by wear and tear 
and/or a lack of maintenance and that UIA has acted reasonably by relying on this exclusion 
to decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman