DRN-3810679
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont recover an amount that was 
transferred incorrectly to his partners bank account.
What happened
Mr F agreed to transfer £60 to his partner, and allowed his partner to instruct the transfer 
themselves from his Nationwide banking app. However, Mr Fs partner transferred £600 to 
their account by mistake. Mr F contacted Nationwide about this and asked them to recover 
the additional £540 that had been transferred in error. But Nationwide couldnt recover the 
£540 as Mr F wanted. Mr F wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Fs complaint. They explained that theyd sent a Credit Payment 
Recover (CPR) request to Mr Fs partners bank, but that the bank had then advised that 
the recovery couldnt be completed because Mr Fs partner hadnt responded to their request 
for the return of funds to be authorised. 
Nationwide also explained that following this, theyd sent a form to Mr F for him to sign and 
return, authoring them to obtain information to confirm the recipient of the funds, but that Mr 
F hadnt returned this form. Nationwide therefore felt that theyd acted fairly and reasonably 
in trying to recover the money for Mr F and they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr F wasnt 
satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Nationwide shouldnt be held accountable for responsible 
for the incorrect amount being transferred to Mr Fs partner, and this is because Nationwide 
acted in good faith on the basis of the valid instruction to transfer £600 that they received.
Similarly, Im satisfied that following Mr F approaching Nationwide about the overpayment, 
that Nationwide did submit a CPR request to Mr Fs partners bank and that this request was 
unsuccessful because the recipient account holder  Mr Fs partner  didnt respond to their 
banks request to return the overpaid amount.
It's difficult to understand what more Nationwide could do here. Ultimately, the payment of 
£600 was an authorised payment from Mr Fs account  even if the amount sent was an 
error on the part of either Mr F or his partner who was submitting the transfer with Mr Fs 
permission. 
Because the amount sent was an authorised payment, Nationwide arent allowed to just take 
the overpaid £540 back from the recipient account. Instead, they have to ask the recipient 
account holders bank to return the money to Nationwide, which the recipient bank will only 
do with the express permission of the recipient account holder  in this case Mr Fs partner.  
Its notable that Mr F visited a Nationwide branch with his partner and explained that his 
partners bank was saying they had returned the money to Nationwide. But its also notable 
that Nationwide confirmed in response to Mr F that they have no record of receiving the 
overpaid £540 and suggested that Mr Fs partner ask their bank to conduct a trace of the 
returned funds which would confirm to where theyd been sent. 
This seems reasonable to me. But its my understanding that Nationwides request in this 
regard hasnt yet been actioned by Mr F or his partner. 
I can only encourage Mr F to meet Nationwides request here if hes still seeking to trace the 
overpaid amount. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Nationwide to credit Mr Fs account with 
£540 without their being able to confirm the receipt of that amount as being definitely 
returned to them by Mr Fs partners bank.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Nationwide havent acted unfairly towards Mr F 
here as he contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I trust that Mr F will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman