DRN-3388065
The complaint
X complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wrongly charged 
him for damage to a car at the end of a finance agreement. 
What happened
In June 2019 X entered into a two-year contract hire agreement for a new car with MBFS. 
The agreement required X to return the car in line with the Vehicle Return Standards set out 
in the agreement. Those standards included the maximum amount of damage that was 
permissible by reference to, for example, length and depth of scratches, dents and scuff 
marks. 
X arranged for the car to be returned at the end of the hire period. He says that he had some 
work done on it beforehand, so that it would be given back in good condition, as required. 
An initial inspection did not identify any chargeable damage to the car. A subsequent 
inspection carried out a few days later, however, indicated that there was damage which 
would cost over £1,000 to put right. MBFS charged X £765 for this, which it later agreed to 
reduce to £555. It said this was in respect of scuff marks to two wheels, a scratch to the cars 
bonnet, scuffs to the interior of the tailgate and a dent in the roof. 
X remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened and issued a preliminary assessment. He thought it was 
reasonable that MBFS arranged a second inspection and, having considered the results of 
that inspection, accepted that there was damage and that MBFS had been entitled to charge 
for it in the way that it had.
X did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. He said that, having indicated that there was no chargeable damage, MBFS should 
not be able to change its view and levy charges. He was also not persuaded that the 
damage had occurred after the car had been returned.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement set out in some detail the level of damage which would be 
acceptable and what would fall outside the Vehicle Return Standards. I have considered 
those standards, as well as the standards used by the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA). They are similar, but not identical; I do not believe however that there 
are any differences which are material to the outcome here. 
I have also considered the second inspection report and the photographs that accompany 
and form part of it. Having done so, I am satisfied that they do evidence the damage for 
which X has been charged. I do not need to comment on the charges that MBFS agreed to 
remove and do not do so. I am satisfied too that the damage described and photographed 
falls outside MBFSs own Vehicle Return Standards and those of the BVLRA. 
X says that MBFS should not have carried out a second inspection but should be bound by 
the initial indication that there was no chargeable damage. I am afraid I do not agree that this 
was unfair to him. MBFS indicated that it would carry out a second inspection. The second 
inspection could be carried out in an environment that ensured it was fair and accurate  for 
example, in a well-lit and dry space  which could not be guaranteed at collection. 
X has suggested too that any damage was not present at collection and so must have been 
caused when the car was returned to MBFS. The individual who collected the car says that 
no damage was caused after X handed it over. I cannot of course rule out the possibility that 
it was damaged later, but I think it unlikely. I think it more likely that X had not identified the 
damage (or not realised it fell outside the Vehicle Return Standards). It is much more likely 
that the car suffered the damage evidenced in the two years he had it than in the few days 
between its return and the second inspection.  
I am satisfied too that the charges that X was asked to pay were reasonable in the 
circumstances.        
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman