DRN-3453717
The complaint
Mrs F complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited mishandled the voluntary termination of a 
hire purchase agreement she had with it for a car.
Mrs F has been assisted by her husband in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reference 
I shall only refer to Mrs F as the financial agreement is in her name.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs F entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
used car. The car was around eight years old at the point of supply and had a mileage of 
around 59,500. The car cost £4,500 and the monthly payments were £126.88 with one final 
payment of £325.88.
In September 2020 Mrs F called MotoNovo as there had been a change in her 
circumstances and the car was no longer required. She said she had tried to sell it privately, 
but this hadnt been successful, and she asked about the conditions of voluntary termination 
(VT). The agent told Mrs F that she would be liable for the hallway point of the finance that 
had been agreed which amounted to £1,141.42. The agent also said there would be 
potential charges for any damage to the car that was beyond fair wear and tear. Mrs F said 
that there was some damage to the cars bumper and the agent responded that might fall 
under wear and tear.
Mrs F then asked the agent if she would be able to pay the balance left after VT by monthly 
instalments. The agent said this was permissible and that an affordable monthly payment 
plan could be considered to reduce the size of the payments. Mrs F asked about the impact 
on her credit file and the agent said there was only an impact if she did not contact 
MotoNovo following the VT to arrange payments and the balance had to be passed to a debt 
collecting company. Mrs F said she was happy to go through the VT process.
The hire purchase agreement was terminated, and the car collected. The car was inspected 
and assessed as having sustained damage to the value of £403 which was found to be 
beyond fair wear and tear. 
Mrs F was shocked to receive a request to pay the final liability of £1,544.42 within 30 days. 
She was also advised that failure to do so would lead to the account being passed to a third 
party for collection.
Mrs F complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo upheld her complaint as it accepted she had 
been wrongly advised by its agent as to being able to clear the balance by instalments. It 
said it would keep the account in house and not pass it on. 
However, MotoNovo said that having reviewed the cars inspection report it had found the 
damage charges fair and wouldnt be removing those and so the final liability would remain 
at £1,544,42. 
MotoNovo said that it accepted that Mrs F would have been caused distress and 
inconvenience from being given the wrong information. It offered £250 compensation to 
address the impact this had had on her.
Mrs F was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. She said she 
thought it would be fair for the outstanding liability to be waived by MotoNovo. Mrs F said 
had she been given the correct information by the agent about VT she wouldnt have agreed 
to follow this process and would have instead kept the car. 
Our investigator recommended Mrs Fs complaint should be partially upheld. She said she 
thought MotoNovo could have done more to resolve the complaint. However, our 
investigator disagreed that the balance should be written off. This was because the liability of 
£1,141.42 was payable under the terms and conditions of the agreement when the 
agreement had been VTd. And having reviewed the inspection report for the car she 
considered the damage that had been found was beyond fair wear and tear and so the 
invoice for £403 had also been fair. She thought the balance of £1,544.42 was payable in 
the circumstances.
Our investigator said a fair settlement would be for MotoNovo to pay a total amount of 
compensation of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused and for it to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs F. She also said that MotoNovo should mark this 
account on Mrs Fs credit file as settled by VT.
Mrs F disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said it was unfair for her to pay the full 
balance as she wouldnt have request to VT the agreement if shed known what she had 
been told wasnt correct. Mrs F said if she had kept the car, then she wouldnt have faced 
additional charges of £403 for the damage. Mrs F offered to pay half of the £1,141.42 figure 
in full and final settlement.
MotoNovo also disagreed with our investigator and declined Mrs Fs offer. It said an 
additional £150 as compensation was unreasonable and that it had to report accurate 
information about Mrs Fs account to the credit reference agencies so couldnt record the 
account as settled.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that MotoNovo provided Mrs F with the wrong advice as to the conditions 
that applied when an agreement is VTd. The issue for me is what would be a fair and 
reasonable settlement for Mrs Fs complaint.
Mrs F says she would have kept the car if she had known she couldnt pay the final balance 
by instalments after she had VTd the agreement. And as that would also mean she wouldnt 
have faced the additional invoice for the damage found with the car, its unfair for her to have 
to pay the full liability. She has made an offer to pay £570.71.
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs F, Im afraid I disagree with her 
view. This is because Mrs F, having considered the conditions of VT as originally set out by 
MotoNovo, chose to proceed. And I think its reasonable to say that she was content to VT if 
she was able to pay off the liability by instalments. Ive also seen that the agent advised her 
there was a possibility she would need to pay for any damage to the car if it was discovered to be more than fair wear and tear. Mrs F had acknowledged in that call that there was some 
damage to the car as she raised the condition of the bumper. So, I think she was aware 
there may be extra costs incurred over the 50% liability when she requested to VT 
agreement and hand the car back. 
I appreciate that had Mrs F known she had to pay off the liability within 30 days she wouldnt 
have opted to end the agreement and Ive seen that MotoNovo agrees it misled her as to this 
point. So, I think it would be fair for MotoNovo to honour the conditions that it had originally 
set out and which Mrs F found agreeable. That is the liability can be paid via monthly 
instalments and that an affordable repayment plan is agreed. I dont think its proportionate 
or fair in the circumstances for MotoNovo to waive the liability that remains due under this 
agreement.
Looking at the damage charges for the car, Ive seen MotoNovo says these are in line with 
the British Vehicles Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. These guidelines 
set the industry standard as to what is and isnt considered to be fair wear and tear. 
However, these guidelines are also designed to apply when assessing a car at the end of its 
first credit agreement which isnt the case here. The car was around eight years and had a 
mileage of about 59,500 at the point of supply to Mrs F, so there would be an expected level 
of wear and tear to its parts and bodywork already.
Ive seen the inspection report which includes photos of the car and the damage that was 
recorded. Mrs F doesnt appear to have disputed the damage found, she says its unfair she 
pays it because it wouldnt have been incurred if shed kept the car. Ive considered the 
damage that was recorded, and I agree that its fair MotoNovo charges for it as I think it is 
beyond fair wear and tear even when taking into account the age and use of the car. 
There is a dent on the body quarter panel which is clearly visible in the photo and is greater 
than 15mm. I think its more likely than not that this dent occurred while the car was in Mrs 
Fs possession when looking at the cost of the car at the point of supply which indicated the 
car would have been in good condition. The repair cost for this is £35.
The rear bumper has peeling paint showing the base and so cannot be polished out and 
requires repainting. This is again beyond fair wear and tear for a car of this age and use. The 
repair cost is £130.
The front bumper corner has visible scratches over 25mm. The repair cost of £58 is 
reasonable as this damage is beyond fair wear and tear.
All four of the alloy wheels show significant scuffs marks that exceed 50mm and again Im 
satisfied these are beyond fair wear and tear for the age of the car and are chargeable by 
MotoNovo. The cost of these repairs amounts to £180.
So, in assessing the evidence in respect of the damages found to the car, Im satisfied that 
the charges of £403 are fair and reasonable. Under the agreement the responsibility is on 
Mrs F to keep the car in a good standard of condition and repair. It also states that it will be 
for Mrs F to pay the cost of putting the car back into the good condition it would have been in 
had she taken reasonable care if she terminates the agreement. As Mrs F has signed this 
agreement, then its reasonable to expect she was aware and agreeable to its terms and 
conditions. I therefore think MotoNovo is entitled to raise these charges for the damage 
found. 
Although I think Mrs F is liable for the £1,544.42 balance outstanding, I think she has been 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience for the way in which MotoNovo has 
handled her request for VT. Ive seen it provided £250 to in compensation for the poor customer service but I agree with our investigator that this amount doesnt recognise the full 
impact this matter has had on her. Mrs F was shocked to find that the advice and 
reassurance shed been given as to how she could return the car and clear the outstanding 
liability was incorrect. This would have caused her considerable worry and has also had an 
impact on her credit file. I think an additional £150 compensation, making a total payment of 
£400, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
MotoNovo says that it is under an obligation to record accurate information about this  
account on Mrs Fs credit file and that therefore it cant mark it as settled by VT as there is 
still an outstanding balance to pay but I disagree. The obligation on MotoNovo is to record 
accurate and fair information. And here, MotoNovo informed Mrs F there would be no 
adverse information recorded if she VTd the agreement and paid the liability off by 
instalments. It said there would only be adverse information if she didnt make arrangements 
to pay the balance.
In light of MotoNovos misleading advice I think its fair that MotoNovo removes any adverse 
information in respect of this account having been VTd and marks it as settled by VT. 
However, if Mrs F doesnt later co-operate with a payment plan then I think it would be fair 
for MotoNovo to report that.
So, for the reasons given Im partially upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Manage Mrs Fs account.
Contact Mrs F and agree an affordable repayment plan for the amount Mrs
F owes which totals £1,544.42. This amount comprises of £1,141.42 halfway point to
VT and £403 damage charges. 
Pay Mrs F £150 in addition to the £250 (distress and inconvenience) already
paid. This is to recognise the impact on her and the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its handling of the VT.
Mark Mrs Fs account on her credit file as settled via VT and remove any adverse 
information recorded relating to the VT.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Im asking 
MotoNovo Finance Limited to do the following:
Manage Mrs Fs account.
Contact Mrs F and agree an affordable repayment plan for the amount Mrs
F owes which totals £1,544.42. This amount comprises of £1,141.42 halfway point to
voluntary termination and £403 damage charges. 
Pay Mrs F £150 in addition to the £250 (distress and inconvenience) already
paid. This is to recognise the impact on her and the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its handling of the voluntary termination.Mark Mrs Fs account on her credit file as settled via voluntary termination and 
remove any adverse information recorded relating to the voluntary termination.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman