DRN-3717334
The complaint
Mr C complains Santander UK plc (Santander) blocked his correspondence address which 
resulted in withholding his debit card, and he was then told he had to visit a branch to have 
his address changed. 
What happened
Mr C says he discovered his Santander debit card had expired and when enquiring about 
this he was informed it was due to mail being returned, so his address had been blocked. Mr 
C says he was told if he called the following day his address could be changed over the 
telephone and a new debit card could be sent out. Mr C says when he attempted to do this 
he was then told he needed to attend a branch with identification before his address could 
be amended.
Mr C says he was never previously informed of any returned mail, or that his debit card was 
being withheld and what actions he needed to take. Mr C feels its unfair of Santander to 
insist he makes a branch visit to change his address rather than online and he is unhappy he 
was provided with incorrect information about the process. Mr C wants Santander to issue 
him with a debit card and allow him to amend his address details without visiting the branch 
and in addition wants Santander to offer him compensation for its mistake and the time it has 
taken him, above the £25 it has paid. 
Santander says the address was blocked because it had mail returned via the postal service 
and thats why the debit card wasnt sent. Santander says because Mr C incorrectly 
amended his address online, it wasnt able to amend this over the telephone as this wasnt 
part of its process. Santander says it has apologised for informing him it could and have paid 
Mr C £25 for that. Santander says Mr C needs to visit a local branch with identification in 
order for the address to be correctly amended and then the debit card can be sent. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Santanders process states it doesnt contact a customer when an address 
block is applied, and he couldnt tell it to change this. The investigator agreed that the 
change to Mr Cs account details were not minor, so it was reasonable for Santander to ask 
Mr C to visit the branch to amend his address details. 
The investigator acknowledged Santander had made an error when it told Mr C it would be 
able to change his address details if he called the following day, but he felt the compensation 
it had paid of £25 was sufficient. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked or the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C to not receive his debit card 
because his address had been blocked without his knowledge. I can also understand that Mr 
C feels he has been inconvenienced by Santander having been told he could change his 
address details over the telephone, then to be told he couldnt and needed to visit a branch 
to do so. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted unfairly when it blocked Mr 
Cs correspondence address and the issue of his debit card and then insisted he needed to 
visit a local branch to amend this. 
From the information I have seen Santander had mail returned from Mr Cs address and in 
December 2020 the correspondence address was blocked. Although its not clear exactly 
why that was, there does appear to be some inconsistencies as to the full address details 
held for Mr C, which would have been input by him online. What is fair to say is when 
Santander get mail returned from the address it has registered, its not unreasonable for 
security reasons to protect the account and an address block marked.  
While I can understand Mr Cs frustration that he was never informed of this mail return 
resulting in his debit card not being sent, this is the procedure and process Santander adopt 
in case any other data it holds is also incorrect  and its not the role of this service to tell 
banks like Santander what processes it must have in place in these circumstances.  
Thats not to say I dont have some sympathy with Mr Cs situation when he attempted to 
correct his address online as he was trying to correct matters. That said as the details he 
had entered were incorrect, Santander under its process werent able to accept any further 
amendments online or over the telephone  but I agree it shouldnt have informed Mr C it 
could. Having said that Santander have apologised to Mr C for the misinformation and paid 
him £25 by way of apology and to contribute to any costs he might incur in having to visit a 
local branch.
While I understand Mr C feels this doesnt go far enough and Santander should now issue 
him a new debit card, Im not fully persuaded by this argument as after all this is Santanders 
process and I cant tell it to change that nor is it for me to penalise businesses when a 
genuine mistake regarding how its process works, is made. Overall and with this in mind, 
Im satisfied the apology and £25 compensation payment Santander have paid is fair. 
I understand Mr C has more recently changed his address and was having difficulties 
amending this online, so given that, it would make sense as agreed by Santander with the 
investigator for him to contact them by telephone to have this matter dealt with. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman