DRN-3457844
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2018, Mrs L was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mrs L decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ls behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would reduce her electricity bills;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings would provide enough income to cover the finance 
agreement repayments costs; and
the system would therefore be self-funding.
The CMC also said that these misrepresentations had given rise to an unfair relationship 
between the parties, under section 140A of the Act.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, as it had been based on sales 
documentation which Mrs L said she had found to be confusing due to its length (32 pages) 
and the numerous figures it contained.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs L could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs L and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentations by P.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs L says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, both titled Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mrs Ls testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs L, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs Ls 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
As Ive said, there were two versions of the quote. These were dated 10 and 15 April 2018. 
The difference between the two quotes is that the original quote estimates that the system 
will generate 3,568 kWh a year, and the revised quote gives an estimate of 3,282 kWh a 
year. This difference in the estimates affects the other figures in the quotes slightly, but the differences are modest. The reason for the revision of the quote has not been explained, but 
as I have set out below, the systems performance exceeded both of the estimates, so I do 
not think that the differences are significant.
All of the screenshots and descriptions of the quote I have given below are from the original 
quote, dated 10 April. I have focused on that version mainly because that is also the date on 
which the loan agreement was signed, and so it is likely to be the version which was referred 
to at the sales meeting. But I have also used that version because it is the one which gives 
the most optimistic figures, and so using this document would be the most favourable 
approach to Mrs L.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs L has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments, together with savings on her electricity bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as Mrs Ls recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs L could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. That is because 
the FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs L could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £227.11, which results in an average monthly income of £18.93. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £119.61. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs L was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs L could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £416.65 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs L, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £919.64. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
I agree that the quote does contain a lot of figures. However, I think that these are helpfully 
and clearly presented, and that the Putting it all together section is helpful. Although I do 
not doubt Mrs Ls word that she still found this document confusing, I find that P set out this 
information in a clear and accessible way, and I am reinforced in that view by the further 
information in the quote to which I refer below. Because of that, I am not persuaded that it is 
likely that the salesman contradicted what the quote said during the meeting. (I return to this 
point below.)
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mrs L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £119.61. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £120.75, but the difference  £1.14  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £119.61, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first eight years of the loan, meaning that the system would take that long to 
begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs L could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above 
that Mrs L wasnt told that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully 
thought about Mrs Ls version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, which plainly showed that the system would not be 
enough to cover the loan payments, and also that it would take over 12 years for Mrs L to 
break even and begin to make a profit (taking into account the cost of the loan).
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs L that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.14 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs L. 
On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs L was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Mrs L could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system. This is summarised in a conspicuous 
graphic immediately underneath.
I think the 9-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it was confusing or that it needed further explaining.
(For completeness, a later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance 
of the system over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 12 the overall benefits that 
Mrs L could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement, £14,490. I accept that this table contains a lot of figures (I have only shown three 
rows below, out of 25), and that Mrs L did find this off-putting and would not have studied it. 
For that reason, if this table had been the only place where P had set out information about 
the performance of the panels, I would not have thought it was enough, and I would have 
upheld this complaint. But the rest of the evidence which I have set out above is clear 
enough, in my view, to make it unlikely that the salesman told her that the system would 
cover the loan payments from the start, with or without this table.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs L that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 12 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs L. The MCS certificate and the revised quote set out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,282 kWh a year. The original quote says 3,568 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ls FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,765 kWh a year. This is more than both of Ps estimates at or around the point 
of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as or better than expected, in terms of 
kWh.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs L hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs L could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs L entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs L to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. But the CMC may reply on her behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman