DRN-2245193
The complaint
Mrs N says Landmark Mortgages Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs N took out PPI in 1995 at the same time as she applied for a mortgage. The policy gave 
her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mrs Ns mortgage application. This made clear the PPI was optional, but the box 
on her form seems to be scribbled over so the intention isnt clear. However next to this box 
the form says a separate application form and direct debit mandate must be completed. And 
Mrs N went on to do this, so I think its most likely she wanted the cover. She says she was 
told it was a necessity. I cant know what was said during the sale, and I have to take into 
account how long ago it was and how that might affect what she recalls. Ive found nothing 
on the PPI application form that I think could reasonable have led her to believe it was 
mandatory.
Overall, I think its most likely Landmark Mortgages made clear the PPI was optional and 
Mrs N agreed to take it.
Mrs N says Landmark Mortgages recommended the PPI to her, it disagrees. I havent seen 
any evidence that it looked at her circumstances before making a tailored recommendation. 
This means I dont think it had to consider whether PPI was suitable for her. But, it did have 
to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so that she 
could make an informed choice. Its possible she wasnt given enough information, but I 
dont think she would have made a different decision with better information. I say this 
because:
Mrs N was eligible to take out PPI given her circumstances. 
Mrs N told us she was entitled to at least three months sick pay, but the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 
months redundancy cover. Mrs N said her parents would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection  its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can 
change. Mrs N was borrowing a large sum of money over a long period, secured on 
her home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mrs N if she was sick or lost her job.
I cant see that Mrs N wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover at the time she took out the policy, so I dont think having better 
information about these things wouldve made any difference to her decision to take 
out PPI. 
The premium was paid monthly so she couldve cancelled PPI at any time
without incurring any further costs. The policy was a reasonable cost for the benefit it 
offered  the price was set out on the PPI application form - and I cant see that the 
policy was unaffordable.
So, I cant see that Mrs N has lost out because of anything that Landmark Mortgages 
couldve done better. I think with better information its most likely she would have still taken 
out the policy.
Mrs N also said she is unhappy with how Landmark Mortgages has handled her complaint. 
Landmark Mortgages suggested that there seems to have been some confusion between 
this mortgage complaint and other complaints about different products Mrs N held. It also 
explained that as Mrs N had changed the contact address for this policy in 2003 away from 
the mortgaged address, its first PPI search was unsuccessful.  As I am not upholding Mrs 
Ns complaint I have no powers to instruct Landmark Mortgages to do anything further with 
regards how it has handled the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman