DRN-4009039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) caused delays 
when handling a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2022, Mr C made a claim online to RSA under his legal expenses insurance policy to 
pursue action against his employers. Two weeks later, he was informed that his claim fell 
within the previous insurers period of cover. Hes unhappy with the time it took RSA to 
inform him of this, as its impacted his employment dispute which was subjected to short 
court deadlines.
RSA declined the complaint, so Mr C brought it to our service. But our investigator was 
satisfied that RSA had handled the claim promptly and any delays were minimal. Mr C 
doesnt agree. He says any delay matters due to the time sensitive nature of employment 
disputes. The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C made his claim to RSA on Tuesday 26 April 2022. RSA undertook a 
policy validation process which was completed by Friday 29 April 2022, and it sent a text 
message to Mr C to confirm this. 
Like many legal expenses insurers, RSA doesnt sell the policies directly to customers, so it 
doesnt hold policy details on its system. When a claim is made, this information is requested 
from the seller of the policy to determine that a policy was in force at the time of the claim 
and on what terms. This is a common process and can take a few days depending on how 
quickly the third party involved provides the information. Im satisfied that RSA obtained this 
information promptly in Mr Cs case.
RSA proceeded to assess the claim. On Wednesday 4 May 2022, Mr C contacted RSA for 
an update and on Monday 9 May 2022, RSA responded to explain that it had passed the 
claim to the previous insurers.
Its not in dispute that the claim was correctly referred to the previous insurer. But Mr C is 
unhappy with the time it took RSA to do so. From the information Im provided with, this took 
a total of ten working days. Whilst I appreciate that Mr Cs claim was time sensitive, Im not 
persuaded that this was an unreasonable amount of time. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
requires insurers to handle claims promptly  but this doesnt mean decisions will be 
immediate. An insurer will require time to gather and assess information in order to make an 
informed decision and, in this case, I cant see that RSA has caused any avoidable delays.
Im also mindful that Mr C was directed to the other insurer and transferred through to their 
phone lines by his home insurance provider, which Ive had to take into consideration when 
reaching a fair decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman