DRN-3144206
The complaint
Ms S complains that, following its advice not to transfer her Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) benefits to a personal pension plan (PPP), Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) then 
advised her to aggregate her two periods of service within the OPS. She says this advice 
was unsuitable as she received a lower tax free lump sum as well as a lower pension 
income as a result. 
She also complains about the suitability of the advice she was given to take out a separate 
PPP. She says the plan hasnt performed well and she wasnt told that excessive charges 
would continue to be taken from the plan after she stopped making contributions. 
What happened
Ms S worked for HMRC and had two separate spells of service as a member of the Civil 
Service Pension scheme  from May 1976 to 31 April 1984 and then from January 1988 to 
May 1994. 
In 1994 Ms S, who was then self employed, met with Zurich to discuss her retirement 
planning. As a result, she accepted a recommendation to take out a PPP, with a selected 
retirement age of 55, making contributions of £80 per month into a managed fund from 
June 1994. She continued to pay into the plan until she left the country and ceased 
payments in April 1996. 
At the same time Ms S sought advice about her deferred OPS benefits and looked into the 
possibility of transferring them to the PPP. But after further analysis Zurich advised Ms S that 
such a transfer wasnt in her best interests. Ms S says that following that decision she 
received documentation from the OPS about whether to aggregate her two spells of service. 
She says she asked her adviser about that and was told to amalgamate the service instead 
of leaving them as two separate periods.
In 2015 Ms S took the benefits payable from her PPP.  
In 2018 Ms S drew the benefits from her OPS. A quotation issued by the scheme in 
May 2018 showed that she would receive a tax free lump sum of £15,700.99 with an annual 
pension of £5,233.66. Ms S says she later became aware that if shed chosen the other 
option of separating her HMRC service she would have received a lump sum of £20,926 with 
an annual pension of £6,975. 
So in August 2019 Ms S complained, as she didnt think the advice shed received from the 
Zurich adviser was appropriate and had led to her being financially worse off than she would 
have expected. In particular she thought the advice around aggregating her OPS service 
was unsuitable and she didnt think shed been advised about the charges that applied to her 
PPP  which led to her receiving less than shed paid in.
Zurich didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had made Ms S aware of how the PPP worked 
when she took it out, which included detailed information about the charges involved. It said 
it wrote to Ms S in 1996 and explained that deductions would continue to be made even after 
premiums had been stopped. It said the final amount it paid Ms S in 2015 was more than the 
value of her contributions before it made a deduction for the income tax that was payable. 
Zurich then confirmed that Ms S hadnt transferred her OPS benefits to the PPP and that its 
adviser could only advise on Zurich products. So they wouldnt have able to advise on, or 
make a recommendation about, aggregating the service periods within her OPS. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. The investigator said that Ms Ss complaint shouldnt be 
upheld as there was no evidence that Ms S had transferred her OPS benefits to her PPP, so 
she should contact her OPS administrator to find out the value of her pension. She also said 
the advice to take out a PPP in 1994 had been suitable because Zurich had outlined its 
charges within a Key Features Document (KFD), and she didnt think the charges were 
higher than shed expect to see. 
The investigator went on to explain how Zurich said it would continue to deduct charges in a 
letter from April 1996  after Ms S had stopped paying into her PPP. The investigator said 
that the fund value was now broadly equivalent to the total premiums that had been paid, but 
this reflected that for the last 15 years charges had continued to be taken and no 
contributions were made.
Ms S accepted that she didnt transfer her OPS benefits into a PPP, but confirmed that she 
had two main complaint points. The first was that she had aggregated her two periods of 
OPS service  on Zurichs advice, which had negatively impacted the pension and lump sum 
that she received. The second complaint point was that she didnt accept the continuation of 
charges from her PPP had been fully explained to her. She asked for her complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.
The investigator also responded to Ms Ss reply. She said that the available evidence didnt 
support the position that the Zurich adviser had given Ms S any advice relating to the 
consolidation of her OPS service. She explained that in any case the adviser was tied to 
Zurich and could only advise on products from that firm  so they wouldnt have been able to 
recommend the aggregation of her OPS service. She also reiterated that Zurich had set out 
the charges it would deduct from the PPP in the documents it provided when Ms S took out 
the plan, and had confirmed that it would continue to deduct charges when Ms S stopped 
making regular contributions.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my findings:
Id seen evidence to show that, following her decision to leave her OPS, Ms S and 
her Zurich adviser engaged in a discussion to see if it was in her best interests to 
transfer the OPS benefits to a PPP. Zurich eventually decided it wasnt in her best 
interest and prepared a letter for her to forward to the OPS administrator to inform it 
that she wouldnt be transferring. Ms S then received letters from the OPS about 
whether to amalgamate her two spells of OPS service  but there was no evidence of 
any discussion between her and the adviser about this matter. 
I accepted that Ms S would probably turn to her adviser in such a situation and was 
unlikely to make a decision on the amalgamation of her OPS service without some 
form of advice. But I hadnt seen any persuasive evidence to show that she had been 
advised by Zurich to aggregate the service. However, I explained that even if some evidence came to light about the advice, I 
wouldnt be able to consider it further because transfers from one OPS to another, or 
ancillary matters such as this couldnt be considered before 2015, as they werent 
regulated activities.
The advice Ms S was given to take out a PPP in 1994 appeared to be suitable. 
Thats because she wasnt contributing to a PPP at the time and advice to boost her 
retirement provision was appropriate to her situation. I thought the contribution level 
seemed affordable for Ms Ss circumstances and the investment into a managed 
fund was appropriate considering the time left until her retirement and her general 
situation at the time. But Ms S had said that she wasnt made aware of the costs and 
charges that were applied to the plan  so I looked at whether she was made aware.  
Id seen a KFD that was issued to Ms S at the time which did set out the charges 
involved. It also confirmed that contributions could be stopped and restarted but 
didnt say that the charges would cease as well. I thought the KFD set out the long 
term nature of making regular contributions but without any provision for the charges 
being suspended. So I thought Ms S had been made aware of the charges involved 
and if she thought they were excessive, I would have expected her to have 
questioned them at the time.
In addition, I thought the charges werent at odds with those levied by other providers 
at the time. 
Id also seen the letter that Zurich sent Ms S in 1996 when she stopped her 
contributions, which said that it would continue to deduct units from the plan in 
respect of charges which remained due. So I didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly by 
continuing to deduct charges.  
Ms S said she didnt receive any correspondence from Zurich for many years and 
would have cashed in her plan if shed known charges continued to be levied. But the 
earliest she could have drawn her pension benefits was two years before she did, 
and I didnt think that would have allowed her much scope to protect her plans value 
 and she had received growth on the plan during that time as well.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich said it didnt have anything further to submit or any further comments to make but 
Ms S didnt accept the provisional decision. She made the following points;
She thought Id focused more on the suitability of the advice to take out the PPP 
instead of the advice to aggregate the periods of OPS service. 
She, although reluctantly, accepted the decision on the PPP, but not for the OPS. 
She thought Zurich had washed their hands of the adviser (he no longer worked for 
Zurich) and didnt believe my decision was acceptable  although she had no further 
paperwork to submit in favour of her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after carefully considering Ms Ss further points, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
The suitability of the PPP and the ongoing deduction of charges
As I said previously, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the advice to take out a PPP in 1994 
wasnt suitable  given that Ms S was self employed and no longer part of her OPS. I think the contribution level was affordable for her at the time and I think investment into medium 
risk funds was appropriate bearing in mind the remaining investment horizon to retirement.  
Ms S said that she wasnt made aware of the charges applied to the plan but the KFD given 
to Ms S noted the various charges that would be applied to the contract, so I think Ms S was 
made aware of them. Ms S subsequently stopped her contributions so she thought the 
charges should have ceased at that point. But a letter which was sent to Ms S in 1996  in 
response to her request to stop her contributions, confirmed that deductions would continue 
to be made from the pension fund. The letter said the units currently allocated will continue 
to participate in the investment performance of the selected pension fund. We will continue 
to deduct units for the indexed policy charge and full return of fund benefit.
I think the letter made Zurichs position clear and made Ms S aware not only that the 
charges would continue by deducting units from within the pension fund, but also the 
reasons why this was necessary. And I havent seen anything within the KFD or technical 
policy provisions which suggested that charges would be suspended if contributions were 
stopped. So I dont think Zurich did anything wrong regarding the setting up of the PPP, 
making Ms S aware of its charges, and informing her that they would continue when her 
contributions ceased. 
Ms S has said that, reluctantly, she accepts my findings around the PPP. So Ill move on to 
the part of the complaint that she doesnt accept  namely the advice to aggregate her 
OPS service. She has previously said that she now accepts her OPS benefits werent 
transferred to the PPP.
The advice to aggregate the OPS service
Ms S says she was given very poor financial guidance on her Civil Service Pension. And 
she thinks Zurich has now washed it hands of the adviser that gave her the 
recommendation. She would like my comments on that point, which she says she has raised 
before.
In my provisional decision I set out a timeline of events from May 1994 to May 1995 during 
which I recorded the various exchanges between Zurich, Ms S, and the OPS, around the 
advice to potentially transfer the OPS benefits into her PPP. I said this was confirmed in a 
letter dated 1 March 1995, which Zurich sent to Ms S to forward to the OPS confirming that 
Zurich wouldnt be able to accept a transfer as it wasnt in Ms Ss best interest.
Ms S accepts the transfer didnt take place  so I dont propose to set out the timeline again 
or make any further comment on the matter.  But the two subsequent letters that I was 
provided with from April and May 1995, only involved communication between Ms S and the 
OPS, and were in respect of her option to aggregate the service shed had within HMRC. 
I havent been provided with anything to suggest any further communication between Ms S 
and her adviser, so I cant reasonably conclude that the adviser did provide a 
recommendation.  Zurich has said that, even if the adviser had spoken to Ms S about this 
matter, he couldnt have provided advice as he was only authorised to advise on its products 
and services  although I cant entirely rule out the possibility that he may have made 
suggestions which werent recorded, and I have no reason to disbelieve Ms Ss version of 
events. 
But apart from her recollections of events, theres no corroborative evidence to show the 
adviser was involved at all and it wouldnt be fair for me to say otherwise. So I dont agree 
that Zurich has washed it hands of the adviser as theres no persuasive evidence to 
suggest advice was given.In my provisional decision I said that if any evidence came to light to suggest any advice 
was given to aggregate the OPS service, then I wouldnt be able to consider it anyway. 
Thats because, prior to 2015, that type of advice on OPSs wasnt considered to be a 
regulated activity  so we wouldnt be able to consider it under our DISP rules. And because 
the changes in 2015 werent retrospective we couldnt consider Ms Ss complaint about the 
amalgamation of her two periods of service, even though she brought her complaint after 
this date. 
Ms S hasnt provided any further evidence to support her claim that she was given advice, 
so I dont have to make any further consideration  but its important that Ms S is aware that 
the complaint, if there were reasons to support it, couldnt be looked into by this service 
under the rules in which we operate.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman