DRN-1193031
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has handled her 
account.
What happened
Ms P took out a loan with RBS and has since experienced financial difficulties. She raised a 
separate complaint with this service about the sale of her loan, which she believed should be 
written off.
Ms P says RBS agreed that it would stop charging interest on her loan while the complaint 
was with this service. She also says RBS agreed to stop contacting her about the loan until 
this service had completed its investigation, but she continued to receive correspondence on 
numerous occasions.
RBS was unable to find the call where Ms P says she was told the interest on her loan would 
be stopped but says it has no reason to doubt her version of events. And it says if she was 
told that, it would have been incorrect as the only way interest on her loan can be stopped 
on this occasion is for the loan to be defaulted. Nevertheless, it had refunded around £1,000 
of interest that was added to the loan. RBS has also acknowledged that it contacted Ms P on 
several occasions when it shouldnt have done so it has paid her a total of £400 
compensation for all the errors its made in handling her account.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that RBS had made 
several mistakes, but the interest refund and £400 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Ms P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
As a service, we wouldnt usually ask a business to stop interest being added to a loan on 
the basis that a consumer has made a complaint to us, although we could tell a business to 
refund interest if we thought it had made an error. In this case, Ms P says she was told 
interest would be stopped while we were looking into what had happened on a separate 
case. And while RBS has been unable to find the call where she was told that, I have no 
reason to doubt what Ms P has told us.
RBS has confirmed that the information Ms P received was incorrect. As thats the case, I 
think RBS should have considered the impact that incorrect information had on Ms P and 
compensated her for that  but I wouldnt have expected it to waive interest on the basis of 
that incorrect information. But in this case RBS has refunded around £1,000 of interest that 
was added to the loan. So the steps it took to put things right were more than I would have 
recommended.I can see that RBS stopped refunding the interest some months ago and that it has been 
accruing since. But as Ive explained, I dont think RBS needed to stop applying the 
contractual interest to the loan at any point, so it follows that I dont think it made a mistake 
in not refunding the most recent interest.
There is no dispute that RBS has made repeated mistakes in contacting Ms P after telling 
her that it wouldnt. And Ms P has explained that this has caused a great deal of stress and 
has impacted her medical condition. I was sorry to hear that was the case. Unfortunately 
RBS cant change the mistakes that were made, and no amount of compensation can 
change the stress that was caused by RBS. But I have taken everything into account and 
considered whether I think the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Ms P was enough  and I think it was.
RBS has always acknowledged the errors that were made and corrected the information 
given to Ms P when its agents incorrectly contacted her. And Ms P was aware of the 
situation with this service throughout the complaint  and so knew that the true position was 
that we were still considering things. So while I dont doubt that the whole situation has been 
stressful for Ms P, I think the £400 compensation RBS has already paid her is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I note that Ms P has said she believes the loan should be written off due to the ongoing 
mistakes RBS is making and the stress that is causing her. But as I have explained, I think 
RBS has already done enough to put things right. Going forward, RBS will need to speak to 
Ms P about the outstanding debt but Ms P can choose to do this through a third party  
either an individual or a professional debt organisation  if she chooses to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman