DRN-4300441
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with him when he 
sought to raise a dispute over transactions on his current account.
What happened
Mr O contacted Barclays because he wanted to raise a dispute over payments made to a 
third party betting website A. He became unhappy with the way in which Barclays 
representative was dealing with his request. He considered the callhandler, and the manager 
to whom his concerns were escalated, were rude and unwilling to assist with the dispute.
The bank raised a chargeback claim on Mr Os behalf, but A defended the claim. Barclays 
wrote to Mr O seeking further information to support his claim, but this wasnt forthcoming 
and the bank closed the dispute. Mr O feels the bank acted unfairly in doing so, and failed to 
ask appropriate questions of A when dealing with the claim. He adds he explained to 
Barclays about his medical condition and the bank agreed to give him more time to respond.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Barclays had dealt with Mr Os claim unfairly. It had 
raised the claim for Mr O, and the timescales for him to respond were set by the card 
scheme rather than by the bank. The investigator was able to listen to some  though not all 
 of the calls between Mr O and the bank, and didnt think they showed the banks staff had 
been rude or acted inappropriately. The investigator noted the missing call, which had been 
between Mr O and a Barclays manager, was made on a mobile phone and wasnt recorded. 
Mr O didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious of the health concerns Mr O has mentioned both to the bank and in his initial 
contact with us. I appreciate the difficulties these cause him, and its not my intention to 
upset him further. However, having considered all thats been said and provided, Im not 
going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive heard nothing in the calls Ive been able to listen to between 
Barclays and Mr O to support the complaint that the banks representatives were rude to 
him, or that they dealt with his call inappropriately.
In particular, the representative with whom Mr O initially spoke to raise his dispute was both 
polite and patient in trying to explain to Mr O why she needed him to provide further 
information to progress a chargeback claim. I accept Mr O might have interpreted things 
differently, but I find no reason to criticise the way in which the bank dealt with Mr Os calls.
Based on some of Mr Os comments, it might be helpful if I explain a little more about how 
the chargeback process works. In order for a claim to be raised, it is not enough for a 
cardholder to say they are in dispute with a merchant. The bank needs to ensure that the 
reason for the dispute is one covered under the card scheme rules. Once this is established, 
the banks role is to submit the information it has received from the cardholder and receive 
the response (if any) from the merchants bank. It is not part of Barclays role to ask 
questions of the merchant, as Mr O appears to believe.
As far as I can see, Barclays did all Id expect it to do in relation to Mr Os dispute with A. 
Mr O wasnt disputing participating in the transactions. He confirmed he did so in his initial 
telephone call. So Barclays asked him to provide further information  beyond merely saying 
he was in dispute with A  to see if his claim met one or more of the chargeback reasons in 
the card scheme rules.
Once Barclays had sufficient information to raise the claim, it did so. It promptly informed Mr 
O when it received As response. And it asked him for any further information in support of 
his claim, setting out the timescale for this to be provided. I understand Mr Os ability to 
respond within the timescale given was affected by his health situation. Barclays gave Mr O 
as much time as it was able under the card scheme rules. I dont find it acted incorrectly or 
unfairly in the way it handled Mr Os chargeback claim.
Im conscious Mr O has questioned the banks use of a mobile phone to call him, which he 
believes may be in breach of banking regulation. The use of mobile phones to call 
consumers isnt prohibited by general banking or data protection regulation. But there are 
some aspects of smartphone or other mobile device use that can make them subject to 
security compromise. So I can see why its important to Mr O to feel secure in this respect. I 
havent seen anything that leads me to think the fact Mr O was called from a mobile device 
put his personal data at risk of compromise. I hope this at least gives him some reassurance.
Although the call content doesnt directly impact on the outcome of Mr Os chargeback claim, 
the fact it was made using a mobile device does mean that Ive been unable to listen to that 
particular call between Mr O and the Barclays manager. I can understand this might be 
frustrating to Mr O, but in the absence of a recording or transcript, Im not persuaded it would 
be reasonable to conclude that he was treated unfairly in or as a result of that call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman