DRN-3145857
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) valued his vehicle 
and with their handling of the claim.
  
What happened
Mr B purchased comprehensive motor insurance through Admiral which commenced on 
13 May 2021. On the 30 June 2021 Mr B was involved in a car accident with another vehicle. 
Admiral arranged for an inspection of the vehicle, which determined it was uneconomical to 
repair. So, Admiral looked to settle the claim via a cash settlement based on the vehicles 
market value at the time of the incident.
Admiral made a few offers before finalising their offer at £11,404 which was subject to an 
excess deduction of £900. They sent Mr B a cheque for the remaining £10,504.
Mr B was unhappy with this as he believed the vehicle had been undervalued. He asked for 
evidence to support the offer such as greater clarity on how the figures had been obtained 
as well as requesting a copy of the engineers report. He was also unhappy he hadnt been 
consulted in relation to the categorisation of the vehicle and raised several points about the 
overall handling of the claim.
Admiral responded to Mr Bs concerns and remained satisfied with their final offer. They 
accepted some customer service errors were made and offered £100 compensation as well 
as an apology. 
Mr B brought his concerns to this service, via a representative, and provided an independent 
pre accident valuation of the vehicle. Having considered this and all the information, our 
investigator felt Admiral had undervalued the vehicle and that a fairer way to resolve it was 
to take an average of three well known trading guides totalling £12,420. He also said the 
£100 for the poor service was fair and reasonable.
As Mr B remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information, Ive only referred to what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint. 
The terms and conditions of the policy outline that Admiral will decide how to settle a claim. 
They can either repair the vehicle or pay a cash sum to replace it. It also says:
If we give you a cash  sum,  the most  we will pay is the market  value  of the 
vehicle.  A decision will be made based on the garage/engineer's recommendation.
The terms also explain what is meant by market value. It says:
The  cost of replacing  your vehicle,  with one of a similar  make,  model,  year,  
mileage  and condition  based  on market  prices  immediately  before  the loss 
happened.  Use of the term 'market'  refers  to where  your vehicle  was purchased  
This value  is based  on research  from  industry  recognised  motor  trade  guides.
Following the engineers inspection Admiral decided the vehicle was beyond economical 
repair and settled the claim via cash settlement. Admiral say they relied on two motor trade 
guides to come to their final settlement of £11,404.
Our service doesnt value vehicles, instead we check to see the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use 
relevant trade guides, as well as considering other information such as adverts. But we tend 
to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices.
Our investigator used the same two guides that Admiral had checked as well as a third guide 
to see if a fair valuation had been made. Having considered this he found, based on an 
average of the three guides, that Admirals final offer wasnt fair and asked them to pay an 
additional £1,016 to bring the settlement to £12,420.
Admiral agreed but Mr Bs representative felt the settlement for the vehicle should be more 
in the region of between £12,986 - £13,500 which appears to be based on the independent 
report Mr B obtained and the guide prices.
Whilst I appreciate why Mr Bs representative feels the market value should be at the top 
end of the guide valuations, all three valuations differed from each other by at least £485.
Ive checked the trade guides for the same make, model and specification of Mr Bs car at 
the time of the accident. And considered the independent report provided by Mr B which 
valued the vehicle at £12,850 at the time of the accident. I think taking an average of the 
three guides, one of which was higher than the independent valuation, is fair and reasonable 
as its a more reflective market value of the vehicle at the time of the accident. 
So, I agree that Admiral should pay an additional £1,016 to bring the total settlement to 
£12,420.
I understand Mr Bs representatives feeling that had Admiral fairly valued the vehicle at the 
time of the accident and come to this figure. Its likely they would have found a vehicle as a 
replacement. But the markets have since increased which makes it harder now. Whilst I 
sympathise with this, Admiral had paid the settlement within a reasonable time and Mr B 
couldve used that money to purchase a vehicle, although I realise, he may have needed to 
top it up. 
Ive determined Admirals settlement wasnt fair and they should pay the additional amount 
to bring it in line with the market value, they should also add 8% per annum simple interest 
to this to make up for the time Mr B was without this money.  Effectively putting him back in 
the position he should have been in had Admiral offered a fair market value at the time of the 
claim.
ServiceIts clear the service provided wasnt at the level it should have been, and Admiral have 
acknowledged this in relation to some of the concerns Mr B raised. Mr B raised several 
points which I have taken account of, but Ive only referred to those I feel most relevant to 
the outcome reached.
One of the main things Mr B was unhappy about was the lack of transparency and the 
concern that Admiral hadnt been fair when settling the claim.
I can see Mr B and his representative had asked on several occasions for greater clarity on 
Admirals valuation, and I note the valuations provided had changed during the claim. After 
some time, copies of the guide valuations were sent to Mr B but I can see this was after 
multiple requests. 
Its understandable that by this point Mr B had lost faith as it wasnt clear to him how the 
valuations had been reached. And I can understand why Mr B wanted to see copies of the 
guides. I understand that some information is deemed commercially sensitive but I think 
Admiral should have provided a more customer friendly version at the time it was requested.  
Mr B had also asked for a copy of the engineers report but was given conflicting information. 
First suggesting the report couldnt be provided and then that there wasnt a report to share. 
Eventually the engineers estimate was shared with Mr B and Admiral have apologised for 
the inconvenience caused.
Mr B was also unhappy he was told the vehicle was beyond economical repair but had since 
been told it was deemed a category S. And that this decision hadnt been discussed with 
him. Admirals terms outline that they will decide how to settle a claim and it is based on the 
engineers recommendation so they didnt need to discuss this with Mr B as it isnt open for 
negotiation. But the decision needs to be reasonable.
Mr Bs representative has pointed out that they were told an engineers report doesnt exist. I 
have seen an estimate of costs to repair the vehicle and I understand this is what Admiral 
used to determine the vehicle was uneconomical to repair. 
Admiral have advised their process is to inform customers of a total loss as soon as it has 
been determined. And they wouldnt expect the category of loss to be outlined in 
correspondence. 
I appreciate the different categories may have been confusing, Im pleased to see that 
Admiral explained why they werent looking to repair the vehicle, although I think they could 
have been clearer about this sooner.
Mr B had also made Admiral aware that he wanted to collect the personal number plates 
from his vehicle. He had started the process with the driving agency but there were some 
delays. I can see Admiral were aware of this and had made notes on their case file, but a 
letter was sent to Mr B telling him they would dispose of the vehicle if the plates werent 
collected by a specified time. Admiral have acknowledged the letter was an error and said 
they resolved it as soon as they became aware.
I also note Mr Bs representative requested email correspondence as opposed to contact 
through the customer portal. From what I can see Admiral communicated through various 
mediums. And whilst I recognise the benefits of communicating through a customer portal, I 
think Admiral should have answered this request even if it was just to say why they wanted 
to continue communication through the portal.When Mr Bs representative asked about Admirals complaints procedure, he said they 
werent willing to discuss it and instead just sent their final response letter. I can understand 
why Mr B feels this didnt answer his request. Admiral have explained they cant delay a 
claim and initiating the complaints process at that time meant Mr B received escalation 
details sooner. This doesnt seem unreasonable given that Admiral felt the complaint wasnt 
going to change the outcome reached regarding the valuation. However, Admiral could have 
still explained their process or directed Mr B to where he could find it.
I can see that Mr B and his representative have put a lot of time and effort into trying to 
resolve the claim. Admirals service hasnt been at the level it should have been and I dont 
underestimate the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I think its important to explain that our role is to bring complaints to a fair and reasonable 
resolution. Were not a regulator and any award of compensation we make isnt intended to 
punish the financial business. 
Sometimes mistakes do happen and inevitably this may cause the consumer distress and 
inconvenience. This doesnt mean the consumer must be compensated in all circumstances. 
Instead, wed look at the impact any errors had on the consumer.
Having done so, I think the £100 Admiral have offered for the poor service along with their 
apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because the majority of the 
administration has been handled by Mr Bs representative. Im aware this has taken a lot of 
his time but as he isnt Admirals customer, I cant consider the impact on him. 
But I do recognise the distress and inconvenience this inevitably had on Mr B. And I think 
£100 fairly reflects the impact of the mistakes made. Im aware Admiral have already sent a 
cheque to Mr B for this amount, but he hasnt cashed it.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited should:
Pay Mr B a further £1,016, adding 8% per annum simple interest from the date it 
made its interim payment to Mr B to the date of the further payment.
Pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if he hasnt already 
cashed the cheque for £100 and no longer has it. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman