DRN-1899447
The complaint
Mr W complains that when his car was stolen and suffered damage, and he made a claim 
against Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) as insurer under his motor insurance 
policy, Calpe:
didnt accept his claim and arrange for his car to be repaired; and
charged him for investigating his claim.
He is assisted in bringing this complaint by his sister, Ms W.
What happened
In April 2019, three men burst into a house where Mr W was, snatched his car keys, and 
made off with his car. Mr W reported the theft to the police. The car was found shortly 
afterwards, and recovered to a storage site in the locality.
Calpe arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer, who reported that:
the car was in poor condition for its age and type;
there was evidence of extensive previous collision damage, which had been poorly 
repaired;
the keys were missing and keys and locks would have to be replaced. There was 
also evidence of recent light collision damage to the rear of the car. The engineer 
estimated the cost of replacing the keys and locks, and repairing this damage, at 
£1,748.57 (including VAT);
the engineer said that in view of the general poor condition he estimated the pre-
accident value of the car at approximately £5,000.
It seems Calpe arranged a second engineers report, but it isnt clear what this said. Mr Ws 
policy contained an excess of £3,000. As the repair costs were apparently less than this 
amount, Calpe said it wouldnt get further involved. It also sent Mr W an invoice for 
£1,107.40, which it said he owed as part of the uninsured excess under the policy. 
Mr W complained to Calpe. He said the engineers reports were incorrect, and his car wasnt 
in poor condition when it was stolen. Calpe didnt accept his complaint. It said it stood by 
what its engineers had said. But if Mr W wished to instruct his own engineer to examine the 
car, at his own expense, it would consider his findings and review its own costings. It said 
the £1,107.40 was due to it under the excess provisions of the policy.
Mr W didnt accept what Calpe said and complained to us. He said his car hadnt been 
repaired or returned to him. He believed it had suffered extensive damage while in storage. 
He mentioned to our investigator that he had an excess protection policy with another 
insurance company to cover the whole of his £3,000 excess. He told the investigator he had 
spoken to the other insurer, who asked him not to lodge a claim unless it was for an amount 
exceeding £3,000.
In May 2020, our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said 
Calpe had failed to respond to numerous requests he had made for further information, 
including:
a copy of the second engineers report Calpe said it had commissioned;
a copy of the letter it sent to Mr W asking him to pay £1,107.40; and
a breakdown of how this was arrived at and was due from Mr W.
The investigators recommendations were as follows:
Repairs
He said that as the first engineer instructed by Calpe was independent, he was inclined to 
accept his findings. So he accepted that the value of the damage caused by the theft was 
£1,748.57. Under his policy with Calpe Mr W had a £3,000 excess, which was shown on his 
policy schedule. Although Mr W had an excess protection policy, this was with a separate 
insurance company. So the investigator thought Calpe hadnt done anything wrong in not 
taking it into account when it declined Mr Ws claim.
Investigation Costs
Calpe hadnt responded to his request for a breakdown of the £1,107.40 it was claiming from 
Mr W. So the investigator thought this must relate to its investigation costs. He thought these 
were part and parcel of the cost of providing insurance, and so it was unfair to ask Mr W to 
pay these costs.
He thought this also applied to any storage costs included in this figure up to the date when 
they were claimed by Calpe. He said this even though Calpes policy booklet said it didnt 
provide cover in respect of storage charges.
Ongoing storage
The investigator said it wasnt clear if further storage charges had accrued, and were 
continuing to arise, after the claim for £1,107.40 was made. It wasnt clear why Mr Ws car 
hadnt been released to him. He could only assume it was because the amount Calpe was 
claiming hadnt been paid. So he thought Calpe should be liable for all such further storage 
charges.
Further damage to Mr Ws car
Mr W said he hadnt seen his car since it was collected in late April 2019. From what the 
storage company had told him, he thought his car had suffered further damage while Calpe 
was refusing to release it to him. The investigator thought if this was the case Calpe should 
be responsible for such further damage.
Redress
To compensate Mr W, the investigator recommended that Calpe should:1. no longer seek to recover the £1,107.40 from Mr W, and confirm in writing to him that 
it was no longer seeking payment of this;
2. settle all costs associated with the storage of Mr Ws car;
3. reconsider Mr Ws claim on the basis of the condition of his car as it now was (not 
just as the first engineer described having seen it). This condition should be 
compared with the condition of the car immediately before the claim arose, which the 
first engineer assessed as then having a value of approximately £5,000; and
4. pay Mr W a further £500 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had 
suffered.
Calpe didnt respond to the investigators recommendations. Ms W responded to say, in 
summary, that:
Mr W and Ms W considered there was more damage to the car caused by the theft 
than was listed in the engineers reports  and the two engineers reports conflicted 
with one another;
they made Calpe aware of the excess insurance Mr W had, and thought total repair 
cost of the theft damage would easily have exceeded £3,000;
they had asked to view the car with Calpes engineers and point out all the damage 
caused by the theft. In spite of this being agreed by Calpe at one point, it was later 
rejected;
Mr W suffered from a disability, which made him vulnerable. Although Ms W had 
made Calpe aware of this it had made no allowance for it; and
the loss of his car had had a physical, emotional and financial impact on Mr W and 
his family, which wasnt recognised by the suggested compensation.
The investigator did make clear to Mr W that any settlement by Calpe under its policy would 
be subject to the policy excess of £3,000. So he thought it would be worthwhile for Mr W to 
contact the separate insurer under the excess policy about any proposed settlement to see 
what it would be willing to do under the excess policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I have been handicapped by the failure of Calpe to provide the 
information he requested, or to respond to his earlier view. So I need to decide what 
happened on the balance of probabilities.
Im also conscious that 18 months have elapsed since Mr Ws car was stolen, since when he 
has been without his car. So I dont want to cause any further delay. Ill deal with the various 
aspects of the complaint under the same headings as the investigator used.
Repairs
The extent of damage caused by the theft is disputed. The only expert evidence Ive seen is 
the report of the first engineer. He described finding damage which had been caused some 
time before the theft and had been poorly repaired, and which reduced the value of the car 
before the theft. Calpe gave Mr W the opportunity of having his own engineer inspect and report on the car, 
and said it would reconsider its findings in the light of such a report. But Mr W didnt take up 
this offer. Although Mr W and Ms W say more damage was caused by the theft than was 
mentioned in the first engineers report, they havent produced anything to support this.
On balance I accept the first engineers report as a fair summary of the damage caused by 
the theft, and his valuation of £5,000 as a fair estimate of the pre-theft value of the car. Mr 
Ws excess protection policy was with a different insurance company. So I dont think Calpe 
did anything wrong in declining the claim as it was for less than the excess on its policy.
Investigation and storage costs
On the information I have, it isnt clear what the £1,107.40 Calpe charged Mr W for related 
to. On that basis alone I would say that Calpe shouldnt seek any longer to charge it. If it 
relates to investigation and storage costs while Calpe decides whether to meet its own 
customers claim, I agree with the investigator that this seems an unfair charge which Calpe 
shouldnt seek to recover.
Further damage to Mr Ws car
It seems that the car has suffered further damage while in storage since the theft, and that it 
was held there because Mr W wouldnt pay Calpes invoice. On this basis I agree Calpe 
should be responsible for any such further damage.
Redress
I agree that the redress the investigator suggested is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ms W says Calpe was aware of Mr Ws vulnerability but didnt make any 
allowance for this. However, I havent seen any evidence that Calpe was aware of this and 
ignored it. So I think the compensation which the investigator has suggested is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I think Calpe should take the actions, and pay Mr W the money, set out in my final decision 
below.
However, as the investigator made clear, any settlement by Calpe under its policy will be 
subject to the policy excess of £3,000. So Mr W will need to contact the separate insurer 
under the excess policy about any settlement provided by Calpe to see what the separate 
insurer will be willing to do under the excess policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
1. no longer seek to recover the £1,107.40 from Mr W, and confirm in writing to him that 
it is no longer seeking payment of this;
2. settle at its own cost all charges associated with the storage of Mr Ws car;
3. reconsider Mr Ws claim on the basis of the condition of his car as it now is (not just 
as the first engineer described having seen it). This condition should be compared with the condition of the car immediately before the claim arose, the value of which I 
place at £5,000 in accordance with the estimate of the first engineer; and
4. pay Mr W a further £500 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman