DRN-4164260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had home insurance with AXA. In February 2023 they made a claim after 
discovering an escape of water in their bathroom. AXA assessed the damage through a 
video call and subsequently declined the claim. It said the damage had happened gradually 
over time and this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M complained but AXA maintained its position on the claim, so they brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said the report from AXAs 
desktop assessor showed evidence that the damage had been caused by the sealant failing 
and that it was gradual. So AXA had acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and provided a report from a plumber who had inspected the leak 
before AXA. They said that showed the damage had happened suddenly. However our 
investigator said the report provided further proof that the damage had happened gradually 
and it didnt change his outcome. For this reason, Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
In the policy under General Exclusions it states the following isnt covered: Loss or 
damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens 
gradually.
Under the cover for an escape of water the policy further states that the following 
cause isnt covered: by the inadequacy or absence of appropriate sealant or grout; 
AXA has provided photos and a report from its expert that carried out a video 
assessment of the issue. In these it shows fairly extensive damage to the tiles, the 
timber under the floor and comments on damage to a wall in the adjacent room. The 
assessor also comments that the wall has been painted a number of times to cover 
up the water damage. The assessors comments conclude that the sealant has 
significant damage that would have happened over time. 
Based on this assessment, the two exclusions I have quoted above would fairly 
apply. As the damage happened over time and was due to issues with the sealant. 
Ive also considered the report provided by Mr and Mrs M. This states: The leaks 
from shower and bath seals have caused a lot of water damage and mould issues 
which I have advised PH to call his building insurance to get rectified ASAP.. So this 
report supports the cause of the damage being the sealant.
The report also indicates there is significant damage to various areas of the room 
and adjacent room and that mould issues have developed. It takes some time for a 
leak to spread and longer still for mould to develop. I therefore conclude that Mr and 
Mrs Ms report further supports that the damage has happened gradually.
Mr and Mrs M have said that as the leak was hidden, they wouldnt have known 
about it, even if it was gradual. However some of the damage would have been 
visible  such as the water stains to the adjacent room which had been repainted on 
a number of occasions. So I think he would have had reason to know that there was 
an issue. 
Finally, I note what Mr M has said about his disabilities and the fact he is vulnerable. I 
understand why this would have made the claim much harder for him to deal with 
and that it makes it more challenging for him to stay on top of maintenance in his 
home and I sympathise with his position. AXA has noted Mr Ms disability and 
considered this when communicating with him and assessing the claim. 
However as Ive seen two reports that persuade me the damage from the leak would 
have been visible before the claim and that it was caused by poor sealant, and these 
are both excluded under the policy, I cant say AXA has acted unfairly by declining 
the claim in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs M s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr and 
Mrs M  to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman