DRN-3534640
The complaint
Mr D complains that the loan he had from Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat.co.uk) 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr D borrowed £400 from Cashfloat on 15 April 2021. The loan was to be repaid by three 
monthly instalments, the largest of which was £176.80. The final instalment was due on 25 
June 2021 and Mr D repaid it on time.
Mr D says he had other short-term loans at the time and the additional lending caused him 
financial hardship.
Cashfloat says it conducted a full affordability and creditworthiness assessment. It says that, 
based on Mr Ds declared income and expenditure, his living arrangements and its own 
checks, it found the repayments were affordable to Mr D. Cashfloat notes that Mr D applied 
for a further loan but this application was declined.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Mr D was struggling to manage his money.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that the adjudicator had only considered information 
from Cashfloat. He says he was overdrawn at the time of the lending and this continued for 
the duration of the loan. Mr D says that his financial situation had not been fully reviewed 
and there were delays from this service in providing an outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
When Mr D applied for his loan, I can see Cashfloat asked him about his income and 
expenditure and confirmed his living arrangements. It also verified his income with a payslip 
and checked his expenditure against statistical averages for someone in similar 
circumstances. Im satisfied these checks went far enough in this case because:
This was Mr Ds first loan with Cashfloat;
The repayments were around 6% of his income;
His declared expenditure appeared reasonable;
As the affordability calculation showed Mr D had over £1,200 of disposable income, I find 
Cashfloat made a fair lending decision.I acknowledge Mr D says he was overdrawn at the time but having other credit commitments 
does not make further lending unaffordable. I also accept that Mr Ds financial situation was 
not fully reviewed. This is because Cashfloat is expected to carry out checks that are 
proportionate to the circumstances of the lending. In this case, this was a small loan 
compared with Mr Ds income and was not part of a longer lending chain so I was satisfied 
its checks were reasonable.
Nevertheless, I do accept that there were delays in processing Mr Ds complaint and for that 
I apologise.
In summary, I dont consider Cashfloat did anything wrong by approving the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman