DRN-2688922
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complain that Countrywide Assured Plc declined their claim because the 
policy ended prior to Mr B passing away. They thought the cover was in place for life, and 
say it wasnt made clear to them it was for a fixed term of 17 years. And they think 
Countrywide amended the policy end date without their agreement. 
The estate of Mr B is represented by Mrs B. so for ease Ill refer to Mrs B throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
Mrs B took out fixed term life cover for Mr B in 2003. Mr B was the policyholder and the life 
assured. In November 2019 Countrywide wrote to Mr B to say his policy was due to expire 
on 17 January 2020. Mr B sadly passed away in March 2020. Mrs B contacted Countrywide 
about claiming on the policy at which point she discovered the policy had ended. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said it was standard 
procedure for Countrywide to let customers know when a policy was due to come to an end 
 and he was satisfied Mr B had been notified as such. Our investigator also found that the 
documents provided in 2003 made it clear the policy was for a fixed term only  despite 
there being no specific reference to the term of 17 years. 
Mrs B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She said it was 
for Countrywide to prove the policy had a fixed term of 17 years. And if it couldnt do so, we 
should uphold the complaint and Countrywide should pay the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to offer my condolences to Mrs B and her family for the loss of her 
husband. And assure her that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an 
incredibly difficult time for the family, and I dont want to add to their distress. But as Ill go on 
to explain, I dont think Countrywide treated them unfairly.  
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Mrs B and Countrywide have provided  and 
Id like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
I should also explain that Countywide wasnt responsible for selling the policy to Mrs B. So, 
my review only focuses on Countrywides administration of the policy. If Mrs B believes the 
policy was mis-sold or that the terms of the policy werent properly explained, then she may 
wish to pursue that with the third party who sold it. 
Unfortunately, Ive not seen a copy of the policy schedule which wouldve confirmed the end 
date of Mr Bs policy. And I can understand Mrs Bs point about the significance of this 
document. But where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened - in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its clear on the proposal document signed by Mr B in 2003 that this was a fixed term life 
policy starting on 17 January 2003. The terms and conditions of the policy also make it clear 
the policy provided cover for the period specified on the policy schedule  so in other words 
 the policy wasnt in place indefinitely. And the letter Countrywide sent to Mr B in November 
2019 confirmed this to be the case. 
I appreciate that we dont have the policy schedule which wouldve confirmed beyond doubt 
when the policy was due to end. But given the documentation we do have, and the wider 
circumstances that suggests to me Mr Bs option to have cover for 17 years provided cover 
until retirement age (65), leads me to conclude that on balance, its more likely than not the 
policy had a fixed term of 17 years. 
Mrs B thinks a phone call Mr B had with Countrywide in October 2019 prompted them to 
amend the end date of his policy and send the November 2019 letter. Ive not been able to 
listen to the call Mr B had with Countrywide, and so dont know what discussions took place. 
But I dont doubt it was Mr Bs intention to make sure his affairs were in order. The letter 
Countryside sent to Mr B in November 2019 was a routine letter sent out when a policy is 
due to come to an end. So, whilst I can understand why Mrs B thinks there was a link 
between the phone call and the letter, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this was the 
case, or that it was the phone call that prompted Countrywide to amend the policy end date. 
I know Mrs B feels let down by Countrywide and I dont doubt that she and Mr B took the 
policy out in good faith and with a specific aim in mind. But taking everything into account, I 
dont think Countrywide has done anything wrong or treated Mrs B unfairly. So, I wont be 
asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman