DRN-4055947
The complaint
Mr and Ms F complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim under their buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva includes reference to respective agents or representatives. Ill largely 
refer to Ms F throughout as she has led the complaint with this Service.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, in light of the extensive 
correspondence Ive summarised events.
In March 2019 Ms F made a claim on her Aviva home insurance policy and it 
appointed agents to investigate the claim. 
Ms F says across the first twelve months, several agents attended and carried out 
works that werent aligned and which failed to progress the issue at a reasonable 
speed or diagnose the problem. 
Aviva acknowledged this and apologised for delays and the service provided and 
awarded £700 in compensation. Across the following months, Ms F raised further 
concerns about Avivas agents, highlighting delays. It again acknowledged delays 
and said it would agree to cover certain uninsured works given its own delays. 
The cause of the subsidence was diagnosed, and necessary drain repairs were 
completed in October 2020. A period of monitoring followed, and in June 2021 Aviva 
said its results showed stability had been achieved.
In October 2021 Aviva wrote again, issuing a final response letter. It said there had 
been avoidable delays across the life of the claim and agreed it shouldve been more 
proactive, and that there was inadequate communication and minimal project 
management on its part which led to inadequate control of the claim. It offered a 
further £1,000 in compensation for mistakes it made saying in total, £1,700 was fair 
compensation.
Ms F disagreed, saying:
oThe compensation offered was insulting and complained about its handling of 
the complaint. She said she was seeking a six-figure compensatory sum for 
the time spent on the claim. She outlined examples of Avivas mistakes and 
the impact on her and her partner. And said it should award for the stress, 
noise, impact on her and her partners health, as well as a missed trip abroad 
while she had to supervise Avivas agents amongst other things.
oShe said additional costs needed to be considered, including heating bills, 
and aggravation with her neighbour that led to damp proof work for a party 
wall (at £792).
oShe said Aviva should also compensate her for rising material costs for a 
proposed extension to the property. 
In December 2021 Aviva responded further, saying: 
oIt accepted its handling of the claim fell below the standards it expected. And 
that a delay will have increased the distress and inconvenience caused.
oIt agreed there were opportunities to progress matters where it hadnt but said 
there were difficulties with the national lockdown as well as restricted access, 
party wall requirements, and various licences to obtain. 
oWhile it vetted its agents, it agreed their work on this claim fell below its 
standards. And it agreed communication couldve been better, but it said this 
improved once it took the matter in-house.
oIt would not grant further compensation to account for time Ms F spent 
dealing with the claim. And it said it had already considered the impact on Ms 
Fs wellbeing and day to day inconvenience.
oIt would reconsider costs related to a damp proof course to a party wall 
(£792), upon further information being provided. But said no works of this 
nature were specified in the schedule. It would also consider further heating 
costs upon receipt of evidence. As well as any additional costs of materials 
upon sight of copies of building contractual documents, including tender 
documents and evidence of inflationary impacts. 
A further back and forth took place. Ive summarised the points put forward by Ms F. 
oShe reiterated the compensation it awarded was unsuitable, particularly in 
light of Avivas profits and revenue. She described the impact of its handling 
on her and Mr F and their involvement in the claim.
oShe described ongoing costs and impact of living in the unrepaired home, 
including individuals dumping rubbish in her garden because of its condition. 
oShe provided a bill to Aviva for the time Ms F and her partner had spent 
dealing with the claim  to be paid to the company (Company C) that she and 
her partner runs and are directors of. This was for £150,000 plus VAT  made 
up of £100,000 plus VAT for management costs for Company C, and £50,000 
plus VAT for additional costs.
oShe said delays attributed to Covid-19 was not a fair excuse for Aviva to use 
as it couldve completed its works prior to this happening. And commentary 
about the matter being complicated due to number of licences to obtain was 
also unfair as this would be common for many homes.
oAvivas agent had committed criminal damage by removing bricks from their 
home without permission. 
oA second Party Wall agreement had been needed because of damage to 
relationship between Ms F and her neighbour.
oIt was unfair for Aviva to ask for evidence of heating increases and said Aviva 
would be likely to find reasons to not pay costs in any case. Similarly, Ms F 
could not provide increases in proposed works for an extension as she had 
not obtained quotes previously. 
oThere were problems with Ms Fs own builder  but these wouldnt have 
happened had the matter been resolved earlier.
In March 2022 Aviva wrote to Ms F again, saying:
oIt had no contractual or commercial relationship with Company C and did not 
agree to the costs sought, nor were management costs covered by the 
policy. It said Company Cs invoice was not sufficient to validate additional costs requested, and said the evidence needed to be in the format it had 
previously requested (such as surveyor invoices or bills from a utility 
supplier). It also said the additional costs sought included works outside of the 
scope of cover (including extension works) that it was not liable for.
oIt stood by its commentary that there were circumstances that made the 
matter more complex, even where it had caused delays, including the extent 
of the works required for the repair of the drainage system which required 
specialist repairs as well as the repairs needing to meet certain requirements 
and needing licences. 
oIt disagreed any criminal damage had taken place, saying the agent had 
removed bricks that displayed cracking damage and so these were removed 
and replaced as part of its reinstatement. 
Ms F brought her complaint to this Service. She reiterated a detailed history of the 
claim and her complaint points, and said she was seeking a massive compensation 
payment and for this Service to fine Aviva enough to ensure it would not treat other 
customers the same way. She also commented about wishing to have her front 
garden wall rebuilt differently to its pre-damage design but due to Avivas mistakes 
there wasnt time for this to happen. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. 
oThis Service was unable to fine or penalise a business for its mistakes.
oHe was satisfied the claim had been poorly handled and without effective 
management. He said this had caused substantial delays and Ms F had 
unfairly been required to step in to manage matters on numerous occasions.
oThe compensation awarded by Aviva, alongside carrying out trace and 
access work and other repairs not covered by the policy, was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
oAvivas offer to pay the increased heating bills during the claim was fair  and 
subject to Ms F providing evidence it had asked for previously.
oMs Fs invoice of £150,000 was not supported by evidence, so he didnt direct 
Aviva to cover this.
Ms F disagreed, saying Avivas award was unfair and was inadequate to dissuade it 
from treating other customers the same way. And she said Avivas agreement to 
cover any uninsured works was irrelevant.
Aviva also responded  it said the uninsured works it had completed (including 
investigation, materials, party wall notice costs, specialist labour, and line search, 
CCTV survey and report, testing and attendance) came in at a cost of £13,571.85. 
And asked for this Service to consider these costs alongside the £1,700 in 
compensation it had put forward. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The submissions provided to this Service from all parties are vast. Within this decision I 
wont be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of 
the informal nature of this Service.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint should 
be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats 
not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont consider it necessary to 
specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
Based on what Ive seen, there is no dispute that Avivas works have resolved the 
subsidence issue nor about its settlement of the matter covering the cost of carrying out the 
necessary works.
So, as I see it, the crux of this complaint concerns Avivas handling of the claim and the 
impact of any mistakes and delays. As well as additional costs that Ms F is seeking as 
consequential losses that fall outside of compensation.
Claims handling 
Under ICOBS 8.1 must handle claims promptly and fairly. And it must provide 
appropriate information on its progress.
Aviva has been clear across all of its communications to Ms F and to this Service that 
there have been various failings across the life of this claim. These range from 
delays, poor communication and a lack of handling and poor management on its part. 
And from its submissions, it appears this was recognised on many occasions by 
Aviva itself during the life of the claim.
Aviva has also put forward factors that it says elongated this claim, even taking into 
account its mistakes. This included need for specialists, need for various licences etc 
that Ms F is aware of. Ms F has said this should not be considered as a mitigating 
factor for Aviva as these matters will impact many homes. Ms F is right to say these 
are not novel issues, but I also agree that handling claims that require specialist work 
and obtaining appropriate licences are factors that will likely impact a claim. So, I 
have factored this into Avivas overall handling.
Ms F has also provided detailed accounts of mistakes by Aviva and its agents across 
the life of the claim. So, I dont think its necessary to recount all of these here. 
Suffice to say Ive reviewed everything thats happened in detail, and its clear to me 
that Aviva did not handle this matter promptly or fairly in line with its obligations.
Compensation and other costs
Ms F has described the impact of this claim on her and Mr F in detail. I do not doubt 
this claim has been a stressful and difficult time for them. And its clear to me that 
Avivas actions have exacerbated the stress that would be expected and common 
with a claim of this nature through its actions.
Ms F has sought costs of £100,000 plus VAT to account for the estimated thousand 
hours she says she and Mr F have spent dealing with the claim. She has calculated 
this at a sum of £100 per hour that she says is modest when looking at their usual 
billable rates. 
Aviva has said management costs are not covered by the policy. And Im in 
agreement this is the case. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Aviva to cover these costs outside of the policy terms.
Aviva has said it had no dealings with Company C. And I think this is right. Mr and 
Mrs F never carried out work in handling this claim on behalf of Company C as far as 
I can see (and what has been provided). So, it would be unclear to me why Aviva 
would compensate a third-party entity directly when Company C is not the 
policyholder here, nor has it been contracted to do any work for Aviva. When asked about evidencing the loss of business, Ms F has provided invoices that 
show Company Cs rates. But in her own words she has said she cannot prove the 
lost revenue to her business, but asked this Service to consider the impact of the 
hours spent handling it, and how this wouldve impacted her and Mr Fs brainspace 
during this time. And shes commented that lots of the handling they stepped in to do 
was during work time.
Ive thought about the impact of the time spent handling the claim on the part of Mr 
and Mrs F. And I dont doubt they have spent many hours managing things that Aviva 
shouldve been responsible for. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs F an hourly rate of £100 for an 
estimated period with no prior agreement with Aviva as they have suggested. 
Mr and Mrs F have also sought costs related to a party wall, as well as heating costs, 
and increases in building costs. Aviva has been clear it would reconsider these points 
upon receipt of appropriate evidence.
The invoice Ms F has presented from Company C also includes costs of £50,000 that 
I believe includes these above costs. This invoice includes brief detail touching on 
the stress and impact on their wellbeing, as well as:
oCosts created by the fact that the incompetence & delays of Aviva and its 
suppliers delayed by a year other building work, e.g., incremental heating 
costs, incremental materials costs, securing additional Party Wall agreement 
necessitated by behaviour of Aviva's suppliers.
oDealing with problems created by the fact that the incompetence & delays of 
Aviva and its suppliers delayed by a year other building work e.g., clearing 
trash, clearing slugs, having an unbeatable house. There are many other 
examples.
Again, it is unclear to me why Aviva would settle an invoice to Company C in this 
regard as it has no part in this claim. And I do not consider this to be more than an 
estimate on Mr and Mrs Fs part as to the costs they believe they have lost as it is not 
supported by any evidence (such as the utility bills Aviva has requested) or expert 
opinion (such as quotes on the proposed extension).
With regards to the party wall damp proof course, Ive been given no expert evidence 
that persuades me the works were necessary in line with the policy terms, so Im not 
going to direct Aviva to cover these costs.
I understand Ms F has said they had not previously sought costs of the proposed 
extension. And while I take into account their points about material costs, these will 
rise and fall, and here Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to direct Aviva to 
cover speculative costs based on the evidence theyve provided. I would continue to 
expect Aviva to reconsider these matters upon receipt of appropriate evidence. 
Aviva has also asked this Service to consider the extent of the uninsured works it has 
carried out (around £13,571.85) alongside the compensation offered/awarded. Ms F 
hasnt disputed these were carried out outside of the policy terms but has said she 
believes this to be irrelevant. But I disagree, and I think any works completed or costs 
covered outside of Avivas policy terms are relevant when thinking about whether it 
has done enough. 
So, this brings me to the compensation Aviva has agreed to pay Mr and Ms F. It has 
offered to pay £1,000 on top of the previous £700 paid. Taking into account 
everything that has happened and the impact of Avivas mistakes and poor handling 
on Mr and Mrs Fs wellbeing and the time theyve spent dealing with matters, Im 
satisfied such a sum is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.My final decision
For the above reasons, Im satisfied the offer of £1,000 Aviva Insurance Limited has already 
made (on top of previous compensation paid) is fair and reasonable. 
So, my decision is Aviva must pay Mr and Mrs F £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman