DRN-2847946
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was irresponsibly provided to him.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt 
uphold the complaint as she thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Mr S unfairly. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr S with a loan for £1,000.00 in March 2015. This loan had an APR 
of 47.9% and the total amount repayable of £1,593.59 was due to be repaid in 30 monthly 
instalments of £53.12. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided 
details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-
checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information 
showed Mr S could make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr S 
has said he was in financial difficulty and had borrowed these funds to repay rent arrears.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans was lending Mr S a relatively low amount 
and the monthly payments were low. In these circumstances, I think a more lighter touch 
check is more likely to have been proportionate. Likely Loans has also provided records 
indicating what the credit searches it carried out are likely to have shown at the time. And 
having considered that information, while I do accept that Mr S did go on to accrue a number 
of defaulted accounts, these all appear to have occurred from 2016 onwards.
I know that Mr S says his actual circumstances werent appear fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. For example, Ive seen 
that he said this loan was taken to clear rent arrears rather than debt consolidation as was 
recorded at the time of the application. Equally I accept that if Likely Loans had gone into the 
depth of checks Mr S now says it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it 
might have seen the full extent of Mr S difficulties and the reasons for this. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans was providing Mr S with a loan for a relatively small 
sum and with low monthly payments  especially when compared to Mr S income. Its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I 
dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of 
checks Mr S is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman