DRN-2461475
The complaint
Miss M complains about a decision Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), made to default her account with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The original default was registered in May 2015 and a court ordered the repayment of the full 
arrears. Im not able to review the decision of the court and in ordering the repayment of the 
debt I think its fair to say they accepted the account had been defaulted and terminated 
correctly.
This service has previously reviewed a complaint by Miss M about how BPF treated her 
when pursuing the debt through the courts. Im not looking at those issues again either as 
our rules prevent me from doing so.
But since that decision there have been further developments and Miss M says that BPF 
should therefore have removed the default they registered to her credit file.
I understand that the car was subsequently written off and Miss Ms insurer went into 
administration, so an insurance payment was not made to offset the debt she still had with 
BPF.
Miss M agreed a £1,200 payment with BPF in 2019 in full and final settlement of her debt 
with them and I understand shed like the default from 2015 removed.
The terms of Miss Ms agreement with BPF said that: 
If the vehicle is lost, stolen or destroyed or it is damaged and the insurer tells you the
damage cannot be repaired (it is a total loss) you must tell us immediately and
transfer all your rights under the insurance policy to us and you must arrange to pay
any insurance money to us as soon as possible. 
If the vehicle is a total loss and the insurer pays out on a total-loss basis, all your
remaining repayments under this agreement will become due and you must pay this
amount to us. We will use the insurance money to reduce the amount you owe us.
If the insurance money we receive is less than the total of the repayments you owe
under this agreement, you must pay us the difference.
Once you have paid us all the amounts due under this agreement, the agreement will
end.
So, I think its clear that it was Miss Ms responsibility to ensure any insurance payment was 
made to BPF and, in the absence of that payment, she would remain liable for the 
outstanding balance on the account.
In 2019 BPF accepted a payment, that was lower than the outstanding balance, in full and 
final settlement of the debt. They reported that as a partial settlement on Miss Ms credit file. 
I think they reported the payment correctly as Miss M didnt pay the full amount due on the 
account. BPF have a responsibility to ensure her account performance is reported accurately 
and I think thats what they have done. So, Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman