DRN-3698247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have unfairly 
charged them for the package bank account they held with it.
What happened
On 13 January 2017 Mr and Mrs Ws account changed to a Barclays account with Tech and 
Travel Packs which they paid a fee for. Before this Mr and Mrs W held an Additions account 
which they also paid a fee for.
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the fees, charges and information Barclays gave 
them since they opened the account in 1994. It has been explained to Mr and Mrs W that we 
are only able to consider their complaint from the time their account changed to the Barclays 
account with Tech and Travel Pack in January 2017.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint from the time their account 
was changed in January 2017 but didnt think it should be upheld. So, this complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide.
My decision will look at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint from the time it changed in January 2017 
only.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have said they were told they had to have a package bank account to keep 
their overdraft facility, and that if they downgraded their account to a free account their 
overdraft facility would be removed.
At the time Mr and Mrs Ws account was changed from an Additions account to a Barclays 
account with Tech and Travel Packs a sale did not take place. The decision to make the 
change was a commercial decision made by Barclays having reviewed the accounts it 
offered its customers at the time.
A decision was made by Barclays to no longer offer the Additions account. So, at the time 
customers with the Additions account were migrated to another account that most closely 
matched the benefits of the accounts they had previously held.
Banks can make changes to, or remove accounts they offer customers, but in circumstances 
such as these we would expect Barclays to give its customers reasonable notice of the 
change and to clearly outline the options available.
Barclays has provided evidence to support its view that the change was made fairly.
On 29 September 2016 Barclays sent Mr W a letter explaining the account was changing 
from an Additions account to a Barclays account with Tech and Travel Pack on 13 January 
2017.
The letter stated:
Whats not changing
Your sort code, account number, and any direct debits or standing orders wont change. 
Your debit card and overdraft limit, if you have one, will also remain the same but the fee-
free amount will not.
The letter also set out 4 options. The second of these options was:
If you decide you don't want these changes, let us know before 12 January 2017 that you 
want to change your account to a Barclays Bank Account with no Packs. By not opting for 
Tech Pack and Travel Pack, your account will still become a Barclays Bank Account  with 
no monthly account fee  but your insurance benefits will end. If you have an arranged 
overdraft, although your limit wont change, no part of your overdraft limit will be fee free.
The letter also highlighted the fee associated with the account and invited Mr W to get in 
touch to make any changes.
I think its clear from this letter that the change to Mr and Mrs Ws account would not result in 
the overdraft facility being removed and they had an option to have a free account keeping 
the overdraft facility they had previously. Albeit without the benefits offered by the package 
bank account.
On 20 January 2017 Barclays wrote to Mr W again it explained the account had been 
changed in line with the previous letter it had sent and again highlighted the associated fee 
and the benefits.
There were no calls made by Barclays to its customers about the decision to migrate the 
accounts, so I think this is likely the information provided to Mr and Mrs W around the time 
the change took place.
As Mr and Mrs W were given more than three months notice of the change to their account 
and the option to have a free account was also provided I think Barclays met its obligations 
to Mr and Mrs W and they would have known they didnt have to have a fee-paid account to 
keep their overdraft facility.
Mr and Mrs W have told us they were consistently told they would lose their overdraft facility 
if they didnt keep their package bank account. But I think this is unlikely, and to uphold their 
complaint for this reason I would need to see strong evidence they were given this 
information. Which I havent seen.
Mr and Mrs W have further complained that the cost of their package bank account 
increased over the time they had it. Again, similarly to when a bank decides to no longer 
offer an account, it can also change the applicable fees. But we would expect the bank to 
make these types of decisions clear, and to clearly outline the options available to its 
customers.  
Barclays wrote to Mr W on 16 May 2019 explaining the fee for the Tech Pack was changing 
from £12.50 to £14.50 from 1 July 2019. This gave Mr and Mrs W over a month to contact 
Barclays if they no longer wanted to continue with their account. 
The letter also stated:Tech Pack is optional and can be removed at any time. If you decide you no longer want 
Tech Pack on your account, youll need to call us on
With the above in mind I think Barclays again met its obligations to Mr and Mrs W giving 
them reasonable notice of the change.
Overall, I think Barclays has acted fairly and I dont think it needs to do anything to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman