DRN-3365408
The complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf of B, a limited company, that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse 
payments made as a result of a scam.
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs A received a voice message on her telephone purporting to be from 
HMRC. Mrs C called back and was informed that shed filled in her tax return incorrectly, and 
this resulted in an outstanding amount being owed. Mrs C was threatened with arrest and 
prosecution if she didnt comply with the Tax Inspectors instruction to make payment.
Mrs C checked the number she was speaking with the person on and this matched the 
department they claimed they were from.
Mrs C says she was in distress and terrified by the prospect of being arrested, so she 
complied and made the payments requested. Mrs C made the initial payment of £4,800 to 
the account details provided.
Meanwhile, the Tax Inspector claimed that theyd spoken to the judge panel and a further 
£12,000 would need to be paid for administration costs. Mrs C asked for some time to 
consider the issue but was informed that the offer was a one off and if it wasnt paid, the 
arrest and prosecution would go ahead. Mrs C says that she felt she had no choice and 
proceeded with the payment.
Mrs C was then informed that due to her being a risky taxpayer, shed need to pay three 
years in taxes amounting to £25,000. Mrs C paid this in two transfers of £12,500 as she was 
informed that the beneficiary solicitors could only accept a limited amount in each 
transaction. 
Unfortunately, it later transpired that Mrs C had fallen victim to a fraud and had sent the 
fraudsters a total of £41,800 from the business account in Bs name.
Mrs C complained to HBSC and it was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code); a voluntary code HSBC has signed up to and agreed to adhere to the 
terms of. The CRM Code is designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a 
scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that:
 
The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
Where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate.
After looking into Mrs Cs claim, it thought it could have done more to protect the account 
prior to the £4,800 and subsequent £12,000 payment. But it also felt Mrs C could have done 
more to carry out checks prior to making the payments. As such, it agreed to reimburse half 
of the first two payments, amounting to £8,400. It added that sufficient prevention measures 
were in place when making the last two payments of £12,500 each and again said that 
Mrs C could have done more checks prior to making the payment. It therefore decided not to 
reimburse either of these final two payments.
Mrs C was unhappy with HSBCs decision, so she came to our service for an independent 
assessment. An Investigator looked at the evidence provided by both parties but decided 
HSBC should have refunded more. The Investigator considered the complaint against the 
CRM Code, but found that HSBC couldnt demonstrate that Mrs C had ignored an effective 
warning regarding the payments made. Nor did she feel it could demonstrate that Mrs C 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in relation to the first two payments. She did 
however feel that this could be demonstrated on the final two payments.
As such, the Investigator recommended that HSBC refund B the remaining 50% of the first 
two payments, and 50% of the final two payments, including interest.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It continued to defend its position that it 
provided an effective warning and that Mrs C didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
she was legitimately corresponding with, and making payments to, HMRC throughout.
As HSBC has disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been 
passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded B the full amount of 
the first two payments, and 50% of the final two payments made. Im not persuaded 
that HSBC has been able to demonstrate the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in some of the payments where it has not refunded.
I understand HSBC has already refunded B 50% of the loss for the first two 
transactions made (£8,400). HSBC should therefore reimburse the remaining 50% 
from the first two payments (£8,400) and 50% of the final two payments (£12,500).
The money was taken from Bs business account. Its not clear how this would have 
been used if HSBC had refunded it when it ought reasonable to have done. So it 
should pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple annum from 
the date it should have refunded this under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
Ive carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mrs C has a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. And Ive taken into consideration the 
conversations and warnings HSBC had with Mrs C prior to the final two payments being 
made. Having done so, they do not persuade me to reach a different outcome fundamentally 
set out in the Investigators view. 
Did Mrs C ignore an effective warning?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify an APP scam risk, they should provide an 
effective warning to their customers. It also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met the standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the fraud.
Im also mindful that HSBC should fairly and reasonable have had systems in place to look 
out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its customer was at risk: 
among other things.
HSBC has already reimbursed B half of the first two transactions as its admitted that it could 
have done more to prevent them. But it did intervene in the last two payments made to the 
fraudster as it identified the payments as a scam risk. It says it contacted Mrs C and asked 
her a series of questions and provided warnings. Broadly, the code says that in order for a 
warning to be effective it must be impactful, timely and specific.
Having listened to the two calls between Mrs C and HSBC prior to releasing the two final 
payments, Im not persuaded that HSBC has been able to demonstrate it provided an 
effective warning as defined in the CRM Code.
Mrs C had fallen victim to a common scam whereby she was pressured into paying who she 
thought was HMRC for unpaid tax or face distressing consequences. During both calls, the 
operator did touch upon this type of scam briefly.
In the first call, the representative of HSBC did ask if Mrs C was asked by the bank, or a 
third-party such as HMRC, to transfer the funds. And Mrs C did respond untruthfully and said 
that she hadnt. Instead, it asked questions about the reasons she did give for making the 
payment  which was that the payments were for a supplier to her business. The 
representative didnt go into any detail or warn about the common features of impersonation 
scams or how they are perpetrated despite this clearly being identified as a potential risk. 
They merely asked if Mrs C was making payment to these organisations. Likewise, in the 
second call made regarding the fourth payment, the representative merely asked if Mrs C 
had been instructed by her bank or a third-party to transfer the funds. Again, Mrs C said she 
had not. She provided the same reasons shed given for the third payment and no further 
warnings regarding these types of scams was given. 
I think HSBC should have taken the opportunity to look at the bigger picture in these calls. 
Mrs C had transferred a substantial amount of money from her account on the same day via 
four relatively high value payments to two new payees. And at the fourth payment, shed 
provided the same reasons shed given for making the third payment of £12,500 from her 
account. I think these combined factors should have caused HSBC some concern and it 
should have tailored its questions and warnings taking this into consideration; especially as it 
had identified a scam risk and asked questions specifically relating to the scam Mrs C had 
fallen victim to, but didnt go further.
While Mrs C was untruthful about the reasons for her payments, this is typical of victims of 
fraud. Mrs Cas is commonwas coerced by the fraudsters to not disclose the purpose of 
the payment otherwise theyd be consequences. And she was given a cover story to give in 
its place to ensure the success of the payment. I do acknowledge that this represents 
difficulties for the bank, but had it gone further in warning Mrs C about the common features 
of impersonation scams, which it did ask brief questions about, it likely would have broken 
the spell as it would have matched the specific circumstances Mrs C had experienced. As 
such, I dont find that the warnings were impactful for Mrs C or specific to the type of scam 
shed fallen victim to.  
Did Mrs C make the payment without a reasonable basis for belief?
Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt shown that Mrs C lacked a reasonable basis of belief for the first two payments because:
Mrs C does have a business and therefore, its not unreasonable that shed be 
contacted by HMRC regarding her business tax affairs.
Mrs C checked the telephone number she was speaking with the caller on. This 
matched the legitimate telephone number of a division of HMRC found on an official 
government website. 
There is no evidence to suggest Mrs C was aware of the ability to spoof official 
government body telephone numbers, so I find this would have been a persuasive 
tactic.
The fraudster added another element of legitimacy, along with the official telephone 
number, by quoting specific details regarding her business.
The fraudstersas is common with these types of fraudplaced a significant 
amount of pressure on Mrs C when contacting her and coerced her into making the 
payments. They didnt allow her to hang up the telephone, preventing her from taking 
a step back and evaluating the situation from a more objective position.
Mrs C was threatened with the issuance of a warrant of arrest and prosecution if she 
failed to follow instructions immediately, adding an element of fear which no doubt 
skewed Mrs Cs ability to use her better judgement.
While Mrs C did later acknowledge that she was aware HMRC only communicate via 
post, this was after the call had terminated and she had time to reflect. Nevertheless, 
the caller did point out that shed been sent letters that had been ignored. Its 
therefore reasonable to assume other forms of communication would be attempted in 
such circumstances.
Having said this, I do agree that the fraud became less believable at the point the third and 
fourth payment were made. I say this because:
 Its less plausible that a court would order a three-year advance on taxes 
considering that these would be impossible to calculate.
 There is a legitimate question as to why this wasnt previously discussed when being 
instructed to make the first two payments as part of the settlement.
 She was being instructed to make payment to a new payee that she hadnt made the 
previous two payments to.
 Mrs C was instructed at this point by the caller to be dishonest to the bank, should 
they call, and was given a cover story; as they claimed if HMRC was mentioned 
theyd freeze the account which would result in arrest proceedings being 
implemented.
 At this point Mrs C had been on the telephone for a considerable period of time and 
had been placed on hold during this call. I think this should have given Mrs C time to 
reflect on the requests being made.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded that Mrs C had a reasonable basis for believing 
she was legitimately dealing with HMRC when she made the third and fourth payment.
Putting things right
HSBC should now go ahead and reimburse B the remaining 50% of the first two payments, 
and reimburse 50% of the final two payments.
As Ive already highlighted above, this should include 8% simple interest from the date 
HSBC declined the claim, to the date of repayment.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1. Reimburse B the remaining 50% of the first two transactions (£8,400).
2. Reimburse B 50% of the last two payments (£12,500).
3. Pay 8% simple annual interest on these payments from the date HSBC declined the 
claim to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman