DRN-4055359
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plcs (trading as Cahoot) delay in opening a bond, 
caused him financial loss and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K applied online on 1 November 2022, to open a three-year fixed rate bond with Cahoot. 
Mr K understood that the bond would be opened within three business days from the date of 
application. The account was opened on 10 November 2022 and Mr K was provided log in 
details at the end of November 2022.  
Mr K says he has lost interest as the account was opened eight business days from the date 
of application. Mr K also complains about the time spent chasing this matter. He feels that 
Cahoot gave poor customer service. Mr K seeks compensation for the inconvenience he 
was put to.
Cahoot say they were experiencing unexpected and unprecedented demand for the bond at 
the time and they warned prospective customers that it may take longer than usual to 
process applications. Cahoot apologised for the delay Mr K encountered but gave 
reassurance that Mr K had not lost out financially as interest was calculated from the date 
the application was made, not from the date the account was opened.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought Cahoot had given a clear warning on 
their website that processing times may be longer than normal. Mr K was able to fund the 
bond once it was opened and interest was backdated to the date of application, so he didnt 
lose out. And whilst Cahoot had sent the online details at the end of November, this hadnt 
prevented Mr K being able to fund the bond and hed been able to maintain contact through 
telephone. Our investigator noted that Mr K had asked about cancelling the bond, but there 
was nothing to show that this was guaranteed after funds had been invested.
Mr K disagrees with the outcome. Mr K relies upon the opening email which referred to 
delays after they had occurred. He maintains that he should be compensated for Cahoots 
shortcomings. 
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that there was a delay in processing Mr Ks application. Ive also noted that 
the high level of demand was unforeseen by Cahoot and was driven by positive commentary 
from an external source. In response to this demand, Im satisfied that Cahoot placed a 
warning banner on-line explaining that processing times were taking longer. From the 
information provided I consider that it is more likely than not that this online information was 
there to be seen at the time the application was made. 
Ive also seen that Cahoot apologised for the delay in processing the application in an email 
sent to Mr K on 10 November and again explained that it was taking longer to process 
applications. I agree that the email was sent after Mr K had complained to the business, but 
there is nothing to show that this email was sent in response to that complaint. Rather, 
Cahoot have explained that this email was sent to applicants in bulk. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Cahoot took reasonable steps to explain that the application 
process may be delayed and they apologised. As it took five working days longer to open the 
bond, Ive looked to see if Mr K lost out financially because of this delay. Mr K was able to 
deposit funds once the bond opened and interest was backdated and calculated from the 
date of application of the bond, not the date the bond opened. So, Im satisfied that Mr K did 
not suffer any financial loss.
It isnt disputed that Mr K received the log in details for the bond towards the end of 
November, but I dont think this put him to any disadvantage as Mr K was able to deposit 
funds once the bond opened and was able to contact Cahoot by telephone throughout this 
time. Further, once funds were deposited there was no guarantee that they could be 
refunded and this was clear from the terms and conditions of the bond.
When Mr K raised his concerns on 7 November, the adviser took Mr Ks details to 
investigate the matter, but did explain that the application should be processed by the end of 
the week or start of next. I agree it would have been preferable if Cahoot had escalated and 
responded to the complaint but Ive taken into account that the bond was opened by 10 
November and Im satisfied that an appropriate apology was given at that time. 
I understand that Mr K feels strongly that Cahoot should pay compensation but Im satisfied 
that Cahoot took reasonable steps to warn that there might be a short delay in the 
application process, took reasonable steps to ensure there was no financial loss and 
apologised for the shortcomings. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman