DRN-2869352
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, unfairly applied an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when he moved house. He says it delayed transfer of title to his 
property, made multiple errors and caused delays in sorting matters out and responding to 
his subject access request and complaint. Hed like to move his mortgage to another lender 
without paying any fees.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with Halifax. He contacted Halifax in November 2020 as he was 
moving house. The mortgage adviser told him he could port his interest rate product to the 
new mortgage. Or he could take out a new interest rate product which would mean paying 
the ERC. The adviser recommended taking out a new product as the lower interest rate 
meant Mr B would save money overall.
Halifax issued a mortgage offer to Mr B with a new interest rate product. Mr Bs sale 
completed in December 2020. Halifax applied the ERC. Mr Bs solicitor didnt include the 
ERC in the redemption funds sent to Halifax, and Halifax didnt remove its charge.
Mr B complained to Halifax. He said the mortgage adviser had pushed his own preference 
on him. He said it wasnt agreed at the meeting what hed do about porting, and he thought 
he could choose at a later stage. Mr B didnt pay the ERC until April 2020, and Halifax didnt 
remove its charge until it received the ERC. Mr B says he received threats from his 
purchaser due to the charge remaining on the property.
Mr B is upset at the way his complaint was handled. He didnt receive the call recording hed 
requested for eight months and he didnt receive Halifaxs final response letter until January 
2021. Mr B says the £200 paid by Halifax for this isnt enough: he wants to move to another 
lender. 
Our investigator said the mortgage adviser told Mr B that an ERC would apply if he didnt 
port his rate. The adviser recommended taking out a new product with a lower rate as this 
would save Mr B money in the long run, and this was the basis on which Halifax issued the 
mortgage offer. The investigator said the mortgage adviser told Mr B he could decide what to 
do and let him know if he wanted to change things. However, there was no evidence Mr B 
had gone back to say he wanted to port his product. 
Our investigator said Halifax sent a final response letter to Mr B in June 2020. It did make 
errors when responding to Mr Bs complaint and to his subject access request. However this 
didnt make it reasonable to require Halifax to refund the ERC Mr B paid, or waive any ERC 
on his current mortgage. The investigator said the £200 paid by Halifax was reasonable 
compensation for its poor service.
Mr B didnt agree. He said its wrong to say that he agreed to the option put forward by 
Halifax. Mr B said it was clear there was a misunderstanding about the ERC, and he didnt 
agree to this on the call with the mortgage adviser. He said it took eight months for Halifax to 
provide a recording of this call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with this, I havent set out 
every event. I can assure Mr B that while I havent set out all of the concerns hes raised 
individually or with the same level of detail, Ive read and considered all of the comments and 
evidence hes provided before reaching my decision. 
Mr B had a mortgage with Halifax with a balance of about £55,000. He had a fixed interest 
rate product of 2.69%. An ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid before the end of 
January 2023, as was the case here. Mr B paid an ERC of about £2,000.
Mr Bs complaint falls, broadly, into three parts. First, the mortgage advice and 
recommendation he was given by Halifaxs mortgage adviser in November 2019. Second, 
Halifaxs failure to help him when he found out hed incurred an ERC. And third, how Halifax 
dealt with his complaint and requests for information.
The mortgage advice and recommendation
Ive listened to the recording of the call between Mr B and the mortgage adviser in late 2019. 
Halifax told Mr B he could port his product or take out a new product  which would mean 
paying an ERC. Mr B says he told the mortgage adviser his preference was not to pay the 
ERC. I agree Mr B didnt commit to pay the ERC. But he did say he was prepared to pay the 
ERC if it was cheaper. The adviser said hed only recommend this if it meant Mr B was 
better off. 
There was also a discussion about different products, both fixed and variable rates, and 
whether Mr B would be better off paying a product fee to secure a product with a lower 
interest rate. 
The mortgage advisers recommendation (to take out a new product for the whole loan) was 
reflected in the illustration and the mortgage offer. While Mr B says he felt the adviser was 
pushing his own preference, I dont think thats fair. The adviser had to make a 
recommendation that he thought was most suitable for Mr B. Due to the recommended 
product having a lower interest rate, it was cheaper overall for Mr B than porting.
The mortgage adviser told Mr B he could think things over and let him know if he changed 
his mind. This was correct. Mr B could have gone back to Halifax and said he wanted to port 
his mortgage. This would have meant a new mortgage offer being issued. Mr B needed to 
contact Halifaxs mortgage adviser about this before taking out the mortgage on the terms 
set out in the mortgage offer. Theres no evidence that Mr B did this. While Mr B says Halifax 
knew he didnt understand the process, again theres no evidence Halifax did know this.
Mr B says he didnt sign up to the porting fee (by which I assume he means the ERC). But 
he agreed to this when he took out his mortgage product in 2017. And while he says he 
didnt confirm hed agreed to take out a new product, and didnt accept the mortgage offer, 
this was the basis on which he took out the mortgage for his purchase. Mr B says he thought 
he could make a decision later about whether to port, but I dont think Halifax could have 
known if he expected to do this after hed taken out the new mortgage. The redemption statement sent by Halifax to Mr Bs solicitor included the ERC. Mr B says his 
solicitor told him not to pay it. However, if Mr B thought this was wrong he could have asked 
Halifax about it at the time. 
I dont think Halifax made an error here. Taking out a new product for the whole loan meant 
Mr B would pay less overall, and hed told Halifax hed pay the ERC if this was the case. The 
mortgage offer  which Mr B accepted  set out the terms, including the interest rate 
product. And the redemption statement included the ERC. While the mortgage adviser told 
Mr B he could come back to him if he changed his mind, theres no evidence Mr B did this.  
What happened when Mr B found out hed incurred an ERC?
The mortgage offer sent to Mr B in 2017 set out the terms of his mortgage, including that an 
ERC would apply if he repaid the mortgage before the end of January 2023. 
Mr B contacted Halifax in early 2020 saying he hadnt expected to be charged an ERC. Mr B 
said hed been assured by Halifax that no ERC would be required, or that it would be 
refunded once hed ported. Im sorry if Mr B misunderstood this, but Ive listened to the call 
and I dont think the mortgage adviser misled Mr B about the ERC. He could have avoided 
the ERC if hed ported his mortgage, but he didnt do that. He took out a different product 
with a lower interest rate. As Mr B repaid his mortgage while the ERC applied, I think Halifax 
was entitled to apply it. 
Halifax didnt release its charge as Mr B hadnt paid what he owed in full. The delay in 
releasing the charge caused problems for Mr B. However, I dont think Halifax was 
responsible for that. It was entitled to apply the ERC and this was included in the redemption 
statement. While Mr B says his solicitor told him not to pay the ERC, Halifax wasnt 
responsible for the solicitors advice or Mr Bs decision not to pay the ERC. 
Mr B wanted to listen to the recording of the call with the mortgage adviser. He asked the 
mortgage adviser in February 2020 if there was another option to resolve this  presumably 
without paying the ERC. I understand why Mr B wanted to explore this. But it was Mr Bs 
decision to delay paying the ERC in the meantime. I think Halifax was entitled to keep its 
charge in place until the loan it secured was paid.
How did Halifax deal with Mr Bs complaint and information requests?
There were errors here. Mr B set out the various problems he experienced in relation to his 
complaint and requests for information and I can appreciate how frustrating this was. Mr B 
has said that these issues have overtaken the original problem with the ERC. 
I should say here that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  which means we cant 
look into it as a self-standing issue. I can look into how well Halifax dealt with the original 
matter complained about. 
I think Halifax was clear about the central issue that started this complaint  whether the 
ERC had to be paid. The mortgage adviser told Mr B the ERC would be payable if his 
product wasnt ported, the ERC was included in the redemption statement and Halifax 
chased the solicitor and Mr B for payment in early 2020. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive the final response letter sent by Halifax in mid-2020, 
which might have meant the matter was resolved sooner and spared Mr B from having to 
continue to contact Halifax. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find 
that the letter went astray due to an error by Halifax. It took eight months for Halifax to provide a recording of Mr Bs call with the mortgage 
adviser. Mr B says despite Halifax asking what time of day it should call him, it still called at 
other, less convenient times. Hes pointed out errors and inconsistencies in its letters. He 
found Halifaxs responses (and lack of responses) upsetting. Its likely Halifax was affected 
by its staff working differently due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Halifax accepts there were 
delays in responding to Mr B and paid £200 for the upset and inconvenience this caused. 
Did Halifax do enough to put matters right?
Mr B accepted the mortgage offer and this set out the terms on which Halifax lent the money 
to him. I dont think Halifax misled Mr B that he could change the terms of the mortgage and 
decide to port his previous product after completion. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Halifax to waive any ERC if Mr B re-mortgages elsewhere, or refund the ERC he 
paid when he moved house. 
I dont think Halifax is responsible for Mr Bs decision not to pay the ERC. It follows that I 
dont think its fair to require it to compensate Mr B for the difficulties he had a result of the 
charge not being removed until the ERC was paid.
I do think though that Mr B was caused trouble and upset by errors and delays in responding 
to his complaint and information requests. When considering what compensation is fair and 
reasonable, I need to take into account that I think Halifax was clear about the issue that 
triggered the complaint  payment of the ERC. It responded to Mr Bs complaint in mid-2020 
and didnt know at that time its final response letter had gone astray. Overall I think £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman