The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his accounts and returned a payment to 
its source. He wants Santander to return the money to him.
What happened
Mr A had two accounts with Barclays.
Barclays has explained that it was contacted in March 2020 by a bank which also provided 
banking facilities to Mr A. It said it was concerned about certain activity between Mr As 
account with it and his account with Barclays. Mr As other bank told Barclays that fraudulent 
funds had been paid into his account. And hed then moved the funds into his Barclays 
account. 
Barclays placed blocks on Mr As accounts, whilst it investigated the report from Mr As other 
bank. This meant Mr A couldnt access the money in them. At the time 
Mr A had nearly £14,000 in his accounts. After reviewing Mr As accounts, Barclays released 
£11,197.02 to him. It returned just under £1,800 back to Mr As other bank. However, after 
doing so it realised it had mistakenly withheld £978.25 from Mr A. So, the bank also released 
this money to him. Barclays also decided it no longer wanted Mr A as a customer and closed 
his accounts without notice. 
Mr A said the money paid into his account was from sales hed made through his business to 
customers. So, he says the bank shouldnt have sent any money back to his other bank. He 
says hes out of pocket and wants the money returned to him. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong. Given the concerns reported by Mr As other 
bank, it said its actions had been appropriate. It noted however, that it shouldve returned 
£978.25 to him when it closed his accounts. So, it offered him £200 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr A didnt accept the banks offer. He wants Barclays to give her the money it sent back to 
the other bank. 
An investigator looked into Mr As case. He said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when 
it closed Mr As accounts and returned the money to the other bank. He also thought 
Barclayss offer of £200 was fair and reasonable. Mr A didnt accept what the investigator 
said. And provided paperwork including receipts and merchant terminal agreements which 
he said shows hes entitled to the money which Barclays sent back.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1943518reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with Barclayss decision to restrict Mr As accounts whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by his other bank. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe 
it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Barclays to have acted in the way that it did. 
Fraud is a serious matter, and one-way banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by 
restricting account when allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them.
Barclays has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats 
in line with what most banks would do in the same situation. And it enabled Barclays to 
consider how best to react to the report it had received from Mr As other bank.
All banks also have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was complying with its obligations 
when it blocked and reviewed Mr As account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr A 
inconvenience, I cant say Barclays treated him unfairly when it blocked his accounts. 
Mr A says that the money in the account shouldnt have been returned to source. But Banks 
must be able to talk to each other to protect their customers when money has been sent to 
the wrong account, or they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what happened here. 
The other bank told Barclays a credit to Mr As account was fraudulent. So, it returned the 
money to the other bank. Ive looked at the evidence which Barclays relied on to return the 
money. Having done so, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong. 
Mr A says the money going into his account was money hed earnt from his business. In 
support of what hes said, Mr As provided some invoices, receipts from card payments and 
merchant terminal agreements. Mr A says this information proves hes entitled to the money 
Barclays sent back to his other bank.  But I dont agree. And I would make the following 
observations on what Mr A has produced.
The fraudulent payment is for an order much larger than normally taken by Mr As 
business, so its out of character for his usual trading pattern and
Mr A hasnt been able to provide any details of the customers who he says placed 
the order or any evidence that hed purchased the stock he said hed sold to them. 
 
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont believe Barclays acted unfairly when it returned the 
money to Mr As other bank.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr As accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Mr As accounts without notice. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Mr A was operating his account. So, it was entitled to 
close the accounts as it has already done. 
The investigator noted that the bank had acknowledged that is should have returned a 
further £978.25 to him when it closed his accounts. It offered Mr A £200 in recognition of 
that. The investigator agreed that Barclays should have returned the money to Mr A sooner. But he thought the offer of £200 was fair in the circumstances. I share that assessment and 
dont therefore think it necessary for me to award any more.
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr A when Barclays blocked and 
closed his accounts. And didnt release funds held in them. So, I realise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Barclays acted inappropriately and treated Mr A 
unfairly in taking the actions it did.
In summary, I appreciate of course, that Barclayss actions caused Mr A stress and 
inconvenience. So, I realise Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. But Im not going to 
ask Barclays to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything more to resolve 
Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman