DRN-2005669
The complaint
Mr and Ms D complain that Santander UK Plc transferred the funds in their pension account 
into a non-pension savings account without their authority.
What happened
Mr D and his wife, Ms D, had a small self-administered pension scheme (SSAS), which used 
to be administered by a third party until 2014, when Mr D took over the administration of the 
scheme. The schemes funds were held in a Santander SSAS account from 2012 to 2013, 
when they were transferred into another account, which was not a pension account. It is not 
in dispute that this should never have occurred. Transferring pension funds into a non-
pension account has serious tax implications, as it can incur significant penalties from 
HMRC.
This error came to light in 2016. Mr D asked Santander to move the funds back into a 
pension account right away. Santander accepted that it had been at fault in permitting the 
situation to come about, but it told Mr D that it would need him to provide certain documents 
before it could open a new pension account, the old account having been closed. The 
parties then corresponded, on and off, for about three years, without the matter being 
resolved. In 2019, Mr D provided the documents Santander had asked for, and a new 
pension account was opened and the funds were transferred into it in November of that year. 
Meanwhile, Mr and Ms D had already brought this complaint to our Service, in July. Mr D 
represents his wife in this complaint.
In April 2020, Santander offered to pay Mr and Ms D £2,500 as a gesture of good will, in 
recognition of the fact that it should not have allowed the money to be paid into the wrong 
kind of account, and also for partly contributing to the delay in resolving the problem  
although it maintained that the primary responsibility for the delay rested with Mr D. Mr D did 
not accept that offer, having earlier asked for £349,400. He said the problem had caused 
him to miss out on the opportunity to invest his money, resulting in the loss of three years of 
potential income.
Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair. She thought that Santander had done its 
best to solve the problem once it had come to light, and that the bank had been entitled to try 
to find out more information before taking action, due to the potential complexity of the tax 
issues raised. She said that Santander had offered a reasonable solution in 2016, and that 
the delay since then had been the result of Mr D challenging that proposal unnecessarily. 
She did not think that Santander was responsible for the consequential losses Mr D had 
claimed, or that the compensation Mr D had asked for was justified.
Mr D did not accept that opinion. He insisted that the bank had created a problem which only 
the bank could resolve. He said the bank had failed to provide clear information about which 
documents it required from him, and of what the relevant procedures were. He accused the 
bank of prevarication. He argued that since Santander had communicated with his financial 
advisor, Santander should pay the advisors reasonable expenses. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to all parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned to 
an ombudsman.
I think that Santanders offer is fair, and I will not require it to do more than pay Mr and Ms D 
what it has offered. I will explain why.
I will deal first with what went wrong in the first place, and then with what the parties did 
afterwards to remedy the situation.
Mr D has accused Santander of forging his signature, and his wifes signature, on a form, the 
form being the document which purported to authorise the opening of the new and 
unsuitable account in 2013. I can see why he says that must have been Santanders doing. 
But although Santander accepts that the signatures were not genuine, it has also pointed out 
that there is no proof that they were forged by its staff. It says that this could have been done 
by a third party acting on Mr Ds behalf, such as his accountant, and that this cannot be ruled 
out. In support of that position, Santander says that after its fraud department had carried out 
an investigation, it found that none of the money had been taken, so there appeared to have 
been nothing to gain by one of its own employees forging the signatures. The account had 
always been visible to Mr and Ms D online throughout its existence.
Santander accepts responsibility for what happened on the basis that the forged signatures 
clearly did not match its customers signature mandates, and this should have been spotted 
by its staff, and the form should not have been processed. The money would then not have 
been transferred to the wrong kind of account.
I dont think there is enough evidence for me to safely make a finding about who forged the 
signature, although clearly somebody did. I will not make a finding about that, but I am 
satisfied that Santander should not have processed the form, and it follows that Santander is 
responsible for the money being transferred into a non-pension account. However that 
happened, it was a serious error. It is only right that compensation should be paid for that.
Before I move on to how the parties dealt with the problem once it was discovered in 2016, 
I will deal with one other matter which Mr D has brought to our attention. He said that 
Santander had falsely stated that the reason why the third party which had originally 
administered the SSAS had ceased to act in 2014 was because Mr D had failed to pay their 
fee. He described this comment as very hurtful, unprofessional and libellous. I have no idea 
whether the fact asserted was true or not, but it is only right that I tell Mr D that Santander 
did not come up with it by themselves. It is what they were told by the third party, in an email 
dated 23 August 2016. If that is incorrect, then that is not Santanders fault.
To return to the main issue, Mr D has argued that all Santander needed to do once the 
problem was discovered was to immediately put matters back to how they had stood before 
the forgery, without delay. I agree that the right solution was to return the money to a 
suitable account, but I dont agree that the implementation of that solution was quite as 
straightforward as Mr D suggests. As Ive said, moving pension money into a non-pension 
account and back again potentially has significant and serious tax implications, and 
Santander had a duty to ensure that what it was going to do was legal, and also that it would 
not prejudice Mr Ds position with HMRC. An unauthorised payment can incur a tax penalty 
of 55 per cent of the value of the payment. In this instance, that would have been 55 per cent 
of Mr and Ms Ds entire pension fund. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Santander to want to be prudent, and to find out (in particular) whether the money had been accounted for 
in a pension scheme return to HMRC since being transferred to the second account. Only Mr 
and Ms D, or their financial advisor, could tell Santander that. I can see from the 
correspondence that Santander was still chasing Mr D for an answer to that question in late 
2018, having first asked in 2016.
I also note that Mr Ds financial advisor wrote to Santander on 12 August 2016 and advised 
the bank that in his professional opinion, Santander should report the 2013 transfer to 
HMRC and to the Pensions Regulator. Mr D has since complained that Santander had no 
need to involve HMRC, but in the light of this correspondence I cannot uphold that 
complaint.
Santander also had to follow its account opening procedures, since it was necessary to open 
a new account as the old one had been closed. For that purpose, it could not just rely on the 
documents which Mr D had provided when he opened the original account, four years 
earlier. I think it was reasonable to ask for new ones.
I dont agree that Santander was vague about what documents it needed to open the new 
account. A detailed and comprehensive list was set out in Santanders email dated 6 July 
2017. The requested documents were not provided until 2019. Until then, Mr D had refused 
to provide them, despite Santander repeatedly explaining that it could not open a new 
pension account without them. This appears to be because Mr D had been told by his 
advisor that opening a new account was inadvisable and might fall foul of regulations. I dont 
think Mr D can be blamed for following the professional advice he had paid for, but I also 
dont think that Santander can be blamed for adhering to its position, since there appears to 
have been no alternative course of action open to it. It couldnt just re-open a closed account 
which no longer existed; it needed to open a new account and to follow its normal 
procedures for doing so. That included obtaining up to date information to comply with anti-
money laundering regulations, which it did not have any discretion to waive. So the parties 
appear to have been deadlocked for most of the period. Its not clear what changed in 2019, 
save that in or around July of that year Mr D provided the information Santander had asked 
for.
While it seems that Santander could have dealt more quickly with the documents when they 
were received, and could have fully set out what it needed earlier than it did, I think the 
majority of the three-year delay can be attributed to Mr D following the advice of his advisors 
instead of complying with the banks request. While I do not criticise Mr D for doing that, 
I cannot say that is Santanders fault.
Putting things right
As I have said, Santander has offered to pay Mr and Ms D £2,500. I think that is fair. I do not 
think that Santander should have to pay the cost of corresponding with Mr Ds financial 
advisor, since I cannot see why that correspondence was necessary. Nor do I think that it 
would be fair or proportionate to require Santander to pay Mr D for the income he lost out on 
by not investing the money he wished to take from his pension fund, because I dont think 
Santander was primarily responsible for the loss of opportunity.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr and Ms D the £2,500 it has offered them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021. If they accept it, then all parties will be 
bound by it. If they do not accept it, then it will not be binding. In either case, this decision will be our final word on this complaint, and we will not enter into any further discussion about 
the merits of this case.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman