DRN-4079627
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that TSB Bank plc defaulted an account he believed had been closed 
several years ago. 
What happened
In September 2009, Mr G withdrew the money remaining in his TSB account and opened a 
new account with another provider. Recently, Mr G discovered that TSB had reported a 
default to his credit file dated January 2019 regarding his old TSB account. Mr G wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
TSB explained to Mr G that his account had never been closed and had held an overdrawn 
balance which had increased with the interest and charges that had accrued monthly. Mr G 
wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Mr G and TSB. During our 
investigators review, TSB changed their position on this complaint. They said that, while 
they felt that a balance on the account was correct, the absence of account activity from Mr 
G should have been recognised by them sooner, which should have led to the default being 
recorded against Mr G at an earlier date. 
Because of this, TSB offered to backdate the date of default to January 2010 and refund the 
interest accrued on the account from that date. But TSB felt that Mr G should be considered 
liable to repay the balance outstanding on the account following the interest reimbursement. 
Our investigator felt TSBs offer represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr G 
didnt agree, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has explained that he withdrew the remaining balance from his TSB account in 
September 2009, leaving the account with a zero balance. But the account statements 
provided by TSB clearly show that this wasnt the case. Instead, the statements show that 
when Mr G stopped using the account in 2009, his final transaction was a debit of £100 on 1 
September 2009 which left the account £61.61 overdrawn. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mr Gs statement that he left the TSB account with a zero balance 
is incorrect. Additionally, Mr G appears to not have closed his TSB account or indeed 
planned to have closed it, but instead intended to leave the balance at zero and then stop 
using the account. But because the account wasnt closed  and indeed, couldnt have been 
closed because of the outstanding balance on it  Mr G remained responsible, as the 
account holder, for monitoring the account and being aware of any balance outstanding.
Accordingly, because Mr G left an outstanding balance on the account which incurred 
charges and interest legitimately as per the terms of the account, I feel its fair that Mr G 
should be considered liable for the balance that accrued on the TSB account. 
However, its also apparent that from 1 September 2009, Mr G didnt use the account. And 
the only activity on the account after this date were charges and interest which continued to 
accrue on the overdrawn balance, which continued to grow with each passing month. And 
while it was Mr Gs responsibility to have been aware of the balance of the account, I also 
feel that TSB should reasonably have recognised, from the sudden absence of account 
activity, that the account had been abandoned by Mr G. 
TSB did eventually recognise this point, and they defaulted the account for the non-payment 
of the outstanding balance accordingly. But I agree with the position put forwards by TSB to 
our investigator that TSB should reasonably have recognised that Mr G had abandoned the 
account sooner. This would have meant they should have begun their collections and 
recovery process sooner, which would have resulted in an earlier defaulting of the account.
TSB have offered to backdate the defaulting of Mr Gs account to January 2010  when they 
feel the account abandonment should have been recognised  and to refund the interest and 
charges that have accrued on the account since that date. 
TSBs offer here feels fair to me, and it means TSB will only consider Mr G liable to pay the 
balance he left present on the account when he abandoned it as well as the charges and 
interest that accrued on the account between September 2009 and January 2010  which I 
feel were accrued fairly on the account given that I wouldnt expect TSB to have recognised 
the account abandonment by Mr G before January 2010.
Finally, Mr G has questioned whether his debt with TSB is legally enforceable. But its not for 
this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. Only a Court of Law can decide 
this. Instead, my role is to decide whether I feel the actions of TSB are fair. And in this 
instance, for the reasons Ive explained above, I feel the offer to resolve this matter put 
forwards by TSB does represent a fair outcome here. And so, Ill be upholding this complaint 
against TSB on that basis only. 
Putting things right
TSB must reimburse all interest and charges incurred or accrued on the account from 
January 2010 onwards.
TSB must also backdate the date of the default to January 2010.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman