DRN-3803910
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr R is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
Mr Rs safeguarded benefits were built up during 8 years and 3 months pensionable service 
in the BSPS between August 1984 and December 1992 while employed by British Steel. 
The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a guaranteed 
lifetime income to members. Mr Rs annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the 
scheme was £1,815.96. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed 
amount (by September 2017 it had been revalued to £3,555.72).
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), which was then the sponsoring employer 
for the BSPS, announced that it would be examining options to restructure its business 
including decoupling the scheme from the company. The consultation with members referred 
to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. 
Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack 
being issued to members, including Mr R, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail 
about the three options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr R was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted IFM for advice. It 
recorded the following information about Mr R in November 2017:
He was aged 50, single and in good health. He didnt have anyone financially 
dependent on him;
He was employed on a temporary basis as a health and safety consultant and paid 
gross annual income of about £60,000. He expected his employment status to 
change in the foreseeable future but details werent recorded;
His assets comprised the residential home (the value wasnt recorded). He didnt 
have any other savings or investments;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage on his residential home, the monthly cost of 
which was £500. The outstanding balance was about £125,000. The remaining term 
wasnt recorded. He didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about 
£1,500 available every month;
Other than his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, the only other pension provision he 
had was his state pension payable from age 67; and
He was an inexperienced investor with very little knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 4 or Moderate 
risk. This was defined as, You are happy to take on investment risk and understand 
that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. You are willing to take risk 
with most of your available assets.
IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in November 2017. This explained to Mr R that he 
had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as previously communicated by the 
BSPS. The BSPS offered Mr R a transfer value of £96,120.98 in respect of his pensionable 
service if he transferred to a PPP.
It was stated in the suitability report that Mr Rs primary objective regarding his safeguarded 
benefits was to transfer to a PPP to avoid the risk of a transfer to the PPF and to draw 
benefits flexibly when he retired at age 65. It was noted that due to his limited retirement 
provision, Mr R didnt plan on retiring earlier than the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. In 
reference to the critical yield, the adviser stated in the suitability report, I can confirm that 
our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual investment returns of 
typically around 6  8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from 
the current British Steel scheme. 
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr R 
accept the transfer value of £96,120.98 and transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for the 
following reasons:
You imagine you will require flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount 
of income you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your 
circumstances, needs and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) 
income that your existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
2.00% (or £2,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.45% platform charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.40% ongoing annual advice charge payable to IFM, deducted from the PPP fund 
value
Mr R accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Rs Moderate risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
This complaint
During 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mr R, complained to IFM about the suitability 
of the pension transfer advice it had given him in 2017. In its view, the pension transfer 
advice was unsuitable and had caused Mr R to suffer a financial loss.
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr R was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr R to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and have the ability 
to draw flexible benefits from his intended retirement age of 65. It was satisfied that it had 
adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr R with 
all the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed 
decision. It didnt believe the alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Rs 
objectives. In its view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was 
therefore suitable. 
In October 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it 
be upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Rs best interests compared to the alternative options. He noted that, 
contrary to the regulators requirements, IFM had failed to obtain a transfer value analysis 
system (TVAS) report before it advised Mr R. He thought suitable advice wouldve been to 
transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator recommended that IFM carry out 
a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr R transferred to 
the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, 
he recommended that IFM pay Mr R £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation.The Representative, on behalf of Mr R, accepted our investigators assessment and 
provided some additional comments about how redress should be calculated. IFM didnt 
provide a response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IFMs response to this complaint
IFM issued a final response letter to Mr R rejecting this complaint. But it didnt provide a 
response to our investigators assessment. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive 
decided that IFM has had sufficient time to respond and provide any additional comments or 
evidence for me to consider. Based on the available contemporaneous evidence, Im 
satisfied that I have sufficient information to be able to decide this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr R were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr R, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Rs situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr R wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS in its Time to Choose 
communication pack and repeated by IFM in its suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr R. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary 
increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the 
PPP option would be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity 
rates available at retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level 
of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
the time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 was likely to be the better option for Mr R based on his personal circumstances and that he 
expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. And so its 
my view that IFM shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 
if it could clearly demonstrate why it was in Mr Rs best interests, as referenced in COBS 
19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr R was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Rs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 8 years and 3 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr R was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Rs 
limited capacity for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility and control as a high 
priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a clearly 
suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, Mr R wasnt seeking to retire early. Rather, he 
anticipated retiring at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. One of the main 
reasons why IFM recommended the transfer was so that Mr R could draw benefits 
flexibly when he retired at age 65. But he was then aged 50 and so couldnt access 
any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such a time 
frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving flexible benefits in 15 years time  
more difficult to justify;
Its unclear why Mr R apparently didnt value guaranteed retirement income. It seems 
he had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed 
retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr R was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. 
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr R had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits in 15 years time. 
Theres no real evidence that Mr R required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or 
variable income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs 
couldve been met by the tax-free cash under the BSPS2 when he took benefits at 
age 65. This doesnt appear to have been adequately considered by IFM;
Furthermore, Mr R had surplus disposable income of about £1,500 available every 
month. In my view, it wouldve made more financial sense to retain save some of 
these additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account over the 
15 year term to age 65 to provide any flexible income or lump sums needs rather 
than transferring and losing benefit guarantees. Theres inadequate evidence that 
IFM considered this option;
The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure. I think that age 50 it wouldve been difficult to calculate an 
accurate income figure with the time frame to age 65. IFM failed to obtain the 
necessary information relating to Mr Rs financial situation including his anticipated 
income and expenditure during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for 
him to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his income need at age 65. Theres 
insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Rs best interests to transfer at 
that time to provide flexible benefits from age 65; 
In its final response letter, IFM commented that the scheme pension was insufficient 
to support Mr R and that his main retirement provision was going to be his state 
pension and releasing equity from his residential home. And so it took the position 
that Mr R could afford to expose the value of his safeguarded benefits to risk 
because he wasnt going to be relying on it. I agree that, in isolation, the safeguarded 
benefits were unlikely to provide sufficient retirement income for Mr R. But this didnt 
mean it was suitable for him to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees in exchange for 
unlimited downside risk. I think what was important at that stage, bearing in mind               
Mr R was then aged 50 with limited time to age 65 to recover any losses, was to seek 
 as much as possible  to preserve any sources of guaranteed retirement income 
he had;
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr R. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cant see 
that there was any compelling reason for Mr R to take on those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr R to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 50;
IFM recorded that Mr R was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and so wanted control over his pension. But he appears to have been a 
largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. In my view,  
Mr R had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks 
involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr R didnt value the guarantee provided by the PPF and so was 
concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. While I understand that he may 
have been concerned about this, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an 
outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr R wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his 
scheme pension. This contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no 
promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. If Mr R was concerned about his 
safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which would result in him losing 
10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as an inexperienced investor, he 
would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited 
downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt 
make sense to me; 
Theres no evidence that IFM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) based on 
Mr Rs specific circumstances in line with COBS 19.1.2R. Rather, in the suitability 
report, it inexplicably provided a generic critical yield figure. Its adviser stated, I can 
confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual 
investment returns of typically around 6  8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme. This compared 
with a discount rate of 4.2% at age 65, as explained by our investigator in his 
assessment. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its 
my view that a required investment growth rate ranging between 6.0% to 8.0% was 
incompatible with Mr Rs Moderate risk profile, discount rate and the estimated 
annual growth rate of 5.99% (before charges) of the recommended investment 
strategy. I think these factors showed that it was likely Mr R would be financially 
worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Rs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. It included 
a generic rather than specific critical yield figure based on Mr Rs circumstances and 
failed to provide sufficient information on the alternative options to achieve his stated 
objectives. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report led to him making an 
uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when this was not in his best 
interests.
Conclusion
The transfer out of the BSPS was recommended on the grounds that it would meet Mr Rs 
objectives of income flexibility and control over investment choice. It appears to me that IFM 
placed greater emphasis on Mr Rs objectives, failing to assess whether the pension transfer 
was in his best interests and whether the objectives could in fact be achieved by transferring 
to the BSPS2. 
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Rs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr R couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr R gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr R wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. I agree given it was known at the 
time that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As 
such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, 
compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons 
explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Representative, on behalf of Mr R, and 
our service upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of this final decision. The Representative has stated that since the pension 
transfer, Mr R has transferred the value of his Prudential PPP into another pension plan. 
Therefore, IFM may require additional actuarial support in line with DISP App 4.2.7G to 
ensure that the value of Mr Rs pension plan is correctly apportioned to reflect the part 
attributable to the BSPS pension transfer.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr R accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr R £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr R the balance. 
If Mr R accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr R can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman