DRN-3326160
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complaint is about a Virgin One account they jointly held with The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) until 2015. They feel that they were pressured, starting in 2013, 
to treat the borrowing as if it were a repayment mortgage, and as they werent able to 
maintain that approach, they were forced to sell the property in 2015. They believe that 
having to sell the property earlier than they otherwise would have lost them a significant 
amount of appreciation in the propertys value. In addition, they paid moving and associated 
costs, totalling around £40,000. 
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy that when RBS completed a review of their account in 2019, it 
didnt accept that theyd needed to sell their home because of its actions in 2013. They are 
also unhappy with the amount of the compensation payment RBS offered them. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out a joint Virgin One account with RBS and set up a borrowing 
facility to enable them to finance their home. The borrowing limit was initially £336,000 over 
a term to 2016. £30,000 of this limit was on an interest-only basis with investments in place 
to repay it. The remaining £306,000 was on a capital and interest basis.
In 2008 the borrowing facility was increased to £400,000, of which £50,000 was on an 
interest-only basis payable in 2016 and the remainder on a capital and interest basis. 
The concept of the account was to provide a flexible borrowing resource for consumers. It 
allowed additional borrowing up to the facility limit without the need for the borrowers to have 
to go through further application processes. It also gave them flexibility around paying the 
capital. In Mr and Mrs S case, the interest-only part of the borrowing wasnt due to be paid 
until the end of the borrowing facility term and only interest was paid each month.
The remainder of the borrowing was on a capital and interest basis, so Mr and Mrs S were 
expected to reduce the amount owed on that portion of the mortgage gradually over the term 
of the borrowing. However, all they were required to pay on a regular monthly basis was the 
interest and they were allowed to reduce the capital debt as and when they wanted and in 
the manner they wanted. For example, they could reduce the capital amount owing on a 
monthly basis as they would have if they had taken a traditional repayment mortgage, or 
they could make ad-hoc larger reductions as and when funds were available. 
The repayment of the capital amount was entirely flexible and in the control of the borrowers, 
but it was also their responsibility to ensure that they made enough payments throughout the 
term to repay the capital by the end of the borrowing term. However, in order to assist them, 
RBS gave Mr and Mrs S guidance about reducing the debt during the term when they 
originally arranged the borrowing and when the borrowing facility or term was changed. 
These guides set out what amounts RBS would have expected the borrowing to have been 
reduced to at key points over the term in order to facilitate repayment the debt. RBS also 
sent regular information about the progress of the repayment arrangement against the 
guidance given  detailing whether the borrowers were ahead of or behind where RBS 
would have expected them to be.
Based on their annual statements, Mr and Mrs S borrowing was at its highest level at the 
end of 2009 at almost £389,000. It had reduced to around £381,000 by the end of 2012, but 
given there was less than four years of the borrowing term left, RBS had anticipated the 
amount owing would have been significantly lower by that time  around £163,000 lower.
In 2013 RBS contacted Mr and Mrs S about their borrowing. It highlighted that when they 
arranged the facility, they had chosen to repay most of the borrowing gradually over the 
mortgage term, but they hadnt been doing so. RBS asked them to get in touch if they 
werent in a position to reduce the debt to the level it needed to be to ensure that part of the 
borrowing was repaid by the end of the facility term. RBS would then take them through the 
options available to them. 
This review by RBS took place following the financial crash a few years earlier, after which 
the mortgage industry had concluded that accounts such as the Virgin One account where 
there was flexible lending and no reduction in the borrowing facility, represented a higher risk 
to borrowers than they had previously been thought to. As such, it was decided that 
borrowing limits should gradually be reduced to support the debt being paid off over the 
borrowing term. 
Mr S discussed the borrowing with RBS in the middle of July 2013. He informed RBS that 
they had investments that would hopefully pay off all the borrowing, but if not, the house 
would be sold. RBS asked for more information about the investments and Mr S said he 
would speak to their financial advisers and get back to RBS.  Mr S was told that as things 
stood, RBS needed to see the amount owing being reduced and he was told how much it 
needed to be reduced by on a monthly basis over the remaining term to clear the balance. 
Mr S was recorded as being unhappy with this. The potential for a term extension to make 
the capital payment more affordable was discussed, but it was left that Mr and Mrs S would 
go back to RBS with more information about their investments. 
When the information about Mr and Mrs S investments wasnt forthcoming, RBS contacted 
them again. It told them that if it didnt hear from them, in order to ensure the borrowing was 
repaid by the end of the term, it would be reducing the borrowing facility in line with the 
repayment guide plan on an annual basis starting in 2014. Mr and Mrs S contacted RBS 
when they received this letter.
Further discussions about how Mr and Mrs S planned to repay the borrowing happened in 
August 2013. It was recorded that they had pensions which they had always planned to use 
as a repayment vehicle for some of the debt. It was also confirmed that Mr S didnt plan to 
retire until he was 70. In light of this, RBS converted a further £150,000 of the borrowing to 
an interest-only basis. After an affordability check was completed, the term of the borrowing 
was also extended to make it affordable for Mr and Mrs S to pay the capital and interest part 
by the end of the term. This was confirmed in writing, along with a new repayment guide 
being detailed.
RBS didnt contact Mr and Mrs S about their borrowing facility again. As Mr and Mrs S had 
contacted it in 2013 when asked, no facility limit reductions were applied to the account and 
they werent contacted again about reducing the debt.
In July 2015 Mr and Mrs S decided to sell their home. The property sale completed in 
September 2015. 
In 2019, RBS contacted Mr and Mrs S regarding their account and the impact its repayment 
guide plan (RGP) process in 2013 had. It said that the purpose of the RGP had been to help 
and support Mr and Mrs S, but it had come to the conclusion that its communications could have been clearer. As such, it believed that some customers had taken actions that RBS 
hadnt intended them to. 
Mr and Mrs S put forward that theyd had to sell their home because of the RGP discussions 
in 2013 and the financial pressure they were put under because of the proposed borrowing 
facility reductions. They also put forward that theyd lost a significant amount on the value of 
the property they sold, when compared to what they would have received if theyd sold it at a 
later date. RBS has said that Mr S highlighted during its conversations with him, that they 
were ahead of their repayment plan in 2015, but because they wanted to support a family 
member financially at university, along with other expenditure they planned, they felt 
financially pressured and decided to sell. In addition, they explained the consequences on 
their personal lives and careers of having to reduce the amount they owed. 
RBS considered the information Mr S and Mrs S had provided about their circumstances, but 
it wasnt persuaded that theyd sold their home as a direct result of the 2013 discussions 
about the borrowing facility. However, it awarded a total of £600 for any upset or stress its 
communications in 2013 had caused Mr and Mrs S and the timescales involved with the 
review started in 2019.
RBS also responded to a complaint Mr and Mrs S made about the member of staff they 
spoke to in 2013 being aggressive. It said that it didnt doubt their recollection of events and 
apologised for how the calls made them feel, as this would not have been the member of 
staffs intention. It also said that the member of staff should have explained in detail the 
process and confirmed their understanding of its purpose. It didnt separately award any 
compensation on this complaint, as it had taken account of what had happened in 2013 
when it awarded the earlier compensation figure. 
Mr S and Mrs S were not happy with the responses they received and referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He thought that, in the circumstances, RBS hadnt been wrong to contact 
Mr and Mrs S about the repayment of the debt. The investigator also wasnt persuaded that 
theyd sold their property in 2015 solely because of the discussions about the borrowing 
facility in 2013. He thought it more likely that it was something theyd chosen to do due to 
their overall financial circumstances. In relation to the compensation that had been offered, 
he was satisfied that it was and appropriate amount.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They said that while they 
didnt disagree with most of the facts, they didnt accept the interpretation of the facts when it 
came to the effect of RBS actions. They said that the repayment guides up until 2013 had 
been just that, guides, and RBS hadnt questioned that they hadnt followed them. However, 
in 2013 it was made clear by the person they spoke to that was no longer the case and their 
plan to sell the property to repay the borrowing was not an acceptable option. They said that 
the person they spoke to was direct and made it very clear that they had to stick to the 
repayment plan theyd agreed to in the discussions in 2013 or RBS would take action. They 
said that due to their employment, they couldnt afford to have any financial black marks 
against them. They reiterated that they felt they had no choice but to sell their home and 
they didnt think that the investigator had given enough consideration to these points, in 
particular the way they were dealt with by the person they spoke to.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs S further comments, and he reassured them that he 
had taken all of the facts into account, including how they were made to feel in 2013, when 
he reached his conclusions. Mr and Mrs S reiterated their points again and that said they didnt think enough 
consideration had been given to them. As such, they asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The core of this complaint is whether the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs S made decisions 
based on misunderstandings due to the RGP discussions in 2013. Before I go on to 
comment, I would confirm to Mr S and Mrs S that I have considered everything they have 
said about their circumstances and their complaint about the person they spoke to in 2013. 
The borrowing in this case was taken out on a part and part basis. This meant that RBS had 
agreed that a small part of the borrowing could be left in place to be repaid by investments at 
the end of the term, but the remainder needed to be paid off gradually over the term. As I 
have said above, this was a flexible arrangement, and so RBS didnt dictate exactly how this 
was to be done and when. Rather it provided guidance to its customers to help them to know 
how much they needed to have paid off by various points in order to be on track to reduce 
the borrowing to zero by the end of the term. 
Following the financial crisis, the mortgage industry examined the market and the products 
available. Very flexible arrangements such as Mr and Mrs S were considered to represent 
quite a high risk to both borrowers and lenders. This was because borrowers could get to the 
end of the term and have no way to repay the borrowing. As such, RBS reviewed its 
Virgin One accounts and contacted borrowers that hadnt been reducing the debt as it would 
have expected. This exercise was designed to help borrowers with capital and interest 
arrangements to get back on track. I note that Mr and Mrs S have said that they had decided 
to repay the whole of the borrowing at the end of the term by selling the property rather than 
reducing the balance over the term. However, it doesnt appear that had been discussed 
with or agreed by RBS, so it was still expecting Mr and Mrs S to be reducing the amount of 
the debt on a regular basis. As Mr and Mrs S fell to be considered behind with their 
repayment plans, I cant find that RBS acted inappropriately when it contacted them in 2013. 
RBS has accepted that the person Mr and Mrs S spoke to in 2013 was aggressive and likely 
didnt adequately explain the purpose and process of the review that was being undertaken. 
It has apologised for this, which I think was an appropriate response. It also said this 
behaviour was factored in when it was deciding how much compensation to pay them. I will 
comment on compensation later in this decision, but I consider it was appropriate for 
compensation to include consideration of this issue.
Alongside the approach of the person Mr and Mrs S spoke to in 2013, I also have to 
consider the information they were given at the time and afterwards. Yes, RBS told them that 
it would reduce the borrowing facility on an annual basis, but only if they didnt talk to it about 
their situation and plans. Mr and Mrs S did talk to RBS and so it didnt apply any reductions 
to their borrowing facility. 
An assessment of Mr and Mrs S circumstances was made and RBS agreed to change the 
basis of the borrowing so that half of it was on an interest-only basis. This meant that they 
needed to pay significantly less capital off over the remainder of the term, but that was still 
something that wasnt possible, given how close the end of the term was. As such, in light of 
Mr S saying that he intended to work until 70, RBS agreed a term extension to 2021, which 
reduced the rate at which the debt had to be paid. RBS did an affordability check and established the amounts that would need to be paid were affordable and it appears that 
Mr and Mrs S agreed that was the case at the time. 
I note that Mr and Mrs S have indicated that was not the case, as it would have involved 
them changing their financial priorities in order to be able to pay off the £200,000 necessary 
over the new borrowing term. They have suggested that this was not reasonable. No-one 
wants to change their lifestyle if they dont have to, however, there are some financial 
matters that it is generally considered should be made a priority and paying a mortgage is 
one of those things. So if RBS did ask Mr and Mrs S to prioritise paying their debt to it, that 
wouldnt have been inappropriate. 
When the changes were applied to the account, RBS sent Mr and Mrs confirmation in 
writing. This again detailed the need to reduce the amount of borrowing on the capital and 
interest part of the debt. However, it also emphasised the flexibility of the arrangement and 
that it was for Mr and Mrs S to decide how they wanted to reduce their borrowing over the 
new term. All it required was that the capital and interest portion was paid off by the end of 
the term.
During 2013 and 2014 Mr and Mrs S reduced the amount of borrowing on the account by 
more than RBS had suggested they needed to. However, they have said they came to the 
conclusion that they wouldnt be able to maintain that level of reduction going forward and so 
decided to sell their home before RBS took action, by which I assume they mean 
repossessing the property. 
RBS has accepted that its member of staff was too aggressive in the discussions he had 
with Mr and Mrs S about the need to reduce the borrowing on their account. I see no reason 
to question what has been said about the determination of the adviser for Mr and Mrs to 
clear the capital and interest portion of their debt by the end of the term. However, that was 
not the only communication about the borrowing facility at the time and subsequently, and I 
have to take that into account too.
As Ive said above. RBS told Mr and Mrs S that if they didnt speak to it about their account it 
would reduce the borrowing facility each year thereafter. However, they did speak to it, and 
so no facility reduction was applied to the account. Mr and Mrs S would have been aware of 
this from both the correspondence following the changes to the account and the account 
statements sent thereafter. I think this reasonably would have indicated RBS was not taking 
a hard line on the reduction happening in exactly the way the guide detailed. The same can 
be said of the correspondence sent linked to the facility changes, as again RBS highlighted 
the flexibility of the arrangement and that the debt had to be cleared by the end of the term. 
So, even if the individual they spoke to told them there was no choice about following the 
guide exactly, I think the correspondence that was subsequently sent would have at least 
diluted that message if not contradicted it completely.
I have considered all of the evidence carefully, but it doesnt persuade me that Mr and Mrs S 
sold their home when they did directly because of something RBS did wrong in its 
communications in 2013. While they may well have had the requirements of the borrowing in 
mind when they chose to sell their home when they did, it seems likely that there were other 
factors involved in that decision. As such, I cant find that it would be reasonable for RBS to 
be required to pay Mr and Mrs S what they have requested.
Mr and Mrs S have also said that they dont consider the amount of compensation RBS 
offered is enough. In light of my above conclusions, I am satisfied that the £600 offered is 
sufficient.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman