DRN-2800507
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Lloyds Bank Plc has dealt with an indemnity claim he 
made against a company who Ill refer to as T. Mr H is unhappy with how he was spoken to 
by Lloyds and how his claim was handled. Hes also unhappy that Lloyds havent paid him 
the compensation they offered, or refunded the full amount to him, or agreed to refund his 
out of pocket expenses.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H made an indemnity claim for payments he made to T, from his bank 
account with Lloyds. Lloyds initially said he would be refunded £31.87 on the same day. 
However, Mr H was refunded £21.77 five days later.
Mr H complained to Lloyds about this and said he wanted to be paid the additional £9.90 he 
was told about, and he wanted his out of pocket expenses paid. 
Lloyds sent Mr H their final response letter and said:
1. The correct amount that should have been refunded was £21.77
2. It would usually be at least 48 hours before a refund would be paid into a bank 
account
3. The £21.77 had already been refunded to Mr H in September 2020
4. They were sorry about giving him incorrect information and offered to pay him £30 
compensation for the five-day delay in returning the monies to him.
 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service and our investigator requested Lloyds case file for 
his complaint. The case file included a copy of the final response letter, copies of statements 
for Mr Hs account showing the relevant transactions, and copies of their contact notes. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. She agreed that Lloyds 
had refunded the £21.77 to Mr H twice and had paid £30 compensation. She concluded that 
Lloyds had done enough to apologise for the incorrect information theyd given him over the 
phone and the poor customer service hed received.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and will not be 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. I will explain why.
After reviewing the information provided by Lloyds I can see that in September 2020, Mr H 
did make a claim in relation to four payments taken by T, from his account, which came to a 
total of £21.77. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mr Hs account statements and I can see that no other payments 
were successfully taken by T from his account, due to insufficient funds in the account. 
In September 2020, Lloyds refunded all of the payments that were due to Mr H, in relation to 
his indemnity claim, giving a total of £21.77.
I agree that it wasnt helpful that Lloyds told Mr H, in March 2021, that he would be paid 
£31.87 on the same day. I can see that this did cause Mr H some distress and 
inconvenience, so it was right for Lloyds to do something to apologise for that.
However, by paying Mr H £30 compensation for their mistakes, and by paying him a further 
£21.77 (to again refund the amounts paid to T), I think Lloyds have done enough. I therefore 
wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further in relation to Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman