DRN-3806838
The complaint
Mr W complains about his insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage), 
declining a claim under his motor insurance policy for the theft of his vehicle (and its 
subsequent recovery). Mr W also complains about the time taken to assess his claim and 
Advantages communication with him about the claim.
Any reference to Advantage in this decision includes their agents. 
In making his complaint, Mr W was supported by a representative. References to Mr W 
include his representative.
While Advantage issued a final response about the issues of the time taken to assess the 
claim and their communication with Mr W, they didnt issue a final response specifically 
about their decline of Mr Ws complaint. However, Advantage have agreed to our 
considering this aspect of Mr Ws complaint to this service. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Ws vehicle was stolen from outside his house. He contacted Advantage 
(and the police) the same day to report the theft and lodge a claim. His vehicle was 
recovered three days later by the police but had damage to the bodywork. The police also 
said they thought the vehicle had been used in various offences before its recovery.
When reporting the theft to Advantage, Mr W said the vehicle came with two keys when he 
bought it, but at the time of the theft one of the keys was broken and left in the car glove 
compartment the day before the theft (he intended to have the key repaired or replaced the 
following day). Given the key was broken (and he still had the other key) Mr W said he didnt 
know how the theft happened. 
Because of the circumstances and as a theft claim, Advantage also appointed a claims 
investigator (R) to examine the claim. R interviewed Mr W and accepted his description of 
the theft.
Advantage arranged for the recovered vehicle to be inspected by their salvage agents (C). C 
concluded the extent of the damage and the estimated cost of repair meant the vehicle was 
beyond economical repair (a Category S total loss  repairable structural damage).
Advantage considered the claim and the circumstances of the theft. They also engaged an 
independent motor engineer (S) to examine the vehicle. S concluded there was no evidence 
of forced entry to the vehicle, with the cars locks, steering lock and glass intact. S also 
carried out an electronic interrogation of the cars immobiliser and found only two keys were 
programmed to match the immobiliser. As the vehicle required both a mechanically and 
electronically matched key for the car to be started (and no evidence of tampering or forced 
entry) S concluded the vehicle could only have been stolen using one of the two keys.
 
Based on this, Advantage concluded the theft couldnt have occurred in the way described 
by Mr W, so they declined the claim. They also said they would seek reimbursement of any 
costs associated with the claim.
Unhappy at the time taken to assess the claim and how theyd communicated with him, Mr 
W complained to Advantage. In their final response, regarding the issues about the time 
taken to assess the claim and their communication with Mr W, Advantage said the nature of 
the claim (as it involved theft) meant the assessment process took longer than had the claim 
been for an accident (including additional steps by a claims investigator and the inspection 
by S). However, Advantage accepted Mr W had been mis-advised by one of their claims 
team that the claim would be handled as an accident claim (not a theft). Advantage also 
accepted there was a lack of communication throughout the claim, causing Mr W undue 
stress and inconvenience. Advantage apologised to Mr W and awarded £40 compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience.
Mr W complained to this service. The main elements of complaint were that when he took 
out the policy, he wasnt made aware that the type of claim hed made wouldnt be covered. 
He also said he had consistently made it clear the spare key was broken and had been left 
in the glove compartment ahead of being repaired or replaced. He was also unhappy 
Advantage hadnt provided him with any details about his vehicles condition, other than it 
being a total loss. Finally, he was unhappy at the delays and Advantages poor management 
of his claim, causing significant distress to him and his family. The theft of his vehicle meant 
he couldnt go to work as planned the day after, and consequently lost his temporary 
employment. His parents had to fund a temporary vehicle at a cost of £750. He wanted 
Advantage to apologise for their poor service, accept his claim and cover the costs hed 
incurred (and pay compensation for what had happened to him and his family).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Advantage hadnt acted reasonably in 
declining the claim because a broken key had been left in the vehicle. The policy clause 
covering the exclusion hadnt been drawn to Mr Ws attention when he took out the policy, 
and it was unreasonable for Advantage to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. It wasnt 
unreasonable for Mr W to think it wasnt wrong to leave the broken key in the car (pending its 
repair or replacement) out of sight. The investigator also thought Advantage hadnt shown 
the theft couldnt have happened in the way described by Mr W. The investigator thought 
Advantage should settle the claim based on the market value of the vehicle at the time of the 
theft, together with interest on the sum from the date of the theft.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said their decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, which Mr W accepted when he took out his policy. The policy exclusions were 
clearly set out in the policy booklet, and Mr W had 14 days at the inception of the policy to 
review the terms and conditions and cancel (without a fee being charged) if he didnt think 
the policy was suitable for his needs. Advantage also referred to their engineers report, 
stating there was no evidence of tampering with the vehicle or forced entry. This indicated 
the vehicle could only have been taken by one of the two keys programmed for the vehicle. 
So, the theft couldnt have occurred in the way described by Mr W.
In my findings, on the issue of whether the theft couldnt have occurred as described by Mr 
W (as Advantage maintained) I wasnt persuaded. Thats because Mr W (from what Id seen) 
simply described the sequence of events. He hadnt provided a view of how the theft may 
have occurred. 
I also thought it wasnt clear whether the vehicle was susceptible to relay theft. Nor whether 
the presence of the key inside the vehicle (notwithstanding it was broken) affected the vehicles security or made it more susceptible to theft (either by the relay method or in any 
other way). Given these uncertainties and the absence of clear evidence on these points, 
while I thought Ss report more persuasive because it was based on an expert examination of 
the vehicle, I specifically asked Mr W and Advantage to respond on this issue.
On the issue of whether it was clear (under the policy terms and conditions) claims for the 
theft of a vehicle arent covered if keys are left on or in the vehicle, I concluded Mr W should 
reasonably have been aware of the exclusion for theft claims where keys are left in the 
vehicle. While I understand what he said about the key been broken and leaving it in the car 
in order to have it repaired or replaced, by doing so it would have fallen under the exclusion, 
so I thought Advantage acted reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline his claim.
On the delays and management of the claim, Advantage accepted there was a lack of 
communication throughout the claim, causing Mr W undue stress and inconvenience. 
Considering the circumstances, I thought Advantage apologising and awarding £40 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience was reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mr W.
The main issue in Mr Ws complaint is that Advantage unfairly declined his claim for the theft 
of his vehicle. Mr W says when he took out the policy, he wasnt made aware that the type of 
claim hed made wouldnt be covered. He also said he had consistently made it clear the key 
was broken and had been left in the glove compartment ahead of being repaired or replaced. 
In declining Mr Ws claim, Advantage say, firstly, the claim wouldnt be covered as the 
evidence indicates the theft couldnt have occurred in the way he describes. Advantage also 
say theres no evidence of tampering with the vehicle or forced entry. And that the vehicle 
could only have been taken by one of the two keys programmed for the vehicle. So, the theft 
couldnt have occurred in the way described by Mr W.
They also say, secondly, under the policy terms and conditions, claims for the theft of a 
vehicle arent covered if keys are left on or in the vehicle. Advantage say their decline of the 
claim was in line with the policy terms and conditions, clearly set out in the policy booklet. Mr 
W was able to review the terms and conditions when he took put the policy (and cancel it if 
he didnt think the policy was suitable for his needs). 
On the first point, Ive considered what Mr W has said together with Advantages views 
(including the report from S). From what Mr W has said (and the case notes summarising his 
interview with the claim investigator) he left the vehicle parked on the road on the evening 
before the theft was discovered. The broken key was in the car, and Mr W said he locked the 
vehicle with the other key. When Mr W returned to the car early the following morning, it had 
gone. The claim investigator concluded hed given an honest account of what happened, and 
I have no reason to doubt what hes said.
Advantage say, based on Ss report, the vehicle could only have been taken by use of one of 
the two keys. As the vehicle was recovered, S was able to interrogate the vehicles 
immobiliser system and confirm only two keys were programmed for it, and that there were 
no other indications of the system being tampered with. 
While S concluded the vehicle could only have been taken using one of the two keys, Ive 
considered the possibility the vehicle could have been taken by use of whats known as the relay method. Which is where an electronic device is used to fool a vehicles immobiliser 
system into thinking the vehicles key fob is nearby. Which then allows the vehicle to be 
unlocked and the engine started, enabling the vehicle to be taken. Whats not clear in this 
case is whether the nature of the vehicles immobiliser and locking system would have made 
it susceptible to relay theft (though I note Ss report states the vehicle requires both an 
electronically and mechanically matched key in order for it to be driven away). Nor whether 
the presence of the key inside the vehicle (notwithstanding it was broken) would have 
affected the vehicles security or made it more susceptible to theft (either by the relay method 
or in any other way).
On Advantages specific point that the theft couldnt have happened in the way Mr W 
described, Im not currently persuaded. Thats because Mr W has, from what Ive seen, 
simply described the sequence of events. He hasnt provided a view, as far as Im aware, of 
how the theft may have occurred. 
Given these uncertainties and the absence of clear evidence on these points, while I 
currently think Ss report is more persuasive because its based on an expert examination of 
the vehicle, I would specifically request Mr W and Advantage to respond on this issue.
On the second point, Advantage refer to an exclusion in the policy booklet. Under the section 
General exceptions theres a sub-heading Your policy doesnt cover the following which 
includes the following statement:
3. Theft claims
Youre not covered for any claim for the theft of your car unless:

Your car was fully locked and secured and any keys that unlock it were 
removed.

Having considered both Mr Ws view and that of Advantage, Ive concluded he should 
reasonably have been aware of the exclusion for theft claims where keys are left in the 
vehicle (any keys that unlock it were removed in the above policy extract). The policy 
booklet would have been provided as part of the issue of the policy when it was taken out 
and Mr W would have been able to see the exclusion in the policy document. The exclusion 
from cover where keys are left in a vehicle is also standard industry practice for motor 
insurance policies. 
While I havent seen the policy schedule document issued when the policy was taken out, I 
have seen the cover summary document issued when Mr W changed his vehicle following 
the theft. The schedule includes a section headed Significant policy exclusions and 
limitations which includes the statement:
some exclusions and limitations apply to your car insurance. Heres a summary of 
the most significant ones (see your car policy document).
Youre not covered for theft of or damage to your car, if the keys, lock transmitters or 
other devices that unlock or start your car were left in or on it or unattended with the 
engine running.
Taking these together, I think Mr W should reasonably have been aware of the exclusion. 
While I understand what hes said about the key been broken and leaving it in the car in 
order for it to have been repaired or replaced, by doing so it would have fallen under the above exclusion, so I think Advantage have acted reasonably in applying the exclusion to 
decline his claim.
Mr W is also unhappy at the delays and Advantages poor management of his claim, causing 
significant distress to him and his family. Advantage say the nature of the claim (as it 
involved theft) means the assessment process took longer than had the claim been for an 
accident. But they accepted Mr W had been mis-advised by one of their claims team that the 
claim would be handled as an accident claim (not a theft). Advantage also accepted there 
was a lack of communication throughout the claim, causing Mr W undue stress and 
inconvenience.
Ive thought about this issue carefully, together with the sequence of events described by Mr 
W and Advantages case notes. I think its reasonable that additional steps are taken in 
cases of vehicle theft, which is what happened here. And as Mr Ws vehicle was recovered, 
it wasnt unreasonable for Advantage to engage S to examine the vehicle. But I note 
Advantage have accepted, in their final response, Mr W had been mis-advised that the claim 
would be handled as an accident claim (not a theft). And there was a lack of communication 
throughout the claim, causing Mr W undue stress and inconvenience. Considering the 
circumstances, I think Advantage apologising and awarding £40 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience is reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W responded to make several points. Id want to reassure him Ive considered them all. 
But Ive set out those I think are directly relevant to the complaint and my provisional 
decision. 
First, he said it was evident the terms of the cover provided under the policy were available 
and provided, but he thought for the majority of people, support and guidance from their 
insurer was essential, together with timely advice through the claims process. 
He also said hed told Advantage about the details of the claim (what had happened) both 
initially and throughout the claims process. And those details hadnt changed. Advantage 
hadnt, at any time, told him the circumstances would (or could) invalidate the claim. Had 
they done so, he could have potentially withdrawn his claim (and arranged for the return of 
his vehicle). Advantage had also wrongly advised (initially) the claim would be treated as an 
accident claim.
Mr W also said he hadnt been able to inspect the vehicle (due to the location it was taken to 
after being recovered) and so couldnt make an informed choice. Mr W thought the vehicle 
had been sold (after having been classified as a Category S total loss). Mr W also said he 
wasnt advised that (as part of the claims process) Advantage would take ownership of the 
vehicle (and sell it, or otherwise dispose of it).
Advantage responded to say they agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage have acted fairly towards Mr W.Ive considered Mr Ws points carefully. His first point, about it being evident the terms and 
conditions of the policy were available and provided, is consistent with my conclusions in the 
provisional decision that he should reasonably have been aware of the exclusion for theft 
claims where keys are left in the vehicle. And that the policy booklet would have been 
provided as part of the issue of the policy when it was taken out and Mr W would have been 
able to see the exclusion in the document. So, I havent changed my view that Mr W should 
reasonably have been aware of the exclusion, and that by leaving the key in the car, it would 
have fallen under the exclusion. So, I havent changed my conclusion Advantage acted 
reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline his claim.
On the point about timely advice and guidance, Advantage accept Mr W had initially been 
mis-advised by one of their claims team that the claim would be handled as an accident 
claim (not a theft). Advantage also accepted there was a lack of communication throughout 
the claim, causing Mr W undue stress and inconvenience. Advantage have apologised to Mr 
W and awarded £40 compensation for the stress and inconvenience, which I think is 
reasonable.
While he was initially mis-advised, it was subsequently made clear Advantage were treating 
the claim as a theft claim. And they followed their claims process in such circumstances. And 
they did advise Mr W they were declining the claim because of the exclusion for keys left in 
the vehicle. I accept Mr W gave his account of what happened, and this was consistent. I 
also noted in my provisional decision that Advantages claims investigator concluded hed 
given an honest account of what happened, and I had no reason to doubt what Mr W had 
said. hes said. While Mr W could have withdrawn his claim, that wouldnt have affected the 
outcome (Advantage wouldnt cover the damage or total loss of the vehicle). 
Mr Ws final points relate to what happened to his vehicle, following decline of his claim. As 
Mr Ws complaint was about Advantages decision to decline his claim (and delays in the 
process and lack of communication) this isnt something for me to consider as part of this 
decision. 
But my understanding, from an exchange Ive seen between Mr W and C, is that Mr W was 
given the option of either putting the vehicle into auction (which would mean having to clear 
any outstanding charges and pay a sellers fee) and complete a consignment form. Or 
completing an end of life form and returning it to C, under which the vehicle would be 
signed over to C for them to dispose of. This wouldnt have involved a fee - but would mean 
Mr W wouldnt receive any proceeds from the disposal. In the exchange, Mr W requests the 
vehicle is disposed of via auction. This suggests it was the former option of the two  but this 
is something for Mr W to raise with C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman