DRN-2652966
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly avoided his motor
insurance policy and later sought payment from him for the cost of an accident.
What happened
In 2015 the named driver on Mr Ws policy (his partner) was involved in an accident. In
validating the claim Admiral noted that when he applied for the policy, Mr W had said hed
held a full driving licence for four years. But it emerged that at the time he only had a
provisional licence, although his partner had held a full one for four years.
Mr W said he thought hed entered the right details when he applied for the policy online. He
said he hadnt received any policy documents, but Admiral said they were sent to him by
post and were also available to view online. It said the online portal had been accessed, but
Mr W said that must have been by his partner, who wouldnt have checked his details.
Admiral told Mr W it would be avoiding the policy and wouldnt provide cover for the
accident. It said it would deal with the other drivers claim, if Mr W later repaid any sums paid
by Admiral. Mr W agreed to that in writing. Around that time Mr W says he spoke to
Admirals advisor (T) about it retaining his premium. Mr W understood advisor T to say that
he wouldnt have to pay anything further. But in June 2019 Admiral wrote to him to say its
outlay on the claim was £12,263.19 and that it required payment from Mr W.
Mr W complained that this contradicted advisor Ts assurance. He said hed given the
correct details when buying the policy - and that he hadnt heard from Admiral for five years.
Admiral said the recording of the call with advisor T in 2015 was no longer available, but it
had the notes he made at the time. They showed hed said Mr Ws premium would be kept
to put towards the costs of the claim - and that Admiral would contact Mr W again when the
claim was settled (and the full costs of it were known).
Admiral said its records showed Mr W had entered the wrong details when he applied
for the policy - and it seemed he hadnt checked the documents afterwards. It said the
claim took a long time to settle and accepted that it should have updated him during that
period. Admiral offered Mr W £50 compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She said as Admiral had avoided the
policy based on Mr W having misrepresented the facts, shed need to see a copy of the
question he was asked and his response. She said shed seen no evidence that if Mr W had
told Admiral he had a provisional licence, it wouldnt have offered him cover. The investigator
said Admiral shouldnt seek reimbursement from Mr W, but that he should pay any relevant
increase in premium if it would have charged him more for provisional licence cover.
Admiral said it had provided documentary evidence of the details Mr W had submitted. It 
said had he told it he had a provisional licence at the start, it would still have offered him 
cover. But it thought hed deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the facts, so it was fair to 
avoid the policy. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, if the misrepresentation is
what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying
misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would only have offered the policy on different
terms (or not at all) if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate  and an insurer can show it would at
least only have offered the policy on different terms  its entitled to avoid the consumers
policy. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it wont have to deal with any claims under
it. But if the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer
must show it wouldnt have offered the policy at all, but for the misrepresentation.
Some of the details an insurer requires (such as those about a consumers driving record, for
example) are obtained by asking the sort of questions where just a slight difference in the
wording may lead to a consumer providing the wrong answer. In cases like that, in the
absence of evidence of the exact question asked, Id say the insurer couldnt show that there
had been a misrepresentation of the facts. But in this case, all Admiral wanted to know was
what type of driving licence Mr W held.
As Mr W didnt complain about the policy avoidance in 2015, a very long period of time
elapsed before Admiral had to investigate the issue. I think it was to be expected that many
records from 2015 werent available by 2020. Admiral isnt able to show the question that he
was asked. But it has shown the details recorded on its system following the electronic
transfer of data from the website Mr W used initially.
I think its very unlikely that a misleading or unclear question was asked about what type of
licence Mr W held. And when discussing it in 2015, Mr W didnt suggest that he was
confused by the question hed been asked. So in this case, I think its fair and reasonable to
assume that a clear question was put to him about the type of licence he held.
From what Ive seen, I think Mr W gave the wrong answer to the question. He told us that his
partner had held a full licence for four years, whilst hed held a provisional licence for many
more years than that at the time. Mr W thinks thats what he said on the application form,
and that Admiral got the details mixed up, probably through human error.
Given the electronic transfer of information to Admiral, I think its far more likely that Mr W
entered the wrong details on the website. He says he didnt get the policy documents
through the post, although I think its more likely than not that Admiral sent them out. And he
says he wasnt aware that he could check them online. But the online portal was accessed
by his partner. So I think Mr W had the chance to do that, too.
I think Admiral can show that Mr W provided the wrong details about his driving licence, and
I dont think he took reasonable care when answering the question about it. Whether Admiral
can take action as a result of that depends on whether it can show that he made a qualifyingmisrepresentation. Admiral hasnt provided the underwriting criteria from 2015, but it has
accepted that had it known Mr W only had a provisional licence, it would still have offered
him cover, on different terms. So I think Mr W made a qualifying misrepresentation.
As Mr Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one, the remedy Admiral has depends on
whether he made the misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly, or just carelessly. Admiral
says he did so deliberately, but it hasnt explained how it reached that conclusion.
If Admiral thinks Mr W acted deliberately or recklessly (not caring whether the details he
gave were right or not) it has to show thats the case, and I dont think it has done that. In
my opinion, the evidence points to Mr W having made a careless error. As his partner had
held a full licence for four years, I think it would have been easy for him to enter those details
against his own name in error. And from what hes said, I dont think Mr W realised there
may be an advantage to him in stating that he had a full licence. I dont think Admiral can
show thats what he had in mind when he completed the application.
As I think Mr Ws misrepresentation was only careless, I dont think Admiral was entitled to
avoid the policy, so I think it should remove any record of the voidance from internal and
external records. I think it should only require Mr W to reimburse it with a proportion of the
sum it has paid on the claim, in line with the proportion of extra premium he would have
been required to pay to reflect his provisional licence status.
Admiral paid Mr W £50 for failing to send him updates about the ongoing claim. There was
nothing to report until 2019 (as the claim wasnt settled until then). But I think it was poor
service not to advise him - on an annual basis at least - that the claim was still open. Mr W
says he was shocked to hear from Admiral given the lengthy gap in contact and that he
believed his involvement in the claim had ended in 2015. I think his shock and confusion was
genuine, but thats because he had misunderstood what was agreed at that time. He was put
on notice in 2015 that Admiral would contact him for payment when the claim was settled.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr W only £50
compensation for poor contact. But I think he was also distressed by the avoidance of the
policy and by being chased for full payment of the claim. In my opinion, it would be fair and
reasonable for Admiral to pay him a further £200 compensation for distress and
inconvenience based on that.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. Mr W only asked for clarification, but
Admiral disagreed with my findings and provided more information for consideration.
Admiral said the evidence showed that Mr Ws misrepresentation was at least reckless. It
said he wouldnt have been able to move on in the process and add the named drivers
details until after his own details had been added. That meant there was no chance of the
two being mixed up carelessly.
It said that after adding all the information, Mr W would have seen a summary screen, 
showing the details of each driver, which he would have had to agree to. So if he had given 
the wrong details, he had a chance to correct them before proceeding with the policy.
Admiral said the portal was accessed and that it was for Mr W to check the details shown in 
it. It said if he failed to do so hed acted recklessly, and if he did so but didnt then correct the
wrong details, the misrepresentation was deliberate. It also pointed out that he didnt
challenge the policy avoidance in 2015, when all the records were in place.
I issued a further provisional decision, in which I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint , based on the following points:It was far more likely than not that Mr W gave the wrong details online, as Admirals 
records show the wrong information was recorded in 2015
If Mr W had to enter his own details before moving on, it was hard to see how he 
could have mixed up the details between him and his partner. And he has always 
said he provided the correct details, which he cant show is the case 
If a summary screen had to be checked before moving on again, it seems Mr W 
acted recklessly in mot checking that hed entered the wrong details 
Admiral cant show that Mr W provided the wrong information deliberately, but given 
the process he went through, it seems he acted recklessly, not caring whether the 
details hed given Admiral were correct and by not checking them. 
If Mr W didnt get the documents by post, he could have asked Admiral for them. He 
accepts that the online portal was available, and his account was accessed, but he 
didnt check the documents held there to ensure the details hed provided were right
In response, Mr W said again that he wasnt told in 2015 hed have to pay anything more to 
Admiral - so he was lied to - and thats why he didnt complain about its decision to avoid the 
policy at the time. He repeated that he got no information from Admiral after the policy was 
set up. He said although he may have accessed the portal, he thought the policy was set up 
correctly. He said Admirals systems had changed since 2015 and so had the questions it 
asked. He said Admiral paid him £50 for promising a further letter in 2019 and then not 
issuing it  rather than for its lack of contact until then. Mr W also said that Admiral told him it 
would have amended the policy and charged an extra premium had his provisional licence 
not expired. But as it hadnt expired, he said there was no reason it couldnt have done that.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals final response letter said it would pay Mr W £50 for its overall lack of contact, not 
for failing to send him a letter. I havent seen any evidence to the contrary. 
Despite Mr Ws recollection of what happened in 2015, theres written evidence that Admiral 
said it would contact him when it knew the full cost of the claim  and that he agreed to 
refund Admiral for its outlay.
If Mr W didnt agree at the time with the policy being avoided on the basis that he had 
deliberately, or at least recklessly, provided inaccurate details to Admiral,  theres no reason 
why he couldnt have complained about it then, when all the documents were in place, and 
no potential changes to Admirals systems had been made. Instead, he appears to have 
accepted it at that time  and in my opinion, that wasnt because Admiral had lied to him 
about future costs; I think it has shown it didnt do that. And Admirals decision wasnt just 
about Mr W having to refund its future outlay on the claim. I think most consumers would 
have wanted to dispute a record of having given the wrong details to an insurer, on principle 
alone - as well as to avoid any future problems that may arise as a result of the avoidance. 
Some of Admirals systems may have changed since 2015, but its IT records show that 
when asked what type of licence he had , Mr W responded that he had a full one. I can see 
from Admirals file that there was some discussion about whether it would cover the claim, 
despite Mr W only having a provisional licence. The notes show he said hed had that 
licence for about 10 years, but that he told Admiral it had expired a few months before the 
accident. I cant see why Mr W would have said that to Admiral if the licence hadnt expired. And the DVLA appears to have confirmed it at the time, although Mr W later said it told him 
his provisional licence was valid until he got a full one in 2019.
I think Admiral would have had to cover Mr Ws claim had it concluded that his 
misrepresentation was careless. But it thought  hed acted recklessly in providing inaccurate 
information to it. In those circumstances, it decided that avoiding the policy was appropriate 
under CIDRA, which I think is correct. I can see why Mr W would have been confused by the 
debate about  the expiry of his licence and any impact it may have on the policy avoidance. 
But the major issue was always that hed provided the wrong details to Admiral and didnt 
take the opportunity to correct them.   
I appreciate that Admirals decision will have severe financial implications for Mr W. The sum 
paid on the claim was substantial, although he may be able to agree an acceptable payment 
plan with it. But taking everything into account, for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably in deciding that Mr W had acted recklessly. So I cant uphold his 
complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman