DRN-2935105
The complaint
Miss S complains about the charges that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), applied when she handed back a car she had acquired 
under a conditional sale agreement.
When I refer to what Miss S has said, and BPF have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In April 2018, Miss S entered into a conditional sale agreement with BPF to acquire a used 
car that was first registered in the UK in June 2014. The cash price of the car was £6,500. 
The agreement was for 60 months.
Miss S handed back the car in September 2020 when she exercised her right of Voluntary 
Termination (VT). She says her father dropped off the car at the designated auction house 
for her, but as she had not heard anything from BPF she gave them a call at the beginning of 
October 2020. To her surprise, she says that BPF told her that she shouldve received a 
letter regarding extra charges that she owed. She says that due to the lack of 
communication from BPF they paid her £75 compensation. When she finally received the 
letter from BPF, she noticed that they asked her to pay £675 for damages to the car. This 
was for damages to the car that BPF considered were outside of fair wear and tear. 
Miss S though this was unfair, because when she purchased the car it was used, and she 
says that the very small minor marks on the car were already present. She also says that 
this damage couldve also happened at the auction house after it was dropped off by her 
father. Also, she is unhappy about the customer service she has received when trying to sort 
this with BPF, she says she had to chase them, and, at times, she says they havent replied 
to some of her correspondence. Overall, she doesnt think that she should have to pay the 
£675, and that her credit file should not be affected by what has happened. 
BPF say they are satisfied that the wear and tear charges have been applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the finance agreement, and that Miss S was informed in writing and 
verbally of the VT process. They say that as part of the VT process explanation, she was 
told that a condition charge may be applied once the car had been assessed. They say a 
damage assessment report was completed when the car was dropped off at the auction 
house. The total damage listed added up to approximately £1,876. They say the car had a 
CAP average value of £3,475 but sold at the auction house for £2,800. So, they charged 
Miss S only £675, because this was the difference between what the car was sold for and 
what the CAP average value of the car was at the time. As such, they thought the damage 
had affected the value of the car by this amount. They also said that they paid Miss S £75 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused due to lack of communication. 
Miss S was unhappy with BPF so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
Miss S disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint. But I want to assure both 
parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues to reach a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss S acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Miss Ss agreement 
with BPF sets out that she needs to keep and maintain the car in a good state of repair and 
condition. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here,
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body,
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). This guidance is generally 
intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of their first finance agreement, so 
it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few years old. But it can also be used 
for older cars, where the age of a car and the number of miles it has covered are taken into 
account, when considering what would be deemed fair wear and tear. Ive also considered 
that the BVRLA guidance is just that - guidance. While I take it into consideration, I also 
need to take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the situation here. So, I think it 
is fair that any damage is assessed by considering whether its reasonable to expect this 
type of damage, given the cars age and mileage.
The car was around four years old, when Miss S got it. It had travelled more than 52,500 
miles and had a cash price of £6,500. Which I think, most likely was consistent with a car in 
a good condition. Ive also taken into consideration the work that was done on the car before 
Miss S took possession of it. From the invoices provided by BPF, among other work that was 
done, I can see the car had a valet, it was polished all around, and had touch ups all around 
too. It also had all four alloys refurbished and other parts of the cars body repaired. So 
overall, I think the car was in a good condition when Miss S acquired it. 
When Miss S handed back the car in September 2020, it was approximately six years old 
and had travelled almost 70,000 miles. I can see that the car had a CAP average value of 
£3,475. The damage assessment report that was completed on the 8 September 2020, 
when the car was dropped off at the auction, lists damaged totalling approximately £1,876. 
About a week later the car was sold for £2,800. So, BPF charged Miss S £675, because this 
was the difference between what the car was sold for and what the CAP average value of 
the car was at the time. Ive reviewed the damage assessment report which was done by the auction house when 
the car was dropped off. And in deciding whether BPF have acted fairly in relation to each 
charge, Ive taken into consideration the terms and conditions of the conditional sale 
agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was 
returned. 
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheels 
fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. There should be no rust or corrosion on 
the alloy wheels. From the pictures provided in the inspection report, I can see that two of 
the four alloy wheels have scuffs that are each more than 50mm. The third alloy wheel has 
scuffed spoke damage. And the fourth has corrosion/rust on it. 
Dents
The BVRLA guidance sets out that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable 
provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. There 
are six dents listed on the report which are all greater than 15mm. 
Scuffs, scratches and other paint blemishes
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out and provided 
that there are a maximum of up to four surface scratches on one panel. From the report I 
can see that there were numerous scratches with some being greater than 25mm, and at 
least one panel having more than four showing. There are also other paint issues with some 
of the exterior parts of the car. 
Chips
The BVRLA guidance sets out that chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
they are not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and 
eight chips on any forward-facing panel is permitted. The front left door has multiple chips as 
well as the rear A post. 
Upholstery and trim 
The BVRLA guidance says that the upholstery and trim must be clean with no burns, 
scratches, tears, dents or staining. From the report I can see that there is a burn in the 
carpet and one on the front seat cover. Some of the upholstery is also soiled. 
I think most likely all the above are more than fair wear and tear considering the 
circumstances. I know that Miss S on one occasion told us that when she purchased the car 
it was used, so she says that the very small minor marks were already present. But like I 
said above, Ive also taken into consideration the work that was done on the car before Miss 
S took possession of it. Considering the car had all four alloys refurbished, it was polished all 
around and touched up, I think most likely the damage listed above was not present when 
she took possession of it. And Miss S has not provided any such proof to back up her 
testimony that the car was already damaged, so Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for BPF 
to charge for the damage. On another occasion Miss S has asserted that the damage must have happened at the 
auction house after the car was dropped off. So, Ive also thought about whether its more 
likely than not that the auction house damaged the car before it was sold. But, some of the 
damage is not consistent with the damage that would be caused within a short period of 
time, such as rust for example, which usually forms over time. And Ive not been presented 
with anything persuasive to make me think that it is more likely than not, that the auction 
house were the ones that caused the damage to the car. So, taking everything into account, 
on balance, I feel that its most likely the damage was caused before the inspection. 
I know that Miss S was also unhappy about the customer service she has received when 
trying to sort this out with BPF. She says that at times she had to chase them and that they 
havent replied to some of her correspondence. So, I think the matter has caused her some 
distress and inconvenience. But I think the £75 compensation, already paid by BPF, is a fair 
and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused for the service issues 
Miss S has experienced.
Whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss S, looking at all the 
evidence available to me, I think, on balance, it was fair and reasonable for BPF to charge 
her for the damage. So, Im not asking BPF to pay her back any of the money she paid them 
for the damage to the car.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman