DRN-2751385
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) declined a claim she made 
for a damaged television. She adds that after the claim had been declined she was passed 
around several departments and spent considerable time on the telephone speaking with 
various agents. 
What happened
On 14 January, Mrs B contacted DG to tell them her television wasnt working. She told DG 
thered been an earlier power-cut and when the television was switched back on, it started 
smoking and sparking. Mrs B Told DG shed unplugged the television and placed it outside 
for safety reasons. DG arranged for an engineer to call and inspect the television on 19 
January and asked Mrs B to bring the television back indoors so that it could be inspected.
The engineer reported to DG on 18 January that the television couldnt be inspected as Mrs 
B no longer had it. Mrs B told DG the television had been collected from outside her home 
by her local binmen. DG declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
because Mrs B hadnt made the television available for inspection.
Mrs B complained to DG on 21 January and they issued a final response on 26 January. DG 
upheld part of Mrs Bs complaint and apologised that she had been passed through to 
several different departments when she wanted to discuss the declined claim. However, DG 
confirmed that because the engineer couldnt inspect the television they were unable to 
assess the damage. DG cancelled the policy, because Mrs B confirmed she no longer had 
the television, and refunded the premium Mrs B had paid for the cover.
Mrs B wasnt happy with the final response and brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things for Mrs B and thought that DG didnt do anything wrong 
when they declined the claim. Our investigator thought the apology DG provided to Mrs B for 
the difficulty she experienced contacting them was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator and said that when she spoke with DG she hadnt 
initially been told the television needed to be inspected. She said that the engineer who 
called her on 18 January told her that television was likely a write off. Mrs B asked for an 
ombudsman to decide her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed with my final decision, but I wont be asking DG to 
do anything further. I will now explain why.
In the call on 14 January, Mrs B explained to DG the television was smoking and sparking, 
and the picture had lines on it. She said she had placed it outside as she was worried about 
its safety. Im satisfied that initially DG agreed this was the safest thing to do in the 
circumstances. However, at the end of the call DG did make it clear to Mrs B the television 
needed to be inspected and that it should be brought inside. Although Mrs B was told this, it 
seems likely that it was left outside, and four days later was taken by the local binmen. When 
Mrs B spoke with the engineer the day before the inspection had been arranged, she told the 
engineer the television had been taken earlier that day. 
Mrs B said the engineer told her the television would be a write-off during the telephone call 
on 18 January. DG say they spoke with the business asked to inspect the television and they 
confirmed this isnt something the engineer would say. So, I looked at what is likely to have 
happened here.
Mrs B spoke with the engineer on 18 January, and by this time the television was no longer 
in her possession. Although the call took place a day earlier than the planned visit by the 
engineer, it was don so because Mrs B was pregnant and shielding from Covid-19. There 
may well have been a conversation about what happened when the television stopped 
working, but unfortunately there is no call recording available to verify the context of this 
conversation. However, Ive seen that on 18 January the engineer confirmed to DG that the 
television couldnt be inspected because Mrs B no longer had it. I consider it unlikely the 
engineer would tell Mrs B theyd assessed the television as a write-off if they hadnt seen it. 
Instead, I consider its more likely the engineer reported the television as no longer available 
for inspection as this is the basis of the assessment they were asked to carry out.
I do understand why Mrs B wouldve taken the television outside when it was smoking and 
sparking. However, Im satisfied DG explained to Mrs B the television should be brought 
inside and kept safe as it would need to be inspected by the engineer so the damage could 
be assessed. The terms and conditions of Mrs Bs insurance with DG say that she should 
make the product accessible for inspection. And, because the television was no longer 
available to inspect, I consider it was reasonable for DG to decline the claim. And, because 
Mrs B no longer had the television, it seems reasonable that DG cancelled the cover and 
refunded the premium Mrs B paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman