DRN-3624055
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2016, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook acknowledged the complaint but did not respond substantively.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had placed too much weight on the sales documentation (Ps quote);
in particular, the quote had been generated and sent to Mr C after the sales meeting, 
and the salesman had not gone through it with him at the meeting, so the only 
opportunity for Mr C to review it had been post-sale;
this puts the onus on customers to review and understand the quote post-sale and 
then to cancel the contract and the loan;
the quote emphasizes the time it will take for the system to pay for its cash price 
rather than the total amount repayable under the loan agreement;
P had been subject to a RECC disciplinary investigation in 2013 for over-selling, 
which suggested that it had not been complying with relevant industry standards;
the High Court had upheld a claim for misrepresentation of solar panels in 2021 
(albeit those panels had been sold by a different supplier);1
the CMC provided two documents (the training documents) which P appears to 
1 Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm)
have used to train its sales staff, which the CMC said are evidence that supports 
Mr Cs claim that the salesman promised that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset;
the system was such a poor investment that the only rational explanation for Mr C 
buying it was that P must have misled him about the expected financial returns.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Documents: quote, credit agreement, training documents, and judgement
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation, and the training 
documents. Ive considered these, along with Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the APR, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the 
contractual monthly repayments.
The training documents are two documents created by P, one called How does it work? 
and one which is untitled. These are two-page documents setting out information about how 
the system saves money for the purchaser and pays for the loan. In summary, they both 
contain clear and unequivocal promises that the purchaser will not have to make any 
contribution towards the loan repayments because these will be covered by the returns from 
the system. It has not been suggested that Mr C actually saw these documents; rather, P 
used them to train its salespeople. Therefore the CMC argues (not unreasonably) that the 
probative value of these documents is that, if this is how the salesman who met Mr C was 
trained to describe and explain the system, then this strongly supports Mr Cs recollection of 
what he was told. The bold statements in the short training documents contradict the quote, 
which is 24 pages long and full of detail.
The training documents are undated. However, How does it work? contains a FIT tariff 
which dates from November 2012 to June 2013, so I infer that this document must have 
been produced during that period. I am aware of the RECC disciplinary proceedings against 
P in 2013. I believe that the format of the quote like the one used in Mr Cs case was 
adopted in 2014, following guidance from trading standards officials. For these reasons, it 
seems likely to me that the other training document probably also dates from 2013 or earlier.
The How does it work? document specifically calls the loan a solarloan (one word; the 
correct style is SolarLoan). This was not a Shawbrook product, but was a pay as you 
save loan provided by a third party called Engensa Limited (which went into liquidation in 
February 2014 and was dissolved in 2017). The untitled training document does not refer to 
the SolarLoan by name but it does appear to describe it, so Im satisfied that this document 
is about the SolarLoan too.
As Ive said, Mr C was approached by P in May 2016, and he was sold a Shawbrook loan 
not an Engensa SolarLoan. So I think that by then the training documents would have been 
obsolete, and that they do not represent what Ps salespeople were telling prospective 
customers in 2016. They are a red herring.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr C, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr C has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Cs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. To be clear, its 
relevance is not that customers had the opportunity to read it and then cancel the contract if 
they were not satisfied; it is that on the balance of probabilities, I think that the salesmans 
pitch to Mr C would have been consistent with what it says in the quote.
I do not think the court judgement assists me, as that case was about a different supplier, 
whose sales documentation was different to Ps.FIT payments and savings
Mr C has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Cs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £171.54, which results in an average monthly income of £14.30. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £71.38. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr C was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £295.67 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £590.09. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £71.38. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £72.56, but the difference  £1.18  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments until year eight.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr C wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Cs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, from page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed that 
the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.18 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr C could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that early in year ten the overall benefits that Mr C could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £6,780.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £13,160.80, 
would be reached by the end of year 15.
So while I agree that the quote does emphasize the time it will take for the system to pay for 
its cash price over the total amount repayable under the loan agreement, I do not think that 
matters, since P still told Mr C that the system would pay for the loan within the loan term. 
And while I accept that better alternative investments were available to Mr C, it does not 
follow that P must have lied to him to induce him to choose to buy the system instead.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for its cash 
price in ten years (actually it was closer to nine years), and for the loan in 15 years, as 
supported by the table above, which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and if Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and that he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mr C.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,532 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Cs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,284 kWh a year. This is somewhat less than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
but it is still within 90% of Ps estimate, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected, at least in terms of energy generation, if not financially. So if Mr C has not seen 
the financial returns he was expecting, the reason is not because the system is defective, 
but for some other cause.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr C hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman