DRN-3757746
The complaint
Mr M has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with NewDay (trading as Aqua) in April 2021. His credit 
limit was £900. In August 2021 it was increased to £1,200. 
Mr M is represented by a claims management company, but to keep things simple I will refer 
only to Mr M.
Mr M suggests that NewDay shouldnt have allowed him to open an account or increased his 
credit limit.  Mr M says there were failings related to irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
although he is no more explicit than that. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ms complaint should not be upheld. They thought that on 
the evidence available NewDay had not done anything wrong. 
Mr M disagreed. He hasnt made it clear why he disagreed.  As Mr M disagreed the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ms complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include things 
like understanding Mr Ms income, the total amount Mr M borrowed, and the length of time 
Mr M had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Mr M opened his account NewDay conducted a creditworthiness assessment. 
NewDay says that this included a review of information from credit reference agencies, 
information provided by Mr M about his income and circumstances and data which estimated 
his essential expenses. NewDay told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on 
the checks it did. 
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances. And when Ive reviewed the 
checks I think they showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable for Mr M. There 
were no signs of financial difficulty and no evidence of any defaults, arrears, CCJs, payday 
loans or bankruptcy. Mr Ms income indicated hed likely have enough disposable income to 
meet his repayments. So, I dont think NewDay acted irresponsibly when it approved the 
credit card.
Four months after Mr M opened the account his credit limit was increased to £1,200. He 
hadnt incurred any late payment fees or been over his limit and he was making payments 
above the minimum requirement payment. 
The checks showed that he did have £6,000 of other unsecured debt and that he had an 
active payday loan. But these matters on their own wouldnt necessarily mean the lending 
was irresponsible or unaffordable. We asked Mr M to provide more information about his 
financial circumstances at the time, but he chose not to provide it.
 
Without more information I cant safely say that the decision to increase his credit limit was 
irresponsible or that NewDay made an unfair lending decision. So, I cant fairly say NewDay 
did anything wrong or that Mr M lost out as a result of anything NewDay might have done 
wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It follows that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, does not need 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman