DRN-3440503
The complaint
C  a limited company is unhappy with how GoCardless Limited acted when a number of 
direct debit payments were claimed back by Cs customers under the Direct Debit guarantee 
scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both C and GoCardless. I wont repeat in 
any great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
C is a limited company that offers unsecured short-term finance to other businesses. C took 
out a Payment Services Agreement with GoCardless. In summary, GoCardless process 
direct debit payments on behalf of C.
Around 2019, C was notified that a large number of direct debit payments were being 
claimed back by a number of customers under the Direct Debit guarantee scheme. C felt 
that GoCardless were negligent when handling these claims as they say they were 
fraudulent claims and raised a complaint with GoCardless. 
GoCardless didnt uphold the complaint in a final response letter dated 24 May 2019. 
GoCardless later objected to our Service investigating the complaint addressed in 2019 
under the relevant DISP rules as C didnt refer their complaint to this Service within 6 months 
of that response.
In February 2021 C raised another complaint with GoCardless about broadly similar issues - 
and some new issues. Another final response letter was issued in March 2021, not 
upholding the complaint and C did refer that complaint to our Service in time.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that the issues addressed in 
the 2019 final response letter had been referred out of time  so our Service couldnt 
investigate those. But he did investigate the issues addressed in the 2021 final response 
letter and recommended that the complaint not be upheld.
C remained unhappy and the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I recently sent 
both parties a copy of my jurisdiction decision outlining that our Service wouldnt be 
considering the parts of this complaint addressed by a final response letter in 2019 as those 
issues had been referred to this Service outside of the time limits that must apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised and C has provided detailed evidence  
submissions, my decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to 
this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As outlined above, C have complained twice to GoCardless about some of the same issues. 
GoCardless have said they didnt notice that theyd previously addressed the issues in an 
earlier final response letter and sent another final response letter. 
Our investigator has already pointed out that there was some crossover between the 
transactions C complained about in 2019 and 2021. I agree. It's important to state that my 
decision will only be addressing the new issues addressed in the 2021 final response letter. 
That is - the issues around direct debit payments totalling around £29,000 being claimed 
back by some of Cs customers under the Direct Debit guarantee scheme. 
Throughout my decision Ill refer to the transactions in question here as being claimed back. 
This is an important distinction as reference has been made to chargebacks in this 
complaint. Thats a different process, typically related to disputed credit card transactions 
and - in some cases, debit card transactions. 
The direct debit guarantee scheme 
The payments in question here were made by direct debit. So it follows that the Direct Debit 
scheme rules apply.
In summary, the scheme rules offer customers protection and peace of mind, that if 
something goes wrong or theres been an error with their payment, they can try to claim back 
what theyve paid. The customer generally will contact their bank and if they agree with the 
validity of their claim, will then automatically collect the funds paid to C from GoCardless. 
GoCardless in turn then collects the money owed to it from C.
Its very important to point out here that the paying bank  not GoCardless assess the 
legitimacy of any claim. 
C allege that GoCardless have been negligent and thats given rise to the claim backs being 
made. Ive seen no sufficiently persuasive evidence that GoCardless have been negligent. 
Under the relevant scheme rules applicable here, there are no grounds for challenging these 
claim backs - except in very limited circumstances. Typically - where GoCardless have made 
an administrative error. And for one of the claim back codes (where the payer has cancelled 
the direct debit instruction with the service user) there are no grounds at all for challenging.
Ive not seen sufficient supporting evidence to conclude that GoCardless have made an 
error. So it follows that they werent unreasonable in not being able to challenge the clam 
backs in line with the scheme rules.
The agreement between GoCardless and C
Ive then considered the agreement between C and GoCardless. Of relevance here are the 
following terms:
You acknowledge that GoCardless is not able to recover or challenge any 
Chargeback that relates to a Payment Order that has, from an administrative 
standpoint and in relation to the Payment Scheme, been submitted correctly. For 
example, if a Customer initiates a Chargeback that results in that Customer 
being in breach of their contract with you, GoCardless cannot challenge the Chargeback or recover the funds to which that Chargeback relates [bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman].
And:
You shall indemnify GoCardless in respect of any amounts and costs incurred as a 
result of any Chargeback, claim or refund (fraudulent or otherwise) initiated by a 
Customer and that GoCardless is obliged to make under the relevant Payment 
Scheme Rules. For the avoidance of doubt, GoCardless may not claim under this
indemnity where any amounts or costs incurred arise as a result of GoCardless 
negligence, default, mismanagement or mistake.
if a Customer initiates a Chargeback that results in that Customer being in 
breach of their contract with you, GoCardless cannot challenge the 
Chargeback or recover the funds to which that Chargeback relates [bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman]
Im satisfied the terms make it clear what the role of GoCardless will be in a dispute and I 
find that theyve acted in line with the terms of their agreement with C when debiting the 
funds theyd been charged by Cs customers bank.
I understand that C strongly disputes these claims and alleges that the customer(s) have 
raised fraudulent claims. But my decision isnt considering the actions of Cs customers - 
only the actions of GoCardless. GoCardless didnt facilitate challenging claims at the time 
the claims were made.
This was made clear in the agreement and doesnt - based on the evidence presented to us, 
go against law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, 
or what is acknowledged to have been good industry practice at the time. Im therefore not 
persuaded GoCardless was wrong to not facilitate challenging the claims. At the time these 
issues arose, the decision to approve the direct debits being claimed back wasnt made or 
influenced by GoCardless - and they were limited in their involvement in the process. 
Even if GoCardless had facilitated challenging the claims at the time, I cant be satisfied the 
challenges would have been successful. I say this because here, not many of the claims had 
a valid challenge reason. And for those that did, the evidential burden was on GoCardless/C. 
And even if a challenge could be mounted on the claims with a valid challenge reason, and 
the strict procedural, evidential and time sensitive requirements were met  I cant safely say 
whether the payees bank would have accepted it.
In any case, if I were to find GoCardless should have facilitated challenging the claims at the 
time, and that those challenges would have succeeded - we couldnt fairly require 
GoCardless to reimburse C. I say this because the issue here is about a dispute between C 
and its customers. If Cs customers owe it money as a result of this matter, C will need to 
take steps to recover that money from them. 
Our Service cant advise C on what steps to take next, but I note GoCardless have made C 
aware of other avenues for them to pursue in their final response letter dated 29 March 
2021:
Fraudulently charging back a Direct Debit payment is a criminal offence, covered by 
the 2006 Fraud Act. In the event of a fraudulent chargeback/claim, should you hold a 
written agreement or contract with the customer, this agreement can be used as 
evidence (through a court system) to pursue monies that the customer has agreed to 
pay you.The following extract is summarised from GoCardless website: 
The Direct Debit Guarantee does not impact any contractual agreements between a 
merchant and their customer, and fraudulently charging back a Direct Debit payment 
is a criminal offence, covered by the 2006 Fraud Act.
Merchants also have the right to pursue their customer, for example through claims 
courts, for any money owed after a refund has been provided, if the refund puts the 
customer into a position of owing money to the merchant.
My decision will no doubt disappoint C, it brings to an end what our Service - in trying in 
trying to resolve their dispute with GoCardless can do for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman