DRN-2119167
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Policy Services Limited failed to review his pension policy on a
regular basis. He considers he has suffered financially as a result.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out the background and my 
provisional findings on 9 July 2020. 
In summary, Mr E had a personal pension plan that he started in 1989. In October 2011 an 
adviser from another firm (which I will refer to as Firm B) reviewed the pension with a view to 
transferring it. His recommendation was not to transfer. So it remained where it was. At 
around the same time Mr E signed an agreement with Policy Services to transfer the 
servicing rights and administration (of this pension) to them. 
Firm B explained the relationship as:
Policy Services are independent financial advisers who work with [Firm B] to provide
ongoing administration and advice for any existing investments outside the [Firm B] Group.
Firm B said its adviser wasnt able to provide specific advice on the personal pension
but was able to discuss it generically. And Policy Services was responsible for servicing the
personal pension.
Policy Services said it was Firm B that was the main point of contact. And although
Policy Services could provide any advice required on the personal pension, that would be on
request from Firm B. Its said the responsibility for arranging and agreeing a review plan was
with Firm Bs adviser. My understanding is that the pension plan provider would send
pension statements or pension related information to Policy Services who then forwarded
them onto Firm B.
In my provisional findings I said I thought the documents that were material were the 
following which had been provided by Policy Services.
.
The Tariff document which said, amongst other things:
1. Placing Business with Policy Services Limited
Policy Services Limited is able to act on your behalf in advising you on investments and non-
investment insurance contracts. We offer products and services as follows:
2. Ongoing Servicing Regime
As covered in our Proposition and Client Agreement PSL believe that it is vital that you
review your finances on a regular basis. In addition to your personal situation and evolving
goals, your attitude to risk is likely to change with time. It is critical that the products and
underlying funds you hold remain appropriate for your needs and that your money is
invested as tax efficiently as possible.
In introducing you to PSL your Partner has undertaken to provide you with a
Servicing Regime which is tailored to your needs and is designed to take account of
the foregoing points while being timed to meet your unique personal circumstances.
As part of your Servicing Regime your Partner agrees to:-
- Be you principal point of contact.
- Monitor and review Your Policies and underlying funds to consider whether they
continue to meet your needs and take them into account when agreeing your ongoing
Servicing Regime.
- Monitor and review any correspondence added to your Client File on a regular basis to
ensure that your affairs are being managed.
- Notify PSL of any changes to your personal circumstances which need to be reflected in
Your Policies.
The cost is 0.5% per annum and is based on the value of your non [Firm B] Investments at
each 12 month anniversary paid pro-rata in arrears. Therefore, if the value of your non [Firm
B] investment(s) totalled 50,000 our yearly fees would be 250.00.
This is collected by PSL and shared with your Partner on a pre-determined basis.
Proposition and Client Agreement
For Clients introduced by Partners of [Firm B]
This document explains:
 Our Proposition
 Your Partner's responsibilities
 Our responsibilities
This document should be read in conjunction with our Tariff. Together they form the entire
agreement between us.
From our experience the majority of clients want to deal with one Financial Adviser, the
Adviser that they trust and have dealt with for many years. However in todays complicated
financial marketplace, most Financial Advisers choose to specialise. Your partner has
chosen to align his/her business with [Firm B] and in the process has decided to delegate
the servicing of your non-[Firm B] policies to Policy Services.
Essentially this means that your partner remains your principal point of contact and, where
possible through Policy Services, has access to the information regarding your overall
portfolio.
As Policy Services is the servicing agent on your non [Firm B] policies we receive ongoing
information from your companies and file this securely in your client file. By doing this we
can ensure that your evolving financial picture is always at your partners fingertips. We
believe that it is very Important to review your finances on a regular basis. Your partner has
agreed that they will undertake the servicing regime with you. This will be tailored to
your needs, in particular how often your finances should be reviewed. There is a
separate terms of business issued by [Firm B] covering the relationship between you
and your partner.
The vast majority of your ongoing financial planning needs can be met by your partner
Where this is not possible your partner may involve other financial specialists includingPolicy Services. Because we have direct access to your client file we can quickly assess
your financial position and help you to find appropriate solutions to your financial planning
needs.
Definitions
This Client Agreement sets out the basis on which Policy Services Limited (PSL) will conduct
business with you and on your behalf. The terms of this Client Agreement come into force
immediately on issue and remain in force until further notice
Servicing Agent The Firm responsible for servicing your policies
Servicing Regime A review of your policies undertaken by your partner to ensure that
your ongoing financial planning needs are met. The frequency of this is tailored to
your personal circumstances.
Your Partner An Appointed Representative of [Firm B].
Your Policies Any policy, investment portfolio, wrap account, platform or other instrument
held by you of which PSL is the servicing agent under the terms of this agreement. This will
exclude [Firm Bs] policies.
2.4. By entering into this agreement you are appointing PSL as the servicing agent on your
policies.
5. Under This Agreement
5.1 YOUR PARTNER UNDERTAKES TO
5.1.1. Be your principal point of contact.
5.1.2. Monitor and review your policies and underlying funds to consider whether they
continue to meet your needs and take them into account when agreeing your ongoing
servicing regime as defined later in this agreement.
5.1.3. Monitor and review any correspondence added to your client file on a regular basis to
ensure that your affairs are being managed
5.1.4. Notify PSL of any changes to your personal circumstances which need to be reflected
in your policies.
10. Servicing Regime
10 1. PSL believe that it is vital that you review your finances on a regular basis. In addition
to your personal situation and evolving goals, your attitude to risk is likely to change with
time. It is critical that the products and underlying funds that you hold remain appropriate for
your needs and of course, that your money is invested as tax efficiently as possible.
10.2. By introducing you to PSL your partner has undertaken to provide you with a
servicing regime which is tailored to your needs and is designed take account of the
foregoing points while being timed to meet your unique personal circumstances
10.3. Your partner will agree your servicing regime with you. PSL is not party to this
and therefore cannot accept any responsibility for the conduct of the servicing regime
10 4. In order to protect you, we reserve the right to contact you from time to time to ensure
that your servicing regime is still appropriate for your needs. [My emphasis in bold].
I said there were several references to Firm B actively monitoring Mr Es policies and
that the partner (an appointed representative of Firm B) would agree a servicing regime. 
Firm B had said that any agreement was between Policy Services and the partner 
themselves; that the activity was not authorised by Firm B or carried out by the Partner as an 
Appointed Representative of Firm B - it was completely separate and not Firm Bs 
responsibility.I said I thought Policy Services documentation suggested that the partner would be acting in 
his capacity as a representative of Firm B. However, I thought what was key was that all the 
above documentation was from Policy Services  not from Firm B. I didnt think Policy 
Services could fix Firm B with responsibilities unilaterally it would have needed the 
agreement of Firm B. Firm B had specifically confirmed that there was no agreement 
between it and Policy Services in the background to allow Policy Services to fix
Firm B with responsibility to monitor and agree a servicing regime (reviews). And the 
documentation from Firm B itself didnt appear to cover or agree on any servicing regime.
Policy Services had said that it hadnt received remuneration for the servicing of the
pension plan (or indeed Firm B) and it didnt believe there was an expectation in terms of the
level of service provided. However I said I thought the point was that the clear message from 
the documentation that was provided to Mr E was that his policies would be monitored and
reviewed  he signed the documentation that was sent to him agreeing to the proposal. It 
wasnt clear to me why the remuneration hadnt been received. But Id seen no evidence to 
suggest that was the fault of Mr E. I said in my view the documentation gave the clear 
impression his plan would be monitored and reviewed.
I also noted that Policy Services letter to Mr E dated 10 September 2015 said:
Whilst writing to you we wanted to raise the importance of reviewing your finances on a
regular basis. Your personal situation, goals and attitude to risk are likely to change over
time. It is important that the products and underlying funds that you hold remain appropriate
for your needs and, of course, that your money is invested as tax efficiently as possible.
[Firm Bs adviser] is responsible for ensuring that you have the relevant Servicing Regime in
place to meet your needs and has advised Policy Services that your finances are reviewed
every 12 months.
If you require to amend your Servicing Regime, or indeed have any questions regarding this
letter, please contact [Firm Bs adviser].
I thought the second paragraph needed to be read in the context of the third; if you require to
amend your Servicing Regime suggested that a Servicing Regime had been agreed. I said in 
my view the second paragraph suggested that Firm Bs adviser had told Policy Services that 
it had been agreed to review Mr Es pension every 12 months.
However I thought even if this wasnt the case, the overall impression Mr E would have
reasonably gained from the documentation he was provided with was that his plan would be
proactively reviewed on a regular basis. And if this wasnt the reality of the situation then I 
thought the documentation provided to Mr E by Policy Services was misleading  whether or 
not Policy Services or Firm B had arranged to be remunerated for it as described; that wasnt 
a result of something that Mr E had failed to do.
I concluded that either Policy Services was obliged to provide reviews, or it had misled Mr E 
about the position. So I thought that part of Mr Es complaint should succeed.
However I went onto say that it was clear that Mr E had taken an interest in his pension plan 
and how it had been invested  hed corresponded with the provider and Firm B about its 
investment and performance over the years so he could also have requested a review. I 
thought it was key that when Mr E complained about the matter his plan had grown 
significantly from 2011. And he hadnt paid the charges that should have been taken. So in 
the context of the performance, he had also saved the 0.5% per year that would otherwise 
have been paid.I said although reviews may have resulted in changes to the funds selected there was no 
guarantee that those changes would have improved performance. Overall I thought that  
although Policy Services had failed to provide reviews this hadnt caused Mr E a financial 
loss. But I was satisfied the matter had caused him a degree of distress and inconvenience. 
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Es complaint in part and award him £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
Mr E didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, he re-affirmed the nature of his 
complaint and the background to it. He said the Partner made arrangements for the pension 
to be serviced by both himself (as the main primary point of contact) and Policy Services.  
He said the joint Client Agreement and mandate set out the respective roles and obligations 
of the three parties to the Agreement  Policy Services, Firm B and himself. He said it was 
clear that both Policy Services and Firm B had devised and set up a joint business model 
and their legal teams must have set out how they would both administer and service this with 
prospective clients. 
Mr E said the responsibilities and obligations of each business was set out in the Client 
Agreement and it wasnt a matter of one firm seeking to burden an unrelated firm with 
unilateral obligations as had been suggested in the provisional decision; the two firms clearly 
had a close business arrangement and had agreed how they would both operate to service 
their clients needs.
Mr E said he did take an interest in his pension plan and as his retirement was only a few 
years away it was important it was managed properly by specialists who had promised to 
undertake that function. He had little knowledge of financial planning and pension law which 
is why hed engaged advisers to do it for him. He was told the relevant servicing regime was 
in place and that this was being monitored and reviewed annually.
Mr E said even when he asked for a specific review as he approached retirement age it was 
flippantly dismissed.  He said his pension had undoubtedly suffered by not being reviewed 
each year and especially as he approached and passed his retirement age. His situation had 
changed over time and was very different to when the plan was set up by the original 
financial planner or when it had been last reviewed in 2011. He said the pension would have 
suffered recently because of the changing world and market situations, as Policy Services 
had advised the equities in the fund were particularly susceptible. 
Mr E said when he raised his complaint he had no idea it would take so long to get to this 
point. He felt it was the right thing to do to navigate this matter through the proper channels, 
notwithstanding the time it had taken. He didnt terminate the contract during the complaint 
referral period as he thought it might jeopardise the running and outcome of the complaint 
process. 
Mr E said if I didnt accept there was a substantive effect on his pension I should at least 
accept that nine years of neglect and lost opportunities would inevitably have had some 
effect. He said when he last discussed this matter with Policy Services they told him his 
funds were still in relatively high-risk equities but one of the major fund groups had not 
performed as well as the others, year after year. He felt that should have been addressed in 
the reviews.  And that the balance of the funds should have been adjusted to reflect the 
changing risks associated with his age and to safeguard them, but this wasnt done. He 
thought it was highly likely regular reviews would have provided this.
Mr E asked that I re-consider the amount Id suggested as compensation in my provisional 
decision given the considerable amount of time and inconvenience he had been subjected to 
having his complaint heard; the considerable worry and anxiety and sleepless nights this had 
caused him.
Policy Services responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said, in 
summary, that when Mr E first raised his complaint it carried out a review of his holdings free 
of charge.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of points in response to my provisional decision. Although I have 
only summarised them above I have read them in full and taken them all into account. An 
error or omission by a firm doesnt, in itself, create an entitlement to compensation. It has to 
be shown that the error or omission caused the losses or damage that was being claimed 
for. So Ive focused on what I consider are the key points which I think are material to 
determine the outcome of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I thought the overall impression Mr E would have 
reasonably gained from the documentation that he was provided with was that his plan 
would be proactively reviewed on a regular basis. And that if this wasnt the reality of the 
situation then I thought the documentation provided to Mr E by Policy Services was 
misleading. 
I concluded that either Policy Services was obliged to provide reviews, or it had misled Mr E 
about the position. And I provisionally found this part of Mr Es complaint should succeed. 
Ive seen no reason to depart from those findings having considered the further evidence 
and arguments made.
So having established there was an error by the firm, I need to decide whether its failures 
caused the losses that Mr E has claimed. 
Firm B sent its response to Mr Es complaint alerting him to its position in its letter dated 5 
April 2019. Mr E had said he was desperately seeking a review and it was very urgent. 
Policy Services alerted Mr E that it wasnt being paid any servicing fees at this time but it 
carried out a review of the performance of his pension funds in response to his complaint. 
The report explained that Mr E was invested in a mix of funds that presented higher risks - 6 
on a scale of 1-10. And that it would expect his funds to outperform the markets when things 
were going well, but a decline in the market could have a severe impact. The fund value at 
that time was £50,680. It said it would provide a full review free of charge and this would 
include any fund switches.
Mr E was complaining that the firm had failed to carry out the reviews that he considered he 
was entitled to. I dont think he needed to wait for the outcome of his complaint to know that 
he hadnt had the reviews and/or he wanted his pension reviewed. Mr E was clearly alerted 
to how his pension was invested and the risks it presented by Policy Services in its 
performance review. 
On the one hand I accept that Mr E considered he was due compensation for the reviews 
that hadnt been carried out over the years, and so was reluctant to accept that review to 
settle his complaint.  And he thought he would wait for the outcome of his complaint, not 
knowing the length of time it would go on for. 
But on the other, Mr E also had an obligation to mitigate his position; he was aware of how 
he was invested and of the risks presented, and hed stressed the urgency of the matter 
himself. If he didnt want to accept Firm Bs offer he could have engaged another firm to 
carry out a review.
I do understand Mr Es position. But I still think he ought reasonably have arranged a review, 
at least following receipt of the performance review showing how he was invested and 
explaining the risks; that a decline in the market could have a severe impact. As I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr E had taken an interest in his pension over the years and corresponded with the provider about its investment and performance. In 2011 he had 
complained to the provider about the way his pension had been invested and losses suffered 
as a result. He also said that he didnt think anyone had contacted him to review the pension 
since it had been started. So the need for reviews wasnt new to him. As I said above, I think 
he would have reasonably understood his plan would be reviewed. But I think he could also 
have asked for/arranged a review, and as I say, particularly following receipt of the Policy 
Services performance review.
So I think any assessment of his losses should be calculated at around this time as I think 
Mr E was aware of, and effectively accepting, the level of risk he was exposed to from this 
point.
Policy Services performance review showed the value of his pension as at 7 March 2019 as 
£50,680. Where we uphold a complaint about fund suitability we often use an index to 
replicate the position that the complainant might have been in had a firm provided 
appropriate advice. We use the FTSE UK Private Investors Index Series which are made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes to reflect differing degrees of risk. The index 
that would be suitable for the degree of risk Mr E had been told he was taking is the 
Balanced Total Return Index. 
To help provide some context Ive calculated the returns Mr E would have received using 
this Balanced Index from the October 2011 value (using a figure of £22,233) and February 
2014 value (£30,458) to March 2019 when its actual value was £50,680. The respective 
figures are approximately £42,690 and £44,770. So Mr E was in a much better position.
I accept that its likely some fund switches would have been made over that period had Mr E 
had annual reviews. And likely changes to the poorly performing ones. But there was no 
guarantee any new funds would have outperformed those switched from. And as Mr E has 
said, his age was a factor; its usually suitable advice to switch to a lower risk profile of funds 
a few years before reaching retirement age. If Mr E had switched to lower risk funds he 
wouldnt have been subject to the same degree of volatility seen recently in investment 
markets. But he also wouldnt have received the very significant increases in his pension 
from 2011 through to 2019.
Clearly this is all speculation. And I realise that different arguments can be made about 
exactly how Mr E would have invested and when, if hed had reviews. Its clearly possible he 
would have invested in a different combination of funds that provided even higher values.  
But this all goes to show the difficulties concluding that Mr E would have made even more 
than what he made over and above the proxy used to represent an average for a balanced 
risk. 
Ultimately, its a matter of fact that the overall pension performed very well at least up to 
2019, and provided returns higher than the index I have referred to above. I accept this was 
despite the firms actions  or lack of them  rather than because of its input. But that is the 
reality of Mr Es position. In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably 
determine that Mr E lost out financially as a result of the lack of reviews.
Policy Services has explained that it hasnt received any servicing fees. And I think the 
position going forward will depend of whether Mr E wants it to provide a review service. The 
terms provide that it will charge for such a service, so I think it will be Mr Es choice whether 
he wants to arrange for that service to be provided and charged for it going forward.
Mr E has clearly put a lot of time and effort into making his complaint and so I agree it has 
caused both inconvenience as well as some distress. But I have to consider the matter in the 
whole. Although I think the firm was at fault for the reasons I have given, I dont think this 
caused the loss that Mr E claimed or thought he had suffered. So in taking all this into account, I think the £300 I said I was intending to award in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part. I order Policy Services Limited to 
pay Mr E £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman