DRN-1970734
The complaint
Miss S complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd (Collingwood) wont meet a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss S went on holiday abroad leaving her car parked on the street a 
few doors away from her house. When she returned, her car wasnt there. CCTV installed 
outside her house appeared to show the car being stolen while she was on holiday. She said 
the two keys for the car had been inside her house, and were still there on her return. There 
had been no forced entry to the house.
Miss S notified the police. The engine and gearbox of the car have since been recovered, 
but not the rest of the car. She made a claim for the theft of the car on her motor insurance 
policy with Collingwood.
Collingwood said it wouldnt accept her claim. It said the CCTV footage appeared to show 
her car being stolen on the evening of 16 September 2019. It seemed to show that an 
electronic device might have been used to boost the signal between the car keys inside the 
house and the car parked in the street.
However, Collingwood said the manufacturer of the car had confirmed that when the car was 
first supplied it wasnt fitted with a keyless entry system that would allow this type of theft. In 
addition, examination of the car keys by both the manufacturers agent and an independent 
expert instructed by Collingwood showed that one of the car keys had been used on           
17 September 2019, the day after the theft had supposedly taken place.
Collingwood also had concerns about an apparent discrepancy in the mileage of the car 
between its last MOT in April 2019 and the mileage readings from the cars keys. Miss S 
said she wasnt aware of this and put it down to a recording error at the time of the MOT.
Miss S didnt accept Collingwoods rejection of her claim and complained to us. Initially our 
investigator thought that on the basis of the CCTV footage the car had been stolen on        
16 September 2019, and the evidence of usage the following day was likely to have been 
triggered by the thieves. So he recommended that Collingwood should accept Miss Ss 
claim.
However, after considering further representations from Collingwood and Miss S, the 
investigator said he couldnt now fairly ask Collingwood to reverse its decision and approve 
Miss Ss claim, for the following reasons:
Collingwood had supplied evidence from the manufacturer of the car that when it was 
first supplied it didnt have a keyless entry system that would have enabled the car to 
be stolen without physical possession of the key. Miss S said she had acquired the 
car second hand with this feature fitted. She said it must have been installed before 
she bought it. She had produced evidence from the manufacturer that this wouldnt 
have left any recorded evidence on the cars key fobs. However, she hadnt produced 
any independent evidence that the cars entry system had in fact been changed to 
keyless at the time of the theft; and
Collingwood had supplied evidence from the manufacturers reading of the cars key 
fobs that the main key was used the day after the CCTV footage showed the theft 
occurring. Miss S had said a local acquaintance told her they thought they had seen 
a car similar to Miss Ss car on the back of a recovery vehicle being driven in the 
area on the morning of 17 September 2019. Miss S had reported this to Collingwood 
and the police while their investigation was proceeding. The investigator said this 
didnt amount to evidence or a clear explanation as to how or why the key was used 
the next day.
Miss S asked for her complaint to be reviewed, and so it has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for me to say exactly what happened to Miss Ss car on 16 and 17 September 2019  
only a court can decide questions of fact like that. However, I need to be satisfied that 
Collingwood considered Miss Ss claim fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the 
terms of her policy. 
The investigator pointed out that within its General Conditions, Miss Ss policy provides 
that:
You, or anyone acting on your behalf, upon .. making a claim, must not commit a 
fraudulent act, submit a false document or make a false or exaggerated statement. .. In 
the event that you do not adhere to any of these requirements  any claims made against 
the policy will . not be paid.
Miss S has said that during its investigations, Collingwood changed the reasons for not 
accepting her claim. However, its concern from an early stage has been that it wasnt 
possible for the car to be stolen in the way Miss S suggested. The expert evidence it has 
provided says:
access to the car couldnt be obtained without physical possession of a key unless 
the car was fitted with a keyless entry system;
the manufacturer confirms the car wasnt supplied with such a system; and
although Miss S says it did have such a system, she hasnt been able to provide any 
independent evidence of this.
In this context, I have looked at the video Miss S provided of a friend of hers approaching 
and entering the car some time prior to the theft. However, this isnt clear enough for me to 
decide whether or not the car then had a keyless entry system.
The expert evidence Collingwood has provided also establishes that the cars main key was 
used on 17 September 2019  the day after the supposed theft  at a time when Miss S says it was secured inside her house. Collingwood didnt accept that the information Miss S 
provided of the car supposedly having been seen on a recovery vehicle in the area was a 
sufficient explanation of this.
The result is that Collingwood isnt satisfied that the car was stolen in the circumstances as 
suggested by Miss S. Having considered all that Miss S has said and provided, I dont think 
Collingwood has acted unreasonably in coming to that view and so I cant fairly require it to 
accept and pay Miss Ss claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Collingwood 
Insurance Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman