DRN-4333531
The complaint
Miss C has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
What happened
Miss C was involved in what she believed to be a non-fault accident and when she reported 
this it would appear that the matter was referred to a third-party company who looked to 
advance the claim directly with the other drivers insurer. There was discussion about Miss 
Cs car being a write off and a claim was made direct through her insurer, Skyfire. And as 
Miss C thought the car could be fixed it agreed to repair her car and it was returned to her. 
However, Miss C complained to Skyfire as she wasnt happy about the way the claim was 
dealt with and the delay in settling liability as this was impacting her premiums amongst 
other things. Skyfire explained that it wasnt responsible for the problems she faced initially 
when the matter was referred to a third-party as it had nothing to do with that. And that 
liability was being disputed by the other driver now, so the claim has unfortunately been 
dragged out. But Miss C remained unhappy, so she approached this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss C and partly upheld her complaint. She thought 
Skyfire should have kept her up to date about the claim and provided more meaningful 
updates. And so, she thought it should pay Miss C £200 by way of compensation for the 
poor customer journey she faced. 
Miss C didnt agree as she thought she should have been paid a lot more by way of 
compensation, so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be partly upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss C but I think £200 compensation is fair, Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately, there is always a fair degree of inconvenience in advancing an insurance 
claim after an accident, especially when the other side disputes liability. So I think a lot of the 
stress, worry and inconvenience Miss C faced is linked to this which is unavoidable. I can 
see Miss C faced some difficulty when she first reported the incident but that was with a 
third-party company that wasnt anything to do with Skyfire so I cant hold it responsible for 
the third-partys actions although Miss C may be able to advance a complaint separately with 
that company if she remains unhappy. This complaint focusses solely on the actions of 
Skyfire and the complaint Miss C has brought against it.
I know Miss C doesnt feel £200 compensation is sufficient and highlights that she is out of 
pocket in relation to her excess and that she is facing increased premiums because of the 
potential fault claim. But I cant hold Skyfire responsible for these issues at this stage 
although Miss C may be able to address these points once the claim is finalised. Miss Cs 
excess was always due under the policy and she may be able to get that back from the other 
drivers insurer if the claim is eventually settled as fault against the other side. And if the 
claim is marked as non-fault against her she can look to see if her insurer will re-rate her 
policy on this basis and gain a refund of some of her premium. 
Turning to liability, I can understand Miss Cs frustration as the other side has disputed 
liability here which inevitably delays matters. 
Ultimately, Skyfire has the right to take over the settlement of any claim which gives it the 
right to decide whether to take a third party to court or settle a claim. Legal proceedings are 
time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain. As such, it will not always be 
commercially viable to take legal action against a third party. However, this Services general 
approach is that insurers should act fairly and reasonably in deciding whether to settle or 
pursue a third party. 
We expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of 
the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. And having carefully considered how 
Skyfire has handled things to date Im satisfied it has carried out a reasonable investigation 
into the claim. It has taken into consideration all of the available evidence and appointed 
solicitors to try and defend Miss C so it seems to be doing all it can to help here. I can see 
Skyfire looked at settling the claim on a split liability 50/50 basis at one stage and has now 
instructed solicitors to try and fully defend Miss C. So, it is clearly trying to defend her 
position here while the other side is looking to defend their position which they are entitled to 
do.  
So, although I know Miss C simply wants liability settled in her favour, which I understand, it 
isnt as simple as that and Skyfire is trying to defend her position against the other side. And 
if liability isnt settled in her favour she can complain to Skyfire about this at that stage 
although Im satisfied it has acted fairly to date. 
Finally, I can see Miss C has raised a number of issues with this Service that Skyfire hasnt 
had the opportunity to consider to date. Ill simply leave Miss C to advance those issues with 
Skyfire if she remains unhappy in the first instance. 
Given all of this, I agree that Miss C should be awarded £200 compensation for the lack of 
meaningful updates, delay and poor service provided here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss C £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman