DRN-2952648
The complaint
Ms C complains that UK Insurance Ltd (trading as Direct Line) didnt carry out all the repairs 
that were needed after her car was damaged in an accident. Shes also unhappy with the 
way they handled her claim  and that they didnt obtain CCTV footage or witness 
testimonies about the incident.
What happened
On 4 June 2020 Ms Cs car was hit from behind by another vehicle whilst she was queuing 
to enter a restaurant car park. She contacted her insurer, UKI, to make a claim on her policy.
 
Ms Cs car went into the garage for repair on 26 June 2020. Three days later, the garage 
called to say they wouldnt be repairing damage to the passenger side of her car, or a 
knocking noise theyd noted to be coming from the steering.
 
Ms C called UKI, who said they hadnt instructed the garage to carry out repairs to any other 
parts of her car because shed told them the impact was at the back. Ms C told them her car 
had passed its MOT test just before the accident  and that it had been perfect. She said 
she didnt mention the knocking noise when she first reported the accident to them because 
she was in shock and hadnt realised. She complained to UKI about the customer service 
shed received and the way theyd handled her claim. 
UKI sent their final response to Ms Cs complaint on 9 July 2020. They said theyd 
authorised repairs to the off-side rear bumper and carried out a check on the geometry of 
her car to ensure it was safe to drive. But their experts didnt think the damage to other areas 
of the bodywork was consistent with the impact shed described. They said the knocking 
sound was coming from the steering column  and that there were signs of wear and tear 
suggesting this had occurred over a period of time. They offered to review things again if Ms 
C was able to clarify the circumstances of the accident or provide an independent report 
showing the damage to be consistent with the impact.
UKI offered Ms C £100 compensation for the poor service shed received. They said this was 
to acknowledge that they hadnt told her when she could expect a response to her complaint 
 and because they hadnt chased the witnesses.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had treated Ms C unfairly. He said both the experts whod 
looked at the car felt the damage was unlikely to be related to the accident - and he hadnt 
seen any other evidence to contradict this. He didnt think CCTV footage or accounts given 
by witnesses would assist Ms Cs claim because he didnt think theyd be able to diagnose 
whether or not mechanical or internal damage had been caused by the accident. He felt the 
£100 compensation UKI had awarded her was fair.
Ms C disagreed  she said her car had been fine before the accident. She said the garage 
that carried out the repairs told her the damage wouldve been covered if she had CCTV 
footage showing her car had hit the kerb, but this was no longer available because UKI had 
failed to obtain it. She questioned whether UKI had obtained expert opinions from 
companies they pass a lot of business to  and whether this would be seen as a conflict of 
interest. She didnt think £100 was adequate compensation for all of UKIs errors and poor 
service shed received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should UKI have carried out further repairs?
Ive listened to the recording of the initial phone call between Ms C and UKI, when she 
described what had happened. She told them shed been in a queue of traffic and pulled out 
slowly to pass a stationary car in front of her. She said the driver of the vehicle behind had 
got impatient and pulled out to pass her, hitting the back of her car. She said she was in a 
state of shock and wasnt 100% sure what had happened. When asked to describe the 
damage, she said it was a football-sized area at the left-hand side of her back bumper and 
that the light was broken.
 
Based on the information Ms C provided, I think it was reasonable for UKI to authorise the 
garage to carry out repairs only to damage found at the back of the car. Ive seen no 
evidence that they were made aware of any other issues until 29 June 2020, when the 
garage reported a knocking noise and damage to the front wing, door and wing mirror. UKI 
have provided evidence showing that, when they were told about this, they reviewed the 
claim to see whether these issues could be related to the accident. Their records show they 
contacted Ms C again to clarify exactly what had happened. But as she wasnt able to give 
any clearer description, they sought expert advice from the garage and one of their internal 
engineers.
 
The evidence shows UKI arranged for the knocking noise to be investigated and a four-
wheel alignment to be carried out before a final decision was taken. And that their engineer 
reported back that he didnt consider the damage to the cars front wing, door panel and 
wing mirror to be consistent with the accident Ms C had reported. The experts said there 
were signs of wear  and that noise from the steering column is a known issue with this type 
of vehicle.
In the absence of any other expert evidence, Im satisfied that UKI were entitled to rely on 
the information theyd obtained from the garage and their engineer. I appreciate Ms C feels 
that its unfair for her insurer to rely on opinions from businesses they work with regularly. 
But theyve agreed to review this again if Ms C provides an independent report linking the 
other issues with her car to the accident, which I think is fair and reasonable. So, I dont find 
UKI to have treated her unfairly.
Should they have obtained further evidence?
I can see Ms C feels strongly that UKI shouldve chased up all the witnesses and the 
restaurant CCTV footage straight away, to make sure they got hold of all the available 
evidence. 
UKIs records show that they requested information from all five potential witnesses the day 
after the accident was reported to them. Insurers are required to process claims promptly, so 
I wouldnt expect them to seek additional evidence in relatively straightforward claims that 
arent disputed by either of the parties involved. UKI have told us that the other driver 
accepted liability for this accident. Im satisfied that there was no reason to think additional 
evidence would be needed in this case until 29 June 2020, when Ms C told them that the 
rear bumper wasnt the only part of her car that had been damaged. The evidence suggests the restaurant was unlikely to hold CCTV footage for more than 28 
days  which would mean any images of this accident may only be available until 2 July 
2020. UKIs records show they followed this up on 14 July 2020. Ms C feels this delay has 
affected the outcome of her claim, because shes confident the CCTV pictures wouldve 
proved that her wheel had been damaged by hitting the kerb. Ive considered this point 
carefully.
As the footage is no longer available, Im unable to say what it wouldve shown. Where I 
cant be certain of what wouldve happened, I have to consider whats most likely. Having 
reviewed the evidence in this case, on balance, Im not persuaded that the outcome 
wouldve been different if UKI had requested the restaurant CCTV footage sooner. Ill explain 
why I say this.
Ive seen no evidence as to whether the restaurants CCTV camera covered the area of road 
outside their car park where this accident happened - or whether any of the recorded images 
wouldve given a sufficiently clear and unobstructed view of Ms Cs car to show whether or 
not her front wheel hit the kerb. But perhaps most importantly, Ive seen no expert evidence 
to show that the knocking noise from the steering couldve been caused by the front wheel 
hitting the kerb  and not due to the wear and tear UKIs experts discovered. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded that Ms C wouldve received a better outcome if UKI had 
chased for statements from the four witnesses who came forward. I say this because a 
witness to an accident will only be able to describe what they saw  I wouldnt expect them 
to be able to give a reliable account of repairs that would be needed to Ms Cs car. Ive seen 
a copy of the witness statement UKI obtained from a restaurant employee, which simply 
describes the other vehicle pushing past Ms Cs car and damaging the right side of her 
bumper. I dont consider this to add anything further to what shed already told UKI. 
Did UKI progress the claim promptly?
Ms C feels that her claim was handled poorly  and that £100 compensation isnt adequate 
for this.
Having reviewed UKIs records of this claim, Im satisfied that they progressed things swiftly. 
I can appreciate Ms Cs frustration that they didnt chase up witness statements and CCTV 
footage. And UKI accept that they didnt provide her with clear information about when she 
could expect to receive a response to her complaint. They offered her £100 compensation 
for these errors. I consider that to be fair and reasonable, so I wont be directing them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman