DRN-4179949
The complaint
Mr F complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him loans 
without carrying out sufficient affordability checks, had it done so Mr F says that 
Mr Lender ought to have realised he already had a number of outstanding payday loans.  
What happened
Mr F was advanced three loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £300.00 29/05/2022 29/05/2022 unknown unknown
2 £500.00 29/05/2022 30/05/2022 12 £113.66
3 £400.00 12/07/2022 outstanding 6 £154.44
Mr Lender says loan one repaid on the same day it was advanced and so it was treated as 
being withdrawn  this meant according to Mr Lender, Mr F wasnt charged any interest. 
Loans two and three were structured in such a way so that payments decreased as Mr F 
repaid the capital. 
Following Mr Fs complaint about the sale of the loans, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain 
that it wasnt going to uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and she said Mr Lender had carried out 
proportionate checks which showed it each loan was affordable. And so, she didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr F didnt agree, saying loan one was repaid and not withdrawn and the adjudicator wrote 
to Mr F to explain his comments hadnt changed her mind. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Fs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Fs complaint and I agree, considering the number of loans and the dates each 
one was advanced. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Loan 1
Loan one was taken and repaid on the same day  by doing this Mr Lender treated the 
agreement as being withdrawn and it says that it didnt charge Mr F any interest. I dont think 
Mr Lender was unreasonable in doing this. 
I therefore wont be making a finding on this loan, because even if it was decided that the 
loan ought to not have been granted there wouldnt be a refund due to Mr F because he 
didnt pay Mr Lender any interest and so he suffered no financial loss. Instead, this decision 
will focus on loans two and three. 
Loans 2 and 3 
For both of these loans Mr F declared that his income was £2,300 per month, and for loan 
three, Mr Lender says the declared income was checked with a tool provided by a credit 
reference agency and Mr Lender says the results of that check indicated that Mr F did 
indeed receive a monthly income of £2,300. 
Mr F was asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories 
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. For loan 
two Mr F declared these costs came to £1,065 per month and then £1,200 when loan three 
was approved. Mr Fs housing costs are quite low  he declared that he only paid £100 each month for both 
loans. But Mr F declared he lived at home with parents so that may explain why his costs 
were not as high as perhaps someone with rent or a mortgage. I see no reason as to why 
Mr Lender couldnt rely on what it was told, so I dont think it needed to have verified what 
Mr Fs living arrangements were or ask further questions about the relatively low housing 
costs. 
And given the rest of the living costs Mr F declared, I dont think the information Mr F gave 
wouldve prompted Mr Lender to have verified it, which means I dont think it wouldve 
needed to have viewed Mr Fs bank statements.  
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr F had 
enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for each loan. 
Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr F wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three 
years preceding the loan. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for he had no outstanding payday loans 
at the time loan two was taken out and at loan three he had only one outstanding payday 
loan. But the presences of one other payday loan wouldnt, in my view have prompted 
Mr Lender to have either carried out further checks or to have declined the application. I say 
this is because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure 
assessment which suggested each loan was affordable. 
There were also no triggers in the way the previous loans were repaid or in the loan values 
to have prompted Mr Lender to do better checks, such as reviewing Mr Fs bank statements.  
Given what Mr Lender did know about Mr F, it wouldve been disproportionate for it to have 
considered the bank statements when these loans were advanced. 
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information that Mr F provided 
about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check results that Mr Lender 
received. The checks Mr Lender carried out where proportionate and showed Mr F should 
be able to afford the repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest the loans 
would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint about these loans. An outstanding balance may still be 
due on the final loan, and I would remind Mr Lender of its obligation to treat Mr F fairly and 
with forbearance if needed.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman