DRN-4085427
The complaint
Mr B complained that part of his claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy 
with Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway Insurance) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his policy. He said storm force winds had caused damage to the gable 
of his property. He said the external brickwork was leaning inwards and he could observe 
cracking to the internal brickwork. Roof tiles were also blown from the roof.
Highway Insurance appointed a structural engineer to review the damage. Having reviewed 
the surveyors report, Highway Insurance decided to decline part of the claim, it said the 
issue you are experiencing to your home in relation to the gable is the result of age and/ or 
gradual deterioration and perhaps poor design when the window was replaced. It did agree 
the storm caused the tiles to be blown from the roof, so cash settled this part of the claim to 
allow Mr B to use his own builder to do the work. 
Mr B disagreed with the claim outcome and commissioned his own structural engineer to 
review the damage to the gable. Mr B said his report shows the storm was the main cause of 
the damage. He wants Highway Insurance to settle the claim in full. He asked for the cost of 
his report to be reimbursed and would like his own builders to complete the repairs.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. Based upon the evidence presented he 
thought it was more likely the storm had caused the damage. He didnt think Highway 
Insurance had been fair in declining part of the claim. He decided that the full claim should 
be settled in line with the remaining terms and conditions. Highway Insurance disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 23 March 2023. I said:
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Highway Insurance accepted that storm conditions were present at the time of the report 
incident. So, I will move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Using our resources, I have checked weather conditions at the time of the incident. I can see 
there were gusts of wind recorded at 67 mph. I think winds of this strength are significant  
they can cause structural damage to a property. So, I think the damage claimed for is 
consistent with damage a storm of this strength typically causes. Therefore, I will consider 
the final question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr B has only raised issue with the outcome on the damage to the gable of his property, so I 
havent considered the settlement paid on the roof tiles. Highway Insurance accepted 
damage had been caused to the gable but declined the claim as it thought the damage was 
a result of age and/ or gradual deterioration and perhaps poor design when the window was 
replaced. So, I have considered whether I think it was fair to do this.
I have checked the policy and Ive noted there is an exclusion under the storm damage peril 
for anything which happens gradually. Therefore, if Highway Insurance have provided 
enough evidence to show the damage was most likely caused gradually, then Im likely to 
say it has been fair in declining the claim.
Both Highway Insurance and Mr B have provided reports from structural engineers. From 
reading the reports I can see Highway Insurance and Mr B have reached a different 
conclusion on what caused the damage to the gable. Ive read both reports in detail. They 
are both factual and professionally produced. As the parties have reached different 
conclusions, in reviewing the reports I have considered what I think is most likely to have 
caused the damage based upon the structural engineers observations and conclusions.
From reading the report provided by Mr Bs structural engineer, I think hes clear in his 
opinion that strong winds caused the damage to the gable. He did touch on characteristics of 
the property due to its age, but he didnt point to these as been the main cause of the 
damage.
Highway Insurance said its surveyors report concluded the damage was that of gradual 
deterioration and poor design. I find the report interesting. Its factual and it explains how 
some of the historic characteristics of the build would have contributed to the damage. For 
example, the [cavity wall ties] age it is highly likely that they would have corroded and 
become ineffective and the general deterioration of the pointing of the mortar has 
contributed to the deflection of the gable wall. However, whilst it talks about the age / design 
of the property being a contributory factor, it doesnt go as far as saying it was the main 
cause of damage. It also doesnt discuss whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage or not.
Mr B was surprised when Highway Insurance declined his claim, as he felt it contradicted 
what its surveyor had told him. I can see Mr B contacted Highway Insurances surveyor 
directly to understand this contradiction further. 
Having reviewed the correspondence between them, I can see the engineer stated I 
understand that [a builder representing Highway Insurance] seem to be rather harshly 
interpreting our report.from our conversation they are disputing our report and are 
reported to dismiss your claim on the basis that the building has not been maintained and 
has no strapping in the roof and that the damage noted was not due to wind. The same 
surveyor then put Mr B in touch with another surveyor to assist him further in disputing the 
decision made by Highway Insurance.Based on the evidence, I dont think Highway Insurance has shown its most likely gradual 
causes were the main cause of damage, so I dont think it has been reasonable to rely on 
the exclusion in the policy to decline the claim. Its own surveyor indicated it had harshly 
interpreted the report. The report itself didnt conclude the main cause of damage. Mr Bs 
commissioned report was clear that the storm was the main cause of damage. Therefore, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. I think its more likely the storm was the main cause of 
damage. I dont think the evidence is clear that the main cause was gradual.
I appreciate that Highway Insurance wouldve preferred a third report to be produced by an 
independent surveyor. However, I dont think thats necessary in these circumstances. I think 
the evidence is sufficient to decide on whats most likely to have happened. I dont think a 
further report would add anymore clarity and would further delay the claim. 
I intend that Highway Insurance settle the claim for the damage. Mr B has indicated hes lost 
faith in Highway Insurances builder, so has requested any settlement is in cash so he can 
use his own appointed builder. I have checked the policy and it sets out how claims are 
settled. It states Highway Insurance may make a cash payment.
I think it makes sense for a cash payment to be arranged due to the history of this claim and 
to avoid further stress, So, I intend that Highway Insurance cash settle the claim, in line with 
the options set out in the policy. Mr B should get three quotes and the settlement should be 
based on the lowest quote to repair the damage. Highway Insurance should be given 
opportunity to review the quote to ensure its reasonable and is consistent with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. No further excess should be charged.
I think the decision Mr B received on this claim wouldve been distressing for him. It would 
have resulted in anxiety about the safety of living in his home and the financial outlay. The 
repairs have been delayed and hes been inconvenienced by getting his own report 
commissioned. However, Im not intending to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. If Highway Insurance used its own builders to do the repairs its likely to have 
cost less due to the commercial rates it has in place. Therefore, in allowing Mr B to get a 
cash settlement it may potentially cost Highway Insurance Company Limited more, so I dont 
think it would be reasonable to add compensation as well in these circumstances.
Had Highway Insurance reached a fair outcome initially, Mr B wouldnt have needed to 
commission his own surveyor. Therefore, I think its fair if the cost of this report is reimbursed 
by Highway Insurance. So, I intend for Highway Insurance reimburse these costs to Mr B on 
the production of valid receipts.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said, I think that the [provisional decision] is fair and I was not looking for 
compensation for the stress caused but I felt I that Highway Insurance were almost being 
deliberately difficult and exacerbating the problem. Mr B clarified that his claim included the 
costs for his boiler to be moved from the damaged wall (on safety grounds). As he chose to 
upgrade the boiler, he said he wasnt expecting the cost of the new boiler to be covered.
Highway Insurance said it referred my decision to its technical team. It didnt confirm if it 
accepted or rejected my provisional decision. However, it did raise some questions.
It said my decision solely relied upon the opinion of Mr Bs surveyor. It questioned the 
independence of the report provided by Mr Bs surveyor  which is why it said it suggested 
the engagement of another surveyor to review the damage and provide a third report.Highway Insurance said it could provide other contractors from its own network to do the 
work. It said it would save Mr B from having to seek his own quotes. It said any cash 
settlement should be based on its own rates.
Highway Insurance said it agrees if it is paying the claim it would be accountable for settling 
Mr Bs surveyor fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I wont be changing my decision. 
Highway Insurance said my decision was based only on Mr Bs surveyor  however, my 
decision sets out how Ive considered both reports. I didnt feel Highway Insurances 
surveyor had concluded the storm was the main cause of damage.
Highway Insurance has questioned the independence of Mr Bs surveyor. I dont see any 
reason to question the professional opinion of Mr Bs surveyor. I dont think the surveyor is 
any less independent than the surveyor Highway Insurance appointed themselves. Ive 
explained in my decision why I dont think a third report would be helpful.
Highway Insurance has said it can get a different builder from its network to do the work. Mr 
B can decide if he wants to proceed with this offer. However, I also think its fair for Mr B to 
get his own builder to do the works and be refunded the value of the lowest reasonable 
quote. 
I appreciate Highway Insurance has access to lower commercial rates, and it has said any 
settlement should be based on these rates. However, in these circumstances, I think its 
fairer for Mr B to be refunded in the manner Ive set out if he chooses to use his own builder. 
I think the claim has been delayed and Mr B is extremely frustrated with the service he has 
received. I dont think he should be limited to using one of Highway Insurances builder or a 
settlement on that basis. This has potential to cause further frustration and distress for Mr B. 
Im also mindful that Mr B has been fair in not asking for any compensation to be awarded 
for distress and inconvenience. So, I think my decision provides a fair outcome for all 
involved.
As Mr B had his boiler moved due to safety concerns with the damaged wall, I think its fair 
as part of settling the claim, that Highway Insurance refund a fair proportion of the labour 
costs that Mr B incurred when he had the works completed (on production of valid receipts) 
to reimburse him for the costs involved in moving the boiler.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company Limited:
To allow Mr B to choose whether to:
ouse an alternative builder provided by Highway Insurance to complete the 
works to settle the claim or,
ocash settle the claim (Mr B should get three quotes and the settlement should 
be based on the lowest quote to repair the damage. Highway Insurance 
should be given opportunity to review the quote to ensure its reasonable and 
is consistent with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. No further 
excess should be charged).Either way, Highway Insurance as part of the settlement need to refund fair labour 
costs of moving the boiler (on production of valid receipts).
Reimburse Mr B for the cost of his surveyors report (on production of valid receipts).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman