DRN-3299538
The complaint
In summary, Mr T is unhappy with the delays in setting up his annuity. He thinks ReAssure 
Limited are responsible for those delays and that it should pay him additional compensation 
for the inconvenience caused by the delays, together with interest on the delayed payments 
he has now received.
What happened
Mr T contacted ReAssure in January 2021 and asked to take an annuity from his pension 
policy. His retirement date was 26 March 2021 and the retirement forms were sent to him 
shortly before this date.
Mr T sent ReAssure the documentation it had asked him to provide to enable him to take 
benefits from his pension policy. This was received by ReAssure, but it accepted it failed to 
review the completed documents.
Mr T didnt receive call backs as to how his request was progressing. This resulted in him 
losing confidence in ReAssure, so he made the decision to transfer to another provider.
In its response to Mr Ts complaint of 2 June 2021, ReAssure apologised for the delay he 
had experienced. It said a loss assessment would be carried out once he had completed his 
chosen course of action. And it arranged for £500 to be transferred to his bank account by 
way of compensation.
Mr T took advice and was told he would potentially lose out by transferring his pension due 
to the guaranteed minimum pension that applied to it. So, he went back to ReAssure and 
asked it to set up his pension. And he asked that his payments be backdated to March 2021.
ReAssure initially didnt agree to do this. Mr T complained again. In its response of 24 
November 2021, it accepted he had been given incorrect information again. It also accepted 
Mr T had been forced to look at other providers as a result of the service he received. It 
agreed to backdate his annuity to his chosen retirement date of 26 March 2021. ReAssure 
also said that all income due from that date would be paid with interest. And it agreed to use 
the original application forms he had provided. It said the annuity should be set up within 10-
15 working days. It understood Mr T would now withdraw his complaint from our service.
Mr T didnt receive the interest he was expecting so he asked our service to look into his 
complaint. One of our investigators reviewed the case and explained why she thought 
ReAssure should pay an additional sum in respect of the inconvenience Mr T had been 
caused, and interest on the lump sum and delayed annuity payments at a rate of 8% simple 
a year.  
ReAssure didnt agree. It said that it didnt think 8% interest on a late payment was fair as it 
wasnt the level of return that would be received on an investment if it had been made on 
time. And while recognising that the initial payment had been received in December 2021, it 
didnt believe another £250 was fair or reasonable. It thought the £500 that had already been 
paid was sufficient.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that ReAssure caused delays in the setting up of Mr Ts annuity. I simply 
have to decide whether the compensation proposed by our investigator is appropriate. 
Having reviewed everything, Ive been provided with; Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Mr T initiated the process of taking benefits from his pension with ReAssure 
in January 2021, with an intended retirement date in March 2021. The process of setting up 
an annuity isnt instantaneous. But Mr T received his first annuity payment in December 
2021. And ReAssure recognises that the delays it caused and the service he received from 
it, resulted in Mr T having to investigate taking his pension with other providers. And I think 
an approximately nine-month delay, is a significant delay for someone such as Mr T to be 
delayed receiving their retirement benefits. 
ReAssure accepts that the service Mr T received from it fell short of the standard it strove to 
provide, and that it had let him down. Its letter to Mr T of 2 June 2021 offered £500 
compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused. Its also paid Mr T the backdated 
annuity payments. 
Ive noted that Mr T had to raise his ongoing concerns with ReAssure about the service 
provided by it, including incorrect information it gave him, after it issued its first response to 
his complaint. And in its letter to him 24 November 2021, it apologised for the incorrect 
information he had been given. So, Im a little surprised that as ReAssure had to apologise 
again for the ongoing problems Mr T had experienced some five months after the first 
response it provided to him; that it doesnt agree that further compensation is appropriate. 
I think it was appropriate for our investigator to recommend additional compensation for the 
continued problems Mr T experienced with taking retirement benefits, which ReAssure 
accepts responsibility for.  And I think its also right that ReAssure should pay interest on the 
delayed annuity payments and lump sum. I dont accept its arguments as to why interest at 
the rate of 8% simple a year shouldnt be applied to the delayed payments from Mr Ts 
pension. 
I say this because ReAssure should be aware of our services approach to awards where 
consumers have been deprived of the use of their money. And an award of this type isnt just 
to reflect lost opportunities to save or invest for a consumer such as Mr T. It is also to 
compensate Mr T for having been deprived of the use of that money, to spend on items that 
he might have benefitted from, if he had that money available to him when it should have 
been. And it also reflects the current statutory interest on judgement debts. So, in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, Ive seen nothing that leads to me to think that an 
interest rate of 8% simple a year isnt appropriate. 
I also consider an additional £250 to be an appropriate payment to be made to Mr T to 
reflect the ongoing inconvenience he has been caused in having his annuity payments and 
lump sum payment further delayed. And I think interest should be paid on the delayed 
annuity payments and lump sum in addition to that.
Putting things rightOnly if it hasnt already done so, ReAssure Limited should pay Mr T £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused. If that has already been paid to Mr T 
then it doesnt have to pay that sum. ReAssure Limited should also pay Mr T an 
additional payment of £250 in respect of the inconvenience he has been caused by 
the ongoing delays in setting up his annuity since June 2021.
Pay interest on the delayed annuity payments and lump sum, at the rate of 8% 
simple a year from the dates the payments should have been paid to the date of 
payment.
If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint about ReAssure 
Limited. If Mr T accepts my decision, ReAssure Limited needs to pay compensation using 
the methodology that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman