DRN-2292721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
how it dealt with their mortgage, which they believed allowed underpayments to be made. 
They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with BOS, taken out in 2002. They said that they had a right 
to pay less due to the flexible options offered by a side agreement to the mortgage. In 2017, 
Mr and Mrs H cancelled the direct debit to pay the mortgage and days later, received a letter 
about reducing payments under the flexible option element of their mortgage. They chose to 
reduce their monthly mortgage payments from £900 to £100 without the agreement of BOS; 
Mr and Mrs H said that they wrote to BOS to say they were paying £100 under a flexible 
mortgage option and it didnt object. This reduction of the monthly payments led to 
mortgage arrears. BOS told Mr and Mrs H that they were in arrears, and issued possession 
proceedings in 2019.
Mr and Mrs H complained to BOS. It said that it was entitled to issue possession 
proceedings as the mortgage was in arrears as the monthly amount wasnt being paid in full. 
BOS said that there was no agreement between it and Mr and Mrs H for them to only pay 
£100 a month. 
BOS noted that the mortgage had been taken out through a broker, and it was the brokers 
role to advise about the suitability of the product, and this had been explained as early as 
December 2017 to Mr and Mrs H. BOS explained that the option to choose flexible options 
had been removed in 2017 due to arrears arising to avoid making the situation worse  it 
said that it was only possible to underpay if there were overpayments made previously to 
allow flexibility. The mortgages terms and conditions required the interest due in full each 
month and the mortgage to be paid off completely when it ended, and allowed the removal of 
the flexible options if the borrowers financial circumstances didnt allow them to pay in full 
each month (which Mr and Mrs H said was the situation they faced due to health).
Mr and Mrs H complained to us, saying that the mortgage had been mis-sold as they 
understood from the literature that it allowed them to make underpayments, but when they 
did, the mortgage was treated as being in arrears. Mr and Mrs H didnt feel the literature 
properly explained the restrictions on the flexible options. They added that if BOS had 
responded earlier when they started to pay £100 a month, matters couldve been resolved 
earlier while the arrears were smaller.
The first investigators view
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the mis-
selling complaint should be against the broker, not BOS, which he said had been accepted 
by the parties. But the investigator thought thered been a miscommunication in 2017 and 
letters had been crossed in the post  Mr and Mrs H had decided to cancel their direct debit 
and then received an already generated letter reminding them of their flexible options. But 
because they were in arrears due to the cancellation of the direct debit and failure to pay as 
required, the flexible options were no longer available, and the investigator said this was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. He pointed out that to underpay under the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage, Mr and Mrs H had to give a months notice and this didnt 
happen. By the time such notice couldve applied, the mortgage was in arrears and the 
option wasnt available.
The investigator noted that BOS cancelled the field agent visits and felt that this was 
unreasonable as it denied an opportunity to discuss the situation. But he added that the 
arrears and other letters told Mr and Mrs H they needed to do more as they were required to 
pay in full, but BOS didnt deal with their letter of December 2017 promptly. The investigator 
said that £100 compensation should be paid for the trouble and upset caused by this failing.
BOS said it didnt receive the letter of December 2017 referred to by the investigator and 
Mr and Mrs H expressly asked the field agents not to visit. It said the complaint was only 
made when legal proceedings were imminent. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the view. They 
said that they hadnt agreed the mis-selling claim couldnt be considered and wanted another 
investigator to deal with their complaint.
The second investigators view
A second investigator did take over the complaint. She clarified that the complaint was partly 
about the literature and information given about the mortgages flexible options, which only 
came to light from 2017 onwards. BOS accepted that this could be considered by this 
service, as could the allegation of mis-selling. A more recent complaint about the 
repossession proceedings was seen as a separate complaint and excluded from this 
complaint.
The second investigators view was that the mortgage was sold through a broker and the 
complaint should be considered against it, not BOS. She noted that the flexible options were 
part of a separate agreement and the terms and conditions made it clear if there was a 
breach of the mortgage, the options would be removed. The investigator noted that the 
literature said underpayments had to be agreed, and Mr and Mrs H didnt follow the process 
required under the terms and conditions by deciding to send £100 without talking to BOS. 
This caused the arrears in her view.
The second investigator thought BOS shouldve treated Mr and Mrs Hs letters from 
November 2017 onwards as a complaint as it was clear they didnt accept they couldnt 
underpay as they wished. She didnt think it responded to all of the letters, and noted it at 
one point incorrectly said a government agency was paying towards the mortgage. The 
second investigator said £100 was fair and reasonable compensation for how BOS 
responded to Mr and Mrs H, but she didnt think it had been unfair in refusing to allow 
Mr and Mrs H to change the monthly payments without its agreement or in removing the 
flexible options. She added that the arrears were caused by Mr and Mrs H not paying in in 
full, not BOS actions, and pointed out that they continued to underpay, even when BOS 
made it clear this wasnt acceptable.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the second investigators view. They said it was incorrect, 
that the second investigator was biased, and wanted another investigator to deal. It was 
explained that the next stage was an ombudsmans decision and if Mr and Mrs H wanted to 
submit more information, they could do so. Mr and Mrs H did respond and repeated that their 
complaint was partly about the literature about the flexible options and that not all of their 
complaint had been addressed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As previously explained, any complaint about the repossession proceedings is a separate 
complaint and I cant look at it within this complaint. And while Mr and Mrs H feel not all of 
their complaint has been addressed, this service concentrates on the core of a complaint, 
while considering carefully what the parties have said. Its for this reason that I will use 
headings for the key topics, but may not refer to every single point. I confirm Ive read 
everything from the parties to enable a fair and reasonable decision to be made in all the 
circumstances, but I also need to ensure that the decision is sufficiently anonymous to allow 
its publication on our website.
Mis-selling and the literature
When a broker is involved, the lender doesnt advise on whether a mortgage is suitable to 
meet a borrowers needs. Thats the role of the broker. But the lender must provide clear 
information about the product, which isnt misleading. 
I can see from the literature Mr and Mrs H have sent, as well as the evidence from BOS, that 
the flexible options were an additional extra for the mortgage. The key bit for this complaint, 
as the second investigator pointed out in her view, was that the literature when talking about 
underpayments says things like simply pay an agreed lower amount each month and 
simply agree the reduced amount. This matches the legal terms and conditions (with which 
Mr and Mrs H were provided as they sent this service an extract), though much more detail 
is within this document. This is not unusual  the terms and conditions set out in detail the 
rules while the literature sets out the headlines.
I cant see that the literature is unclear or misleading. Mr and Mrs H needed BOS agreement 
to underpay (amongst other things, which Ill deal with later) and this is expressly set out in 
the literature.
Was BOS required to accept the underpayment?
Its worth repeating that Mr and Mrs H had to agree the underpayment with BOS. Even the 
letter of August 2017 made it clear that there needed to be a discussion.
What actually happened was in late July 2017, Mr and Mrs H cancelled the direct debit. They 
were in arrears as a result. They wrote to BOS, but before it could respond, it had sent out 
the flexible option letter, prepared before the arrears arose. The terms and conditions make 
it clear that if the mortgage is breached, the flexible options are no longer available  not 
paying the full amount without the agreement of BOS was a breach of the mortgage as 
Mr and Mrs H promised to pay in full each month when they took out the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H didnt get BOS agreement to underpay and didnt follow the process set out in 
the terms and conditions. BOS isnt responsible for this or the arrears as a result.  Its the 
responsibility of the borrower to pay the mortgage.
But it was clear that Mr and Mrs H wanted to underpay, and while they were incorrect in their 
position that they were entitled to unilaterally do so, BOS didnt fully engage with the 
underlying issues Mr and Mrs H were facing. I accept that BOS was hampered by 
Mr and Mrs Hs failure to provide medical evidence to support their position and insistence 
that they were correct, but it didnt respond to all their letters. While much of Mr and Mrs Hs 
trouble and upset was connected to their belief that they were entitled to underpay, I think 
£100 is fair and reasonable compensation for BOS handling of the correspondence between 
them, including incorrect assertions about the involvement of the benefits agency and not treating Mr and Mrs Hs letters as a complaint when they expressed dissatisfaction as this 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Fair and reasonable?
While BOS was legally entitled to remove the flexible options due to the arrears, was it fair 
and reasonable to do so? Given the lack of medical evidence, the fact that Mr and Mrs H 
were saying that they couldnt pay in full, the fact that there wasnt an overpayment to fund 
the underpayment (and there was a limited credit limit under the flexible options agreement), 
and by 2017 it was an interest only mortgage, I think BOS acted fairly and reasonably. By 
doing so, it was stopping the arrears simply increasing without challenge (it clearly was 
objecting to the underpayments), and its relevant that £100 was significantly beneath the 
monthly amount required  the debt was simply increasing each month with no plan or 
information about how it would be resolved in the near future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Bank of Scotland plc should pay £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the trouble and upset caused by its response to their 
correspondence. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman