DRN-3150642
The complaint
Mr Y complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) didn't deal with his disputes as he would 
expect and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr Y has raised multiple issues with Equifax, regarding:
It not dealing with information he disputes should be appearing on his credit file from 
various businesses. 
It not providing call backs when he has asked for them
It not providing a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) when it was asked to
The general service it has provided to him.
Him not being able to access Equifaxs online portal
The issues began in February 2020 and Equifax has dealt with them under a number of 
different final response letters:
14 October 2020:
This response dealt with five disputes Mr Y had raised with Equifax, which he said he 
hadnt had responses to, as well as a call back he said hed requested that hadnt 
been actioned. Equifax didnt uphold this complaint, it said it had responded to all of 
the disputes and Mr Y had replied to some of those responses. It explained how he 
could access more details on each dispute by logging in to the website and gave 
instructions for this.
It went on to say that currently it didnt have a call centre open in the UK and that 
incoming calls had been impacted by this but there was a small number of customer 
service agents available if contact was urgent.
8 March 2021:
This response dealt with a dispute Mr Y had raised where he wanted all accounts 
with a particular lender removed from his account, as well as Mr Y saying he wasnt 
able to access the online portal. Equifax upheld this complaint; it said all the accounts 
relating to that lender had now been removed and apologised for any upset it may 
have caused. It also sent him a password reset for the online portal  it asked him to 
contact it if he had any further problems accessing the portal.
16 March 2021:
This response dealt with calls Mr Y had made to the customer care team. Equifax 
upheld this complaint, it said that the level of service on some of the calls wasnt up 
to the standard it would expect. It offered Mr Y £50 compensation for this.
25 June 2021:
This response dealt with the level of customer service Mr Y had received since 
Equifaxs response on 16 March 2021. Equifax upheld this complaint, it said it was 
unable to locate the calls Mr Y had referred to and so was unable to assess them, it 
offered Mr Y £50 compensation for this.
31 August 2021:
This response dealt with a dispute that Mr Y was raising about a lender showing a 
default on his account when he had offered to pay it. Mr Y also said he had never 
had responses to his previous disputes. Equifax didnt uphold this complaint, it said it 
had raised a dispute with the lender and it had 21 days to respond. It also said it 
could find no unanswered disputes on his account.
Mr Y brought his complaint to this service on 3 August 2021 he told our investigator:
He never had a single letter from Equifax, just maybe one or two emails
The portal is still not working for him 
He received poor service from Equifax throughout and it didnt call him back when it 
should have
Equifax are legally obliged to sort out his disputes, but he had to sort them out 
himself
To put things right Mr Y wanted a written and verbal apology and £500 in compensation.
Our investigator explained to Mr Y on the phone that she couldnt investigate matters relating 
to the final response issued on 14 October 2020, as it hadnt been brought to our service in 
time. So, she only considered what had happened since then, she didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said that the two offers, totalling £100 Equifax had already made were in line 
with what shed expect for the service issues Mr Y had encountered. Mr Y disagreed and so 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y requested a conversation with me to put his points across, in the interest of remaining 
impartial and fair to both parties I declined this but he was offered the chance to give verbal 
testimony by way of voicemail or by speaking on an open call which would be recorded for 
me to listen to. Mr Y did not take up either offer. However, Id like to reassure Mr Y that, Ive 
given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision, 
including listening to the call between him and our investigator where he told her his points. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. If I havent commented on something, 
its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to in order to reach the right outcome. This is not intended as a discourtesy to either party but merely reflects my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is.
To be clear this decision only relates to matters dealt with from 8 March 2021 onwards.
Level of service and call backs 
Ive considered the times Mr Y requested a call back from Equifax, and while there were 
occasions where it had said it would call back and didnt. There were also times where it did 
try to call back but was unable to reach Mr Y. There are also emails from him confirming he 
doesnt answer withheld numbers and so I cant fairly say that Equifax never called back 
when it said it would, but I agree it didnt always.
Mr Y has said that he only received one or two emails from Equifax during the time he was 
dealing with it, but I can see that the majority of the emails it sent to him were responded to. 
So, I dont agree that he didnt get the emails it was sending.
I think its worth pointing out here that some of Mr Ys emails were rude saying if there is a 
language barrier pass this email to someone who speaks English and he was also 
dismissive of speaking to any customer care staff that werent in the UK. I understand that 
Mr Y was frustrated with the situation overall, but I dont think those comments were needed 
or helpful. 
I can see Mr Y told Equifax he wasnt able to access the portal and it addressed this in its 
response of 8 March 2021 sending him a password reset. It asked him to let it know if he 
had any further problems accessing the portal. I cant see any further correspondence about 
this from Mr Y and so I cant say Equifax has done anything wrong regarding this. Im not 
disputing that Mr Y cant access the portal, but its not fair to expect Equifax to know this or 
to have done anything about it when it hasnt been informed there is still a problem.
Equifaxs obligation to deal with disputes
I think its worth explaining here what Equifaxs obligations are, as I dont think its been clear 
for Mr Y.
Equifax do not own the data that is reported on a credit file  it belongs to the individual 
lenders; Equifax just displays it. However, if a customer thinks that something is showing 
incorrectly and they raise it with Equifax, it in turn needs to raise that dispute with the 
individual lender. The lender then has time to respond and once it has issued its response, 
Equifax needs to act on it, by providing that response to the customer. If the response is to 
say that the information is correct and should remain showing and the customer disagrees, it 
is for the customer to take the dispute up with the individual lender directly. It is not Equifaxs 
role to investigate the matter or carry on the dispute on the customers behalf.
From what I have seen about the dispute Mr Y raised (addressed in Equifaxs response 
dated 31 August 2021) Equifax has acted as I would have expected it to. It raised a dispute 
with the lender and when it received a response, on 1 September 2021, it passed it on to Mr 
Y advising him to contact the lender directly, if he wanted further clarification. The message 
was posted to the online portal, I understand Mr Y may not have seen this but as Ive noted 
above, Equifax was unaware of Mr Ys issue with the portal, so I cant say it did anything 
wrong by posting this outcome to it.
DSARMr Y first made a DSAR request on 29 October 2020, on 12 November 2020 Equifax let him 
know that its offices were closed but telling him he could upload his identification documents 
through the portal, to be verified and it would complete the DSAR within one month. Im 
satisfied Mr Y received this as he responded saying you now only have 17 days but he 
didnt upload the documents through the portal or say if he had a problem in doing this.
I can see from the notes on file, he called the customer care team on 25 February 
complaining that he hadnt received the DSAR and saying that he wanted it that day. On 1 
March 2021 Mr Y spoke to a member of the customer care team  the call notes say he was 
told he would need to verify his identity for the DSAR to be processed. Mr Y said he would 
leave that for now and went on to complain about the level of service he had received. From 
the evidence Ive seen I cant see that Mr Y ever asked again about a DSAR. So, I cant say 
Equifax has done anything wrong in not providing this.
 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied the two offers Equifax has made totalling £100 is 
in line with what Id expect in the circumstances and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more to put things right for Mr Y here.
I know Mr Y will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Equifax  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman