DRN-3612953
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme with British Steel (the BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr D wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he got in touch with a representative of 
Prudential. Mr D met with Prudential in October 2017 and it gathered information about his 
circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr D was 46, that he was divorced with two 
dependent children. It was recorded that Mr D earned around £36,600 per year and had a 
mortgage on his home of around £95,000. He had a car loan of around £10,000 and didnt 
have any significant savings. It was further noted Mr D and his employer were contributing 
16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension 
scheme, equivalent to around £6,000 per year.
Prudential noted Mr D was hoping to retire from his current job at age 60 and either retire 
fully or take on some less demanding part-time work. He also said he thought he would pay 
off his mortgage using the tax-free cash (TFC) he could take from his pension at age 60. 
Mr D thought the mortgage balance would be around £35,000 by this time. Prudential 
recorded that Mr D thought he would take £2,000 per month (gross) from his pension to 
meet his needs in retirement.
 
Prudential assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as medium (5/10) and noted that he had limited 
investment experience. It further noted that Mr D believed transferring his pension would set 
himself and his children up for life. And he would benefit from the flexibility a personal 
pension would provide him with as he could reduce his income as he got older. 
In December 2017 Prudential advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits to a Prudential 
Retirement Account. It said this would give Mr D the option to retire at 60 and adjust his 
income as per his needs. Prudential said that the BSPS2 would not meet his income needs 
at age 60 after taking TFC. It said the transfer provided significantly more advantageous 
death benefits for his children and would be tax-free if death occurred before age 75. Mr D 
accepted this advice and £402,611.96 was transferred from the BSPS to his new pension.
In 2021 Mr D complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the advice he 
received, believing it may have been unsuitable for him. Mr D said he had very little pension 
knowledge and felt rushed and intimidated by the process. 
The complaint was passed to Prudential but it didnt uphold it. Prudential said it could only 
determine whether it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer out of the scheme to a 
Prudential pension, it was unable to consider whether it was in his best interests to join the 
BSPS2. But ultimately it believed the advice was suitable as Mr D wanted flexibility and 
control over how he accessed his pension, he wanted to be able to retire and repay his 
mortgage at age 60 and it was important to him to be able to leave whatever remained of his 
pension on his death to his children. Prudential said the transfer met those objectives.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr D asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought 
the advice was unsuitable as Mr D wasnt likely to be able to exceed the benefits available to 
him under the BSPS2 at age 65 and he didnt think there were any other compelling reasons 
for Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS at the time. The Investigator thought the objectives were 
generic and were not pressing needs that had to be addressed. The Investigator 
recommended Mr D should be compensated based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. 
He also thought Prudential should pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter caused.
Prudential didnt agree  it maintained the advice was suitable as the transfer met all of 
Mr Ds objectives, which could not be met by remaining in the scheme. 
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr D to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. Mr D chose to have his 
compensation calculated under the existing rules and guidance. However, Mr D was 
informed that if the complaint was not resolved by April 2023 the new rules and guidance 
would apply in any event.
In January 2023, Prudential contacted our Service to advise that although it maintained the 
advice was suitable, it had carried out a loss calculation and this showed that Mr D was not 
owed any redress. Mr D was informed of this and pointed out that Prudential had calculated 
redress based on him being married, whereas he was divorced. But Prudential confirmed it 
had correctly input Mr Ds marital status as single. 
The Investigator subsequently informed both Mr D and Prudential that if the Ombudsman 
considering the case decided to uphold it, they may require Prudential to calculate any 
redress owed to Mr D using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. Although the 
calculator has been developed specifically for the BSPS consumer redress scheme, the 
Investigator explained that the FCA encouraged firms to use the calculator for non-scheme 
cases, such as Mr Ds complaint. The Investigator invited both parties to comment if they 
had any concerns. 
Prudential responded saying that it would use the FCAs BSPS calculator and had carried 
out a new loss assessment. However, the outcome remained that Mr D had not suffered a 
loss. This was sent to Mr D and he raised concerns about the calculation  he said was not 
protected from market losses going forwards.As Mr D remained unhappy, the case was passed to me to make a final decision on the 
matter. I informed Mr D that I had reviewed the loss calculation carried out by Prudential and 
was satisfied it had been completed appropriately in line with the regulators rules and 
guidance. So, I said I didnt intend to ask it to carry out another calculation. Mr D didnt trust 
that the figures were correct and said this didnt compensate him for all of the worry the 
matter had caused.
In light of Mr Ds remaining concerns, Im now providing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Prudential is still disputing that unsuitable advice has been given. However, 
nonetheless they have carried out a loss calculation in line with the Investigators view. So 
I dont see the need to address the suitability of Prudentials advice to Mr D in detail. 
However, I would like to note that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons as follows.
Mr D was aged 46 at the time of the advice, and while he thought he would retire 
early at age 60, this was around 14 years away and so his plans couldve changed. It 
was too soon for Mr D to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB 
scheme when he had the option of joining the BSPS2; by joining it he would retain 
the option to transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.
At age 65, the critical yield (the investment return required to replicate the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2) was 4.9%. Given Mr Ds medium attitude to risk, 
the discount rate of 4.4% for 18 years to retirement and the regulators middle 
projection rate, I dont think Mr D was likely to be able to exceed his BSPS2 benefits 
at retirement by investing in line with that attitude to risk. The critical yield at age 60 
was likely to be higher than this given benefits would have to be paid for longer and 
the investment horizon to retirement was shorter. So, Mr D was likely to receive lower 
overall retirement benefits if he retired at age 60.
It wasnt clearly in Mr Ds best interests to give up the guarantees associated with his 
DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent benefits at retirement. Mr D had 
little capacity for loss  this was his main pension  and I dont think he could really 
tolerate the risk of transferring his DB pension.
Prudential says Mr D was divorced and wasnt likely to marry again so the critical 
yield wasnt relevant as it was based on him purchasing an annuity providing a 
spouses pension. But Mr D was still relatively young and couldnt rule out that having 
the benefit of a spouses pension would become important to him in the future. 
Prudential failed to do any meaningful analysis of the benefits available to Mr D 
under the BSPS2 at age 60. Prudential says it wasnt able to do that, as it could only 
compare the existing scheme with a Prudential pension, but it told Mr D in the 
suitability report that the BSPS2 wouldnt have met his income needs of £24,000 
gross per year.
But the suitability report said that at age 60, Mr D would be entitled to a pension of 
£13,715 per year after taking TFC of £91,437.74 through the BSPS2. While the 
pension wasnt enough on its own to meet Mr Ds income need, Mr D couldve used 
his leftover TFC to top up his income until his state pension became payable  Mr D 
thought he only needed around £35,000 to repay his mortgage. Mr D and his 
employer were also contributing to his DC scheme  Prudential estimated this would have a fund value of around £109,000 at age 60. Mr D couldve also used some of 
these funds to top up his income, if needed.
Evidently Mr D could have met his income objective and retained a degree of 
flexibility through his DC scheme if he remained in the DB scheme.
Mr D was concerned about death benefits for his children as he had no savings. But 
Mr D was relatively young and in good health, so there was no reason to believe he 
wouldnt be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in retirement into his old 
age.
If Mr D was concerned about leaving a legacy for his children, Prudential ought to 
have explored insurance instead, which was likely to be cheap to provide given his 
age, and wouldnt risk his own security in retirement.
It also noted Mr D had disposable income that he was saving for the benefit of his 
children  Prudential couldve advised him to redirect those savings to his DC 
scheme, where he could nominate his children to benefit from the fund on his death.
Mr Ds desire for control over his pension was overstated, he was an inexperienced 
investor and would be reliant on professional advice going forwards.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about his employer and the PPF, but it 
was Prudentials role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, 
all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still 
provided Mr D with guaranteed income and TFC, and if he retired early, the benefits 
available to him may have exceeded those under the BSPS2. Mr D could still achieve 
his retirement objectives even if his DB scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. So, Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr D as no agreement could be 
reached.
The aim is to put Mr D back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Prudential carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either the BSPS2 or the PPF (as 
uplifted to reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.I have checked the inputs that were entered by Prudential which are personal to Mr D. 
These include Mr Ds personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he 
left the scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if 
he had not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ds case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr D has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
I recognise that Mr D has concerns about the calculation carried out by Prudential  he says 
it has calculated that he only needs £362,474.22 in his pension now in order to replicate his 
BSPS2 benefits at retirement. But he says this is less than the amount he was offered to 
transfer out of the BSPS over five years ago. He believes the amount should have 
increased, not decreased, so doubts the veracity of the figures.
I can see why Mr D would question this. But the transfer value offered to Mr D by the 
scheme trustees in 2017 was based on economic factors and financial assumptions at that 
time. Annuity rates and the financial assumptions used in the redress calculation have 
changed significantly over the last 12 months, which explains why the cost of replacing 
Mr Ds benefits at retirement has reduced.
I appreciate Mr Ds concern that market conditions could become less favourable in the 
future, and that when he comes to retire he may not have enough in his pension fund to 
replace his benefits. But the regulator has set out what it considers the appropriate method 
of compensation to be in instances of unsuitable pension transfer advice and is also based 
on the approach a court would take in similar cases. Im satisfied the regulators redress 
method puts Mr D back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in had he 
not transferred his BSPS benefits.
Overall, I think the calculation carried out by Prudential is appropriate in the circumstances 
and no redress for financial losses is due to Mr D. However, I do think Prudential should pay 
Mr D £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
While the loss assessment has determined that Mr D hasnt been financially disadvantaged 
by the unsuitable advice, I accept that it has caused him a lot of worry whilst the matter 
remained unresolved.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr D 
a sum of £300 for the distress and inconvenience he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman