DRN-3697903
The complaint
Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for a hotel stay.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S used his American Express Services Europe Limited credit card 
(Amex for short) to pay for a hotel stay starting on 17 March 2020. He paid £293 for two 
nights stay and breakfasts for two. 
On 16 March 2020 the Government issued warnings about the spreading Pandemic. On 17 
March the hotels website said You can now amend (non-flexible) bookings for stays 
arriving between now and 30/04/20, and re-book for future stays at any of our hotels, subject 
to conditions and availability. Mr S says he repeatedly tried to speak to the hotel but wasnt 
successful. He says he finally got an answer from it in May 2020 and it wouldnt refund him 
or allow him to rebook. So he took his complaint to Amex his credit card provider to see if it 
could help.
Amex looked into the matter and didnt refund Mr S. Mr S, still unsatisfied, brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his Amex credit card to pay for the hotel stay. This means under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) he can bring a like claim against Amex for any 
breach or misrepresentation made by the hotel. But to be clear Amex is only liable under 
S75 where its made out that there is a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. And 
Amex isnt responsible for issues outside those two areas of liability. 
Mr Ss Amex credit card is also part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving Amex an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants (the 
Hotel), namely through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for 
consumers, nor does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the credit card provider considers the dispute has 
a reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about Amex and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision isnt 
about the Hotel who isnt a party to this decision or within my remit in this case. I hope this 
important distinction is clear.
I should also add that Mr S has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr S doesnt dispute that he used his Amex credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction. So I dont think Amex couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr S didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. Amex didnt 
raise a chargeback because it didnt feel it had a reasonable prospect of success. 
The hotel was open during the booking that Mr S made. Mr S didnt stay at the hotel during 
the booking nor agree a change of booking dates with the hotel. I appreciate Mr Ss reasons 
for not checking-in due to the spreading pandemic and the government warning made the 
previous day. But the chargeback process is a voluntary dispute process solely between 
merchants and consumers. The agreement between Mr S and the hotel made clear the 
booking was non-amendable and non-refundable.
Ive considered the card scheme rules and I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success. So I dont think Mr S lost out by Amex not raising a chargeback.
What about s75?
Ive considered the preliminary requirements set out in the CCA for a claim to be potentially 
successful. Im satisfied that the claim for the hotel stay sits within the financial limits 
applicable. And Im satisfied that the required Debtor, Creditor, Supplier relationship is also 
in place. So the initial required criteria to consider a s75 claim are satisfied.
For similar reasons as above Im not persuaded there is a breach of contract here nor a 
misrepresentation by the Hotel which means Amex should refund Mr S the amount paid. As 
Ive described there is no persuasive evidence that he couldnt have stayed at the hotel 
during the period booked. The Hotel itself says it was open until after the booking finished. 
So Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel. So 
Im not persuaded that Amex should do anything more.
I appreciate Mr Ss reasons for not going to the hotel. But that doesnt mean that the hotel 
breached its contract. The room was available to use.
Mr S says there were repeated attempts to liaise with the Hotel. But there is no persuasive 
record of the contract that Mr S had in place with the hotel being varied by agreement. So I 
dont think Amex has done anything wrong by not refunding him.
Mr S says the hotel varied the contract by what it said on its website on 17 March. I dont 
agree. In essence that message is an invitation to vary the contract by agreement. And any 
such an invitation to vary can be removed at any time by the party offering to vary. But no 
agreement to vary the contract between Mr S and the hotel was reached. Therefore the 
terms originally agreed remain unvaried. Therefore the booking was non-amendable and 
non-cancellable. So Amex has done nothing wrong by not refunding him when Mr S decided 
not to go to the hotel.Mr S says he had ample to time to change the contract on the morning of the 17 March. But 
Mr S hasnt shown he reached agreement with the hotel that morning. Mr S says he tried 
repeatedly, and I can well imagine lots of service providers receiving high call volumes at 
that time due to the Pandemic. But as there is no evidence of variation being agreed I dont 
think Amex has treated Mr S unfairly here.
Mr S says I should not be penalised because of (the Hotels) inability to provide any 
customer service. Similarly I see no fair reason why Amex, who is only involved in this 
matter due to its relationship with Mr S and its obligations therein, to pick up the cost here for 
a non-refundable or amendable contract that Mr S entered into and didnt utilise, albeit for 
completely understandable reasons. Im not persuaded Amex has done anything wrong in its 
consideration of Mr S claim.
Mr S says the hotel failed to allow him to rebook. Mr S has no right to rebook under the 
agreed contract. And in any event I note Mr S said in his email to the hotel in May 2020 As it 
is now extremely unlikely that any London theatres will re-open this year we now have no 
reason to re-book our accommodation. And as Ive described offers to vary can be made 
and removed whenever either party wishes to do so. So Amex has done nothing wrong in 
not refunding him.
Mr S says S75 makes Amex jointly and severally liable. This isnt the case. S75 provides 
that if the initial criteria are met Mr S can make a like claim to Amex as he can do against 
the hotel in court (within certain limits). So the onus is on Mr S to show that breach of 
contract or material misrepresentation is made out. And Amex is required to consider such 
claims fairly. I think it has.
In response to the Investigators assessment Mr S has noted that other people who had 
bookings managed to either rebook or come to other arrangements with the hotel. This is 
likely to be the case. But just because other parties varied their contract with the hotel by 
mutual agreement doesnt mean Amex has treated Mr S unfairly here when there is no 
persuasive evidence of such a mutually agreed variation being in place.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr S wishes to read. And hes been left with a 
significant cost for a hotel stay which he didnt have. And I appreciate he feels that the hotel 
didnt treat him fairly. And I also appreciate that Mr S felt he was doing the right thing by 
observing the government warnings about the rapidly spreading pandemic. 
But none of this persuades me that Amex has done anything wrong here either or that it is 
fair that Amex picks up this cost. And accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful. Mr S is at 
liberty to take his claim against the hotel further if he so wishes. But this decision brings to 
an end this Services involvement in this complaint between Mr S and Amex on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman