DRN-4115750
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In September 2022, Mr S tried to buy tickets from a website which turned out to be a scam. 
He gave them his credit card details to make the purchase, but the scammers instead used 
his details to make four payments at travel companies, totalling around £2,500. The 
payments were authenticated using one-time passcodes sent to Mr Ss mobile phone.
Santander explained that they werent responsible for the payments, as it seemed that Mr S 
had authorised them using the passcodes he was sent. They tried to get his money back via 
chargebacks, but this didnt succeed.
Mr Ss representative argued that Mr S did not receive the passcodes, that Santander should 
have blocked the payments, and that Santander should have done more to get his money 
back.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that the passcodes had been sent to Mr Ss genuine mobile phone number, and had 
been provided to put the disputed payments through.
Mr Ss representative asked for an ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S fell victim to a scam here, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate 
this cant have been an easy situation for him, and I appreciate why he feels his money 
should be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammers who are primarily 
responsible for what happened, and its the scammers who really owe Mr S his money back. 
But in this decision about Santander, I can only consider what Santander did. Having 
carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold 
Santander liable for Mr Ss loss. Ill explain why.
Broadly speaking, Santander can hold Mr S liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ss 
genuine card details, along with one-time passcodes which were sent to Mr Ss mobile 
phone. So I can see that these transactions were properly authenticated.
The one-time passcodes were only sent to Mr S, and no one else. Given the circumstances 
of the case and the technical data at hand, there is no plausible method by which the 
scammers could have got the codes without Mr Ss consent. And theres no evidence which 
substantiates the representatives suggestion that Santanders systems were somehow 
compromised. I understand that Mr S may genuinely not recall giving the codes to the 
scammers, and I understand that he thought the details he gave them were only intended to 
buy tickets. But I think its most likely that the scammers convinced Mr S to give them the 
codes, even if he no longer recalls doing so. These scams are often complex, sophisticated, 
and convincing. And given the evidence at hand, and the balance of probabilities, theres no 
other likely or plausible explanation for how the scammers got Mr Ss codes from him.
The one-time passcode texts set out clearly that the code would be used to authorise a 
payment, where that payment was going to, and how much it was for. And they stated that 
any requests to share a passcode will always be fraudulent. So I think Santander made the 
nature of the codes sufficiently clear to Mr S. And though Mr S wouldnt have intended for his 
money to go to a scammer, by providing the codes it means he effectively authorised the 
disputed payments. So under the Payment Services Regulations, he is liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
Ive thought carefully about whether Santander should have blocked the disputed payments. 
By providing the one-time passcodes, it meant that the payments looked like Mr Ss genuine 
payment instructions. And broadly speaking, Santander had an obligation to follow Mr Ss 
instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises them to make.
Of course, Santander should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the 
result of fraud or scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be 
struck between identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring 
theres minimal disruption to legitimate payments.
Here, I dont think the payments involved were so unusual or out of character that Santander 
needed to intervene. I accept that they were for larger than usual amounts, made from new 
IP addresses to overseas merchants. But the merchants were established travel companies, 
the amounts were not so large that Id expect them to be of particular concern, and from time 
to time customers do make larger than usual payments or access their mobile app from a 
new location. Its not particularly remarkable for a customer to suddenly spend larger 
amounts for travelling or a holiday. And ultimately, as far as Santander could see at the time, 
Mr S had approved the payments after receiving texts to his registered mobile which 
confirmed the merchants and amounts. So they could be reasonably satisfied that the 
payments had been authorised by their genuine customer.Lastly, Ive considered what Santander did to try to get Mr Ss money back. I can see that 
they tried a chargeback, and that both sides broadly blame the other for the chargeback 
failing. But Im afraid that as far as I can see, the chargeback would not have been 
successful in any case. Chargebacks can only be made for specific reasons, under specific 
conditions set by the chargeback scheme rules. And I cant see that any of those reasons 
applied here. For example, one can try a chargeback for unauthorised payments  but here, 
the payments would be considered to be authorised given the use of the passcodes Mr S 
was sent. Or one can try a chargeback if the merchant didnt deliver the goods to the place 
specified when buying  but here, the goods would have been delivered to the place the 
scammers specified when buying them. So a chargeback was not going to realistically 
succeed anyway. And Im afraid there werent any other applicable routes Santander could 
take to try to get Mr Ss money back in this case.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S, I dont think Santander should 
be held responsible for his loss. And so I cant fairly tell Santander to refund Mr Ss money in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman