DRN-4041473
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the amount paid by esure Insurance Ltd to settle a claim 
made under their home insurance policy. 
Mr L has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In 2018, Mr L made a claim for damage caused by subsidence. esure accepted it and 
made arrangements to carry out repairs in March 2020. But as a result of the 
pandemic, esures builder said it wouldnt be able to carry out the work.
Mr L provided a quote from a local builder, T, for around £50,000. esure agreed to 
settle the claim for £65,000, including Ts quote and other things, such as restoring 
the garden and compensation for claim delays. It paid this amount in May 2020.
In October 2022, Mr L got in touch with esure to ask it to increase the settlement 
amount. He said hed been unable to employ a builder to carry out the work due to 
the pandemic. And T had recently told him the cost had increased to around £80,000, 
so the settlement esure agreed in May 2020 wouldnt be enough to pay for the work. 
He also said delays during the claim had contributed to the problem.
esure didnt agree to pay anything further. It said Mr L had made an informed 
decision to accept the £65,000 cash settlement in May 2020. It didnt think it was 
responsible for the work not taking place or the increase in costs.
Our investigator thought esure had acted fairly. She said the settlement in 2020 was 
fair and the increased costs since then werent the result of any failures by esure.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about whether esure should increase the claim settlement. Mr L 
has put forward two main reasons to support his view that esure should  namely, the way it 
handled the claim before the settlement was agreed in May 2020 and what happened after.
Claim handling before the settlement was agreed
Mr L says esure caused delays by procrastinating, avoiding accepting the claim, and being 
slow to arrange for work to start. Repairs were due to begin in March 2020 but, as a result of 
the pandemic, esures builder had to cancel before they began. Mr L considers that if esure 
had handled the claim better, he wouldnt be in the position he is now.
I can see that after the builder cancelled, Mr L asked esure to settle the claim by cash 
payment so that he could arrange for a builder of his choice to carry out the work at a time 
which suited him. He asked for the settlement to include the cost of the building work, 
associated costs such as restoring the garden after the building work, and compensation for 
the way the claim had been handled.
Mr L provided the quote from T for around £50,000 and asked for a settlement of £65,000 to 
include the other points noted above. esure agreed to settle the claim for that amount.
Whilst the claim journey may not have been a positive one for Mr L, at the time the claim 
was settled in May 2020, Im satisfied a fair position had been reached. Mr L proactively 
asked to settle the claim by cash payment and esure agreed to do so. Ts quote reflected the 
cost of building work at that time and esure paid it in full. It also agreed to pay in full the 
additional amount Mr L asked for to cover other points, including compensation. So I think 
the settlement was fair at that point and resolved any problems encountered up to that time.
What happened after May 2020
Mr L says that as a result of the pandemic and associated lockdowns, he was unable to 
employ a builder to carry out the work. And by the time he got an updated quote from T in 
September 2022, the cost had increased significantly. As a result, Mr L is asking esure to 
pay him around £30,000 more to cover the increased cost of the work.
Effectively that means Mr L is asking esure to take responsibility for the increase in building 
costs between May 2020 and September 2022. esure hasnt agreed to do so and Im 
satisfied thats reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Whilst I recognise that the pandemic had an impact on building work at times, particularly 
during periods of lockdown, it didnt prevent work from continuing at all between May 2020 
and September 2022. Mr L says T was unable to start work for a number of months and 
other builders didnt respond to his enquiries. That was no doubt frustrating for him and 
caused a degree of delay. But its not clear how that has caused a gap of nearly two and a 
half years before Mr L returned to esure.
Had Mr L returned to esure soon after accepting the cash settlement because building costs 
were rising and, despite intensive efforts, he was unable to have the work carried out, I may 
have found that the unique and unpredictable circumstances at the outset of the pandemic 
meant it would have been fair for esure to consider things further.
But here, I dont think I can reasonably attribute the time taken by Mr L to return to esure 
primarily to the pandemic. So Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to ask esure to 
increase the settlement as to do so would effectively penalise it for the rising cost of building 
work over a period of around two and a half years  and its responsible for either the rise in 
costs or the timescale involved.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman