DRN-3775962
The complaint
R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its account despite its director being told a 
safeguard review had been successfully completed.
R is represented by its director Mr B.
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr B in June 2020 asking him to provide information for a safeguard review 
they needed to complete on Rs account. They sent further letters in July and August as the 
review had not been completed, followed by a letter in September advising Mr B that Rs 
account would be closed in November 2020 if the information was not provided to complete 
the review.
Mr B was abroad at the time and unable to return to the UK due to a mixture of illness and 
restrictions associated with the pandemic. So, he wasnt aware of all of HSBCs 
correspondence about the safeguard review or the closure of Rs account.
In late November 2020, Rs account was restricted as the review had not been completed 
and HSBC wrote to Mr B on 1 December to make him aware that the account was to be 
closed. 
A further letter was sent to Mr B in December advising him that the safeguard review was 
now complete and there was nothing further for him to do. 
Mr B contacted HSBC later that month to explain that he had received a letter saying the 
safeguard review was complete, however Rs account was still restricted. HSBC looked into 
the matter and called Mr B back on the same day explaining the restrictions had been lifted 
but the review still needed to be completed despite the letter he had received saying the 
review was complete.
During that call on 23 December, an extension to complete the safeguard review was 
granted to Mr B. HSBC wrote to Mr B in January 2021 confirming the extension and asking 
for his compliance with submitting the information to complete the review before 10 February 
2021. They explained that noncompliance would result in the closure of the account.
In late March, HSBC reapplied the restrictions to Rs account as the information requested 
hadnt been provided. The letter advised that the account would be closed on 24 May 2021.
Rs account was subsequently closed. Mr B complained to HSBC, but they didnt uphold the 
complaint. So, Mr B brought Rs complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into matters but he didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong in closing the account. However, he thought HSBC had provided conflicting 
information to Mr B and asked HSBC to pay £200 to Mr B in recognition of the 
inconvenience this caused. 
Mr B disagreed and said that HSBC had told him the safeguard review was complete and he 
had the letter to prove it. So, the case was passed to me to decide.
Mr B would like the account and overdraft reinstated with compensation for financial loss and 
disruption to the business from HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by agreeing that there is no dispute about the fact that HSBC sent Mr B a letter 
dated 16 December 2020 stating that the safeguard review had been completed and that 
there was nothing further he needed to do at that time. However, in the phone call of 23 
December 2020 HSBCs representative explains that although Mr B had received that letter, 
the safeguard review had been cancelled and still needed to be completed.
Having listened to this call, the representative explains that the account will be reinstated but 
he explains that although Mr B had received a thank you letter for completing the review, the 
review had actually been cancelled which meant it still needed to be completed if Mr B 
wanted to keep the account open for the foreseeable future. 
The representative says that he is very sorry and explains that an extension will be granted, 
and he will send a follow up letter to Mr B - which he sent in early January. There is no 
indication on this call that Mr B doesnt understand what is required of him. 
HSBC have told us they continued to send letters, emails and SMS messages to Mr B 
asking him to complete the review, but the review was still not completed. There is also no 
indication that Mr B contacted the safeguard review team at any stage to query why he was 
continuing to receive correspondence about the safeguard review.
Having reviewed this information, I cant say that HSBC were responsible for the safeguard 
review not being completed by Mr B. I have heard them explain to him in a phone call that 
the review still needed to be completed and they continued to correspond with Mr B about 
the outstanding information. There was plenty of opportunity for Mr B to either complete the 
review or contact the safeguard review team to query the correspondence if he 
misunderstood and thought the review was complete.
Mr B explained that he didnt receive HSBCs letters due to circumstances beyond his 
control. However, it is Mr Bs responsibility to contact his bank and make alternative 
temporary arrangements in such circumstances. Ive also seen evidence that HSBC 
contacted Mr B using alternative methods to traditional post. So, I cant say that HSBC didnt 
make Mr B aware of the situation.
Mr B has also asked why HSBC didnt discuss the matter with him during calls about his 
overdraft and repayment plans. However, these calls were made by alternative business 
areas of HSBC about specific matters and I wouldnt have expected the safeguard review to 
be discussed during these calls. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr B questioned the 
correspondence he received about the safeguard review on any of these calls. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that the closure of the account wasnt discussed on these calls.
HSBC have agreed to pay the £200 suggested by our investigator to R for the confusion 
their letter of 16 December 2020 caused which said the safeguard review had been 
completed. And I agree this £200 covers the inconvenience caused when the account was 
briefly restricted despite this letter being sent. However, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B completed the review after the extension was 
granted despite being advised on multiple occasions that information was outstanding. As a 
result, I havent found that HSBC have treated him unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I havent found that HSBC were to blame for the 
closure of Rs account.  
I understand this wont be the decision that Mr B was hoping for but for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I wont be asking HSBC to take any additional action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £200 to R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman