DRN-1846990
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2) reloading incorrect 
information on to his credit file.
What happened
Mr K initially raised a complaint about incorrect information being recorded on his credit file. 
This complaint is subject to a separate investigation by this service. 
While Mr Ks complaint was being investigated a new issue arose as incorrect information 
was reloaded onto his credit file. O2 issued a final response letter addressing this in March 
2020. It explained that following Mr K raising the new issue on 30 November 2019, it 
investigated the issue and corresponded with Mr K on several occasions between then and 
6 February. It confirmed that the issue had been resolved and Mr Ks credit file had been 
updated and wouldnt be affected again by this issue. It accepted it took around two months 
for the issue to be resolved and apologised for this and offered to provide Mr K with a credit 
of £75.
Our investigator considered the impact the reloading of the incorrect information had on 
Mr K. He didnt find evidence that this issue had caused Mr K any financial loss and thought 
most of the inconvenience he had been caused was due to the ongoing issue which was 
being dealt with separately. Regarding the distress caused by this specific issue he thought 
the offer made by O2 of £75 was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision relates to the additional distress and inconvenience Mr K has suffered for the 
issues that arose due to incorrect data being reloaded on his credit file. O2s final response 
letter relating to this issue is dated 2 March 2020. Issues caused by the initial recording of 
the incorrect information are being dealt with in a separate investigation.
Mr K raised concerns at end November 2019 that incorrect information had been reloaded 
on to his credit file with one of the credit reference agencies. This was after a previous 
amendment had been made to correct the data. Where a mistake has been made - as is the 
case in this complaint as the incorrect data shouldnt have been reloaded - we would expect 
the business to put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the mistake 
not been made and, where appropriate pay compensation.  
O2 confirmed in its final response letter dated 2 March 2020 that Mr Ks credit file had been 
updated and the issue wouldnt occur again. This means that he was put back in the position 
he would have been had the mistake not been made.
However, the resolution of this complaint took an extended period during which Mr K 
contacted the credit reference agency directly to establish what had happened and was in 
contact with O2. This caused him inconvenience and as Mr K has explained he suffers from 
mental health issues I can appreciate that this situation would have caused him anxiety and 
distress. Given this I find that it is reasonable that he should be paid compensation.
In its final response letter, O2 apologised for the time taken to resolve Mr Ks complaint and 
offered to credit him with £75. Mr K didnt think this was enough to reflect the issue he 
experienced and how O2 treated him regarding setting up his new complaint.
I understand this has been a distressing issue for Mr K. However, I have to consider what is 
a fair amount of compensation. In this case I have no evidence that the issue caused Mr K a 
financial loss therefore compensation is only required to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. I appreciate Mr K has experienced ongoing issues with O2, 
but this decision only considers the distress and inconvenience due to the issues raised in 
November 2019. Having considered this, I find that £75 is reasonable to reflect the time he 
spent contacting the credit reference agency and dealing with O2 in respect to the reloading 
of the incorrect information on to his credit file.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr K wants, but I find that the offer made by O2 of £75 
compensation is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2) should (if it hasnt already) 
provide the £75 credit it offered to Mr K in its final response letter in settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman