DRN-3568693
The complaint
Mr Z complains about delays in opening an account and in transferring shares with Shard 
Capital Partners LLP. He says this caused him financial loss. Mr Z also complains that Shard 
misled him about the opportunities it would offer him once he opened his account.
During the course of his contact with Shard, Mr Z spoke with several Shard employees such 
as investment managers, heads of departments and brokers. Ill refer to all of Shards 
employees as its agent(s).
What happened
The timeline below is relevant to this complaint (all in 2020):
10 September  following initial conversations, Shard sent Mr Z an introductory 
email. A link to Shards online application form was included.
11 September  Mr Z emailed Shard saying another firm was offering lower fees. The 
agent responded as follows (bold my emphasis): That is a great deal and to be 
honest, if this broker will take the stock in, execute and release the funds back to you 
guys in the UK with no quibble then it is well worth taking. If you go down this route 
please let me know, as it could still be a value enhancing process to sign up with 
ourselves and be privy to UK fundraisers we can present to you.
2 October (Friday)  Mr Z emailed the agent saying the other firm was messing 
around far too long and he asked about transferring his shares to Shard. Mr Z 
then tried to apply for an account using an online application form but he had some 
technical difficulties with this. 
6 October (Tuesday)  the agent emailed Mr Z to say the application he made online 
was incomplete. Later that day he posted Mr Z a paper application form.
8 October 2020  the agent emailed Mr Z to ask if hed had a chance to complete the 
application form and noted that shares Mr Z held in a company Ill refer to as M, had 
closed above $32. Mr Z responded by saying: Havent (sic) had a chance yet. Will 
look at tomorrow as exceptionally busy the last few days.
12 October  the agent received Mr Zs application form but he (Mr Z) said that he 
hadnt provided his bank details or date of birth due to security reasons.
13 October  the agent spoke to Mr Z by phone and asked questions about Mr Zs 
employment. Several emails followed with the agent confirming that Shard would 
require bank statements and more information regarding Mr Zs employment before 
an account could be opened. Some information was disclosed by Mr Z over the 
phone. Over the course of the week, the agent emailed Mr Z asking for missing 
information so that Shard could undertake source of wealth assessments.
19 October  Mr Z called Shard expressing dissatisfaction with the delays. Mr Z was 
extremely upset and said hed lost a lot of money due to Shards delays. Shard 
explained why they needed source of wealth documents and confirmed an account 
would not be opened until this was received.
20 October  the requested bank statements were received by Shard and Mr Zs 
account (the account) was opened on the same day.
22 October  The deposit/withdrawal at custodian (DWAC) process began. This 
process allows shares to be transferred electronically. There were several parties 
involved in the transfer process including a local US dollar sub-custodian who Ill 
refer to as B.
27 October  three business days later, Shard contacted the business where the 
shares were being held (the transferring business) to provide it with instructions 
received from B. Over the next few days there were several emails between the 
transferring business and Shard because there was some confusion over what 
information was needed to enable the transfer business to progress matters.
29 October  Shard contacted B directly in order to try to facilitate the transfer. 
Several more emails followed between Shard and the transferring business with Mr Z 
being copied into some of these emails as well as being sent emails directly from the 
Shard agent dealing with the transfer.
4 November  the shares in M were received in Mr Zs account.
6 November  Shards agent advised Mr Z that based on the interactions he had with 
him Mr Z), Shard wasnt prepared to offer an advisory service due to not feeling 
comfortable with Mr Zs reaction to losses and the risks involved in investing in the 
stock market. The agent confirmed the account would be a telephone based, 
execution only service.
Mr Z complained saying that Shard had caused unreasonable delays. He said hed lost out 
on around $97,710 as a consequence of Shards actions. Mr Z also said hed been told by 
Shard that he would be able to access pre-IPO (pre-initial public offerings) opportunities and 
an advisory service. He was only told after the transfer this would not be the case.
Shard rejected the complaint. It said that its agents kept in touch with Mr Z throughout the 
account opening process and did make it clear why certain documents were needed. It said 
it was required to conduct know your customer and due diligence checks before opening an 
account. And because Mr Z hadnt fully completed his application form and/ or provided the 
necessary documents this did delay matters. It noted that because Mr Z was self-employed 
and between jobs, additional information was required to assess his source of wealth. Shard 
added that once the DWAC process began there was delays with B processing the request 
but this wasnt something it had any control over.
Shard said that in terms of not offering Mr Z an advisory service, which was needed before 
IPOs and similar offerings could be recommended to him, it was at its discretion to provide 
these services. And it had decided that based on Mr Zs attitude to risk, it took a business 
decision not to offer this service to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She thought Shard had acted 
reasonably in terms of the account opening process. And that it could not be held 
responsible for matters outside its control such as that was caused by third parties. Our 
investigator didnt think Shard had made any promises to Mr Z about pre-IPO opportunities.
Mr Z disagreed. In summary, he said:
Shard should take responsibility for the actions of B as this was its agent.
Shards agents (its employees) didnt manage his expectations about how long the 
process would be.
He considered Shards compliance department found a fault which could have been 
avoided if Shard had done its job correctly.
He was encouraged to open an account when he was told hed have a chance to 
invest in UK pre-IPO opportunities. He believed Shard had changed its terms without 
his consent and the investigator had failed to consider this.Further correspondence ensued. But the investigator didnt change her view. So the matter 
was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 31 May 2022. In brief, 
whilst I agreed with the outcome recommended by the investigator, it included different 
reasons.
Shard accepted my provisional decision. In summary, Mr Z said:
The Ombudsman made a number of errors including that he was self-employed at 
the time of his application.
If Shard had taken him through the application process it would have saved him time. 
Because he was self-employed, he was unable to spend the time to complete the 
process. Shard could have helped him with this.
He had provided documents for the registration process. It was because Shard had 
been unclear about what it wanted that caused delays.
The DWAC process shouldve been done within 48hours not ten working days  this 
is the industry standard.
Shard should take responsibility for any delays caused to the process as B was 
acting on its behalf.
Shard rejected him for its advisory service because he dared to complain not 
because of his attitude to risk. In any event, Shard has incorrectly assessed his 
attitude to risk because hed clearly demonstrated he was able and willing to take the 
risks related to pre-IPO investments. He was never properly assessed at any stage.
He is entitled to recover his losses from Shard as its actions, and the actions of B 
acting on its behalf, led to delays and meant he could not sell his investments when 
he wanted to.
Mr Z ended by saying: the Ombudsman needs to reconsider the decision based on these 
facts and must deal with the points Ive (sic) raised like the failures of the account manager 
that initially caused delay and misinformation together with the fact that the decision to 
prevent me from having access to UK pre IPOs was not about my attitude to risk, but 
because I dared to complain. So, the matter has been passed back to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr Z says, Im satisfied Shard has 
behaved reasonably and fairly. But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its 
important for me to note I very much recognise his strength of feeling about this matter. He 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate subject 
heading as Mr Z has done  its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in 
this case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr Z and Shard, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
The reasons for my final decision remain the same as that set out in my provisional decision. 
These reasons are as follows:
In terms of Mr Zs complaint about the delays, Im satisfied these delays were not the fault of 
Shard. The timeline above clearly demonstrates that most of the delays in opening the 
account from 10 September up until 20 October, were due to Mr Z either not submitting his application form or failing to provide the requested documents. I dont think Shard was being 
unreasonable given it needed this information to allow it to carry out legal and regulatory 
duties. I appreciate Mr Z had his own concerns about security. But I dont think Shard has 
acted unreasonably.
Mr Z said he had technical difficulties with completing the online application form. But I can 
see as soon as he raised this with Shard, it sent out an application form by post on the day 
of his call, which was on 6 October. When the agent followed this up with Mr Z, on 
8 October, he (Mr Z) said he hadnt had a chance to complete the form. It took a further few 
days for the completed form to be returned. Once Mr Z provided all the requested 
documents, the account was opened on the same day these were received (20 October). 
So, I dont think theres any evidence of Shard unreasonably delaying matters.
Mr Z says Shard hasnt managed his expectations correctly in that it didnt let him know how 
long the account opening process would take. But I think it told him what he needed to do 
before it would agree to open the account. And once he provided all the documents, the 
account was opened on the same day of receipt.
In terms of delays to Mr Zs shares being transferred to his account, I see this process 
wasnt just reliant on the actions of Shard. There were several third parties involved including 
the transferring business and the sub-custodian which was needed because the trade was in 
US dollars. I know Mr Z says B was acting as an agent of Shard, but I can only hold it 
responsible for its actions. And from what I can see Shard did proactively chase matters with 
both the transferring business and with B. And it kept Mr Z informed of the actions it was 
taking to try to resolve matters.
I should also note that as Shard explained to Mr Z the DWAC process is not a standard 
process and wasnt something it had much experience of. So, it was undertaken under a 
best endeavours basis and no timescale was given for how long it would take. In the end 
from beginning to end it took around ten working days to complete which I dont think was an 
unreasonable amount of time for a stocks and shares transfer. And during the transfer 
process, I can see Shard proactively chased all parties concerned. I think Shard acted 
reasonably and fairly in all the circumstances.
Turning now to what services Shard offered to Mr Z. I can see there was discussion at an 
early stage of: UK fundraisers, which Shard has confirmed referred to IPOs. I can hear 
during a call on 13 October, that the Shard agent asked if Mr Z would still be interested in 
these opportunities. So, I dont agree with our investigator that these opportunities werent 
put to Mr Z. At the same time, during the call, the agent clearly told Mr Z that hed first need 
to go through what he (the agent) called Shards KYC process  he explained to Mr Z this 
meant he (the agent) would need to carry out an assessment of his (Mr Zs) attitude to risk 
and investment experience before this service could be offered to him.
Shard has explained further that in order to be advised about IPOs and other similarly high 
risk investments, a customer needs to be accepted for its advisory service. But because of 
Mr Z attitude to risk, which it assessed from several calls with him, it wasnt deemed suitable 
for him. Having listened to several calls between Mr Z and Shards agents, including calls 
made on 19 October 2020, its clear his level of anxiety and distress when he saw his share 
prices falling, was extremely high. I appreciate why this was given the amount of money 
involved. But I also think that Shard were entitled to make an assessment as to whether an 
advisory service was suitable for Mr Z based on its contact with him. This is a legitimate 
business decision for it to make.
During the call Mr Z had with the Shard agent on 6 November, it was clearly explained to 
him (Mr Z) why he wasnt accepted for the advisory service. Whilst Mr Z says he would have been happy to take the risks involved in investing in IPOs, I dont think Shard was under any 
obligation to provide an advisory service to him, if it was something it didnt feel comfortable 
with. And whilst Mr Z now says it was the promise Shard made about having access to UK 
IPO opportunities, his main focus seemed to be on the fact it was one of only a few UK 
businesses that offered to transfer shares using the DWAC process.
Nonetheless, even if the promise of IPOs was his main reason for transferring, I think Shard 
made it reasonably clear to Mr Z that he would only be offered this service if the advisory 
service which would give him access to the IPOs, was deemed suitable for him. All in all, 
based on the information it had through its dealings with Mr Z, I think Shard was entitled to 
take a business decision not to offer him a particular service for the reasons it has said. I 
also think it communicated this to him in a clear, fair, and not misleading way.
In terms of Mr Zs further points, I dont think he has provided anything substantially different 
to his previous submissions. But for completeness:
I appreciate Mr Z doesnt think ten days is a reasonable timeframe and says he was 
told that it should not have taken longer than 48hours. But even if this were the case, 
I would still need to make an assessment based on all the facts as to whether Shard 
had acted unreasonably. And taking into account all the evidence Mr Z has provided 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still satisfied Shard acted reasonably by 
proactively chasing matters with B and also by keeping Mr Z up to date. 
I also appreciate Mr Z says he was self-employed. My provisional decision notes this 
point. But Shard was still entitled to ask him to provide further information due to his 
particular circumstances. This was part of its process which was designed to meet 
with its regulatory and legal duties. So, I dont consider these requirements were 
unreasonable.
In terms of Mr Zs point about the account manager, as Ive said, I dont think the 
delays were caused by Shard or its agents (employees). 
Whilst Mr Z says he provided everything requested by Shard when he was asked to, 
I consider the evidence supports there was a delay to him doing so. The evidence 
also supports that when he did provide the requested information, the account was 
opened on the same day of receipt. I appreciate Mr Z thinks Shard wasnt clear about 
what it wanted but I dont think the evidence supports this claim.
I take on board what Mr Z has said about his attitude to risk. But as Ive said above, 
Shard has taken a business decision, which it was entitled to take. The lead up to its 
decision shows there were a number of conversations between Mr Z and Shard. As a 
result of some of these conversation Shard decided that Mr Zs attitude to risk did not 
match its requirements for an advised account. I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably here particularly as it still offered him an execution only account. 
I know Mr Z thinks Shard and its employees could have done more to help him with 
his application. But Im satisfied that in all the circumstances, it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Zs case.
For all these reasons, whilst Ive taken into account all the further evidence and submissions 
provided by Mr Z, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint..Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman