DRN-3878420
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a claim 
for her dogs surgery in March 2022 as they say she had pre-existing problems with her 
breathing. Mrs C doesnt agree and wants her claim to be paid.
What happened
Mrs C has insurance for her dog with C&G. Her policy started on 16 April 2020 and clearly 
states that cover isnt provided for pre-existing conditions. 
In March 2022 Mrs Cs dog had surgery for Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome 
(BOAS). When she submitted a claim for the cost of this surgery to C&G it was declined on 
the basis that her dog had breathing difficulties before the policy started, so the condition 
was pre-existing and wasnt covered by her policy. 
And C&G said had they been made aware of the dogs breathing difficulties, theyd have 
added an exclusion to her policy in respect of all claims with respect to The Respiratory 
System. So they added this exclusion to the policy from the date of inception.
C&G referred to the following entries in the dogs clinical records:
7.11.2014  O reports dude well, breed related noises when breathing.
15.10.2021  Problems with breathing worse in hotter months  Adv BOAS surgery.
10.03.2022  Discuss BOAS and sx, including aims/risks/ option of referral, etc
15.03.2022  BOAS. Bilateral nasal fold wedge resection. Sutured with 2M Vicryl. Soft 
palatine shortening.
Mrs C didnt accept C&Gs decision to decline her claim and raised a complaint. C&G didnt 
uphold this as they said she hadnt declared the breathing noises discussed with her vet on 
7 November 2014. And had she declared these when her policy was taken out, theyd have 
excluded any claims relating to her dogs respiratory system, and the claim wouldnt have 
been covered.
Mrs C wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and said she didnt think C&G had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Mrs C had told us she felt C&G had acted unfairly as her dog is snub-nosed and she 
declared this when she took out the policy. Her breed is prone to breathing difficulties, but 
C&G never raised this, or said they couldnt provide cover.
Our investigator said shed considered whether C&G had fairly applied the policy terms and 
conditions in the circumstances. And whether Mrs C had reasonable knowledge when she 
took out the policy of something shed might have to claim for in the future.
She said C&G say the dog had shown signs of breathing difficulties as early as 2014, prior to 
the policy commencing in April 2020. And they relied on her medical history which shows the 
vet noted problems with breathing getting worse in hot weather in October 2020 and BOAS 
surgery being advised in October 2021. 
Our investigator looked at the policy terms and conditions and said these define a pre-
existing condition as a diagnosed or undiagnosed condition and/or associated condition 
which has happened or shown clinical signs or symptoms of existing before the policy start 
date or waiting period. While our investigator accepted that Mrs Cs dog had shown clinical 
signs of having breathing issues in 2014, she said theres no further evidence to support that 
they were discussed or noted by a vet until October 2020. So she wasnt convinced Mrs C 
had known shed need to make a claim for BOAS when the policy commenced in April 2020.
C&G also relied on the note stating the dogs breathing worsened in hotter weather in 2020, 
which they say is a symptom of breathing difficulties. Mrs Cs vet advised BOAS surgery was 
required in October 2021, after renewal in April 2021. Our investigator didnt think Mrs C 
would reasonably have thought that the issues her dog had in October 2020 would have led 
to the need for BOAS surgery, and that shed need to make a claim for this in the future.
And she also though it was unfair for C&G to add the exclusion in respect of respiratory 
symptoms to Mrs Cs policy as she wasnt asked about this during the sale of the policy, and 
when she was asked the policy was already in force.
So our investigator recommended C&G pay the claim in line with the policy limit and any 
applicable excess, with 8% interest on any amount paid by Mrs C from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Mrs C was happy with our investigators opinion, but C&G werent. They said that BOAS is 
usually only diagnosed in certain breeds of dogs, and that with dogs of the same breed as 
Mrs Cs, less than half will suffer from BOAS. So it would be unfair to decline cover for 
respiratory symptoms from the start of a policy based purely on the dogs breed. 
They said they declined Mrs Cs claim as her dog suffered from respiratory noises, which 
they say is a clear symptom of BOAS, prior to policy inception. And while there was an 
extended period of time between the dog suffering from respiratory noises and undergoing 
BOAS surgery, they say this is quite common as the risk of undergoing general anaesthetic 
often outweighs the benefits of the BOAS surgery, and many vets will avoid placing a 
brachycephalic pet under sedation unless it is absolutely necessary.
Another investigator reviewed C&Gs further comments and provided a further opinion. She 
agreed that the complaint should be upheld, and C&G should pay the claim in line with the 
policy limit and any applicable excess, together with 8% interest on any payments made by 
Mrs C. And she said the exclusion for the respiratory system should be removed from Mrs 
Cs policy.
She said C&G are well aware of our approach in respect of pre-existing conditions. And that 
we consider it fair for an insurer to decline a claim where a consumer had reasonable 
knowledge, when taking out the policy, of something that they may need to claim for in the 
future. 
But in this case the last noted problems with the dogs breathing were in November 2014 
and theres no further mention of her breathing in her clinical records. In addition, the 
breathing difficulties are described as breed associated noises when breathing. So she 
didnt think Mrs C could reasonably have thought in April 2020, that the breathing noises 
made by her dog in 2014, were a symptom of a condition shed need to claim for in the 
future.And in respect of the exclusion she said Mrs C wasnt asked any direct questions during the 
sales process. And while there are questions detailed on the schedule, the policy was 
already in force at that stage, so she didnt think it was fair to add the exclusion.
Mrs C was happy with our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt accept it, so the case has 
now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider in this case is whether, based on Mrs Cs dogs clinical records 
she had a pre-existing condition when her policy started in April 2020. And if she did whether 
it was reasonable for C&G to decline the claim for her BOAS surgery and add an exclusion 
to her policy in respect of the respiratory system. 
Our approach to pre-existing symptoms is that we consider it reasonable for an insurer to 
decline a claim where a consumer had reasonable knowledge, when taking out the policy, of 
something that they may need to claim for in the future. 
Mrs C took out her policy in April 2020. Her dog is of a breed that can be prone to breathing 
difficulties. But C&G themselves have said that less than half of this breed of dogs ever 
require BOAS surgery. Prior to Mrs C taking out her policy the only reference to her dogs 
breathing in her clinical records, is a note on 7 November 2014 of breed related noises 
when breathing. But the note also says that the dog was well. And there were no concerns 
noted about her breathing.
Theres nothing further in the clinical records about the dogs breathing until October 2020, 
when its noted that the dog has BOAS. Its also noted that shed put on a little weight and 
this could be contributing.
Then in October 2021 its noted that the dog had problems with her breathing, which were 
worse in hotter months, and BOAS surgery was recommended. 
C&G have said that because of the risks of anaesthetic with a snub-nosed breed of dog, vets 
with often put off BOAS surgery, because the risks outweigh the benefits. But theres no 
evidence that this is what happened here. Theres simply no mention of BOAS surgery 
before October 2020.
Based on the available evidence I dont think Mrs C would reasonably have known, when 
she took out her policy, that her dog was likely to require BOAS surgery. So I dont think 
C&G acted fairly in declining her claim for the cost of her dogs surgery, as there was no pre-
existing condition. And I require them to pay her claim subject to any applicable policy limit 
and excess. 
And based on the dogs clinical history and the questions Mrs C was asked when she took 
out her policy, I dont think it was fair for C&G to add an exclusion to her policy in respect of 
The Respiratory System. So this exclusion should be removed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. And to put things right I require them to pay her claim for the cost of her dogs BOAS surgery 
subject to any applicable policy limit and excess. Together with interest at 8% simple on any 
amount paid by Mrs C from the date of payment until the date of settlement. And to remove 
the exclusion from her policy in respect of all claims related to The Respiratory System.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman