DRN-3369466
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on a 
landlords legal expenses and rent guarantee insurance policy.
Claims on Mrs Bs policies are administered by a third party on Amtrusts behalf. Where I 
refer to Amtrust in this decision, this includes this representative.
What happened
Mrs B owns and rents out a property. She holds insurance with Amtrust for her legal 
expenses and a rent guarantee. Her tenant ceased paying rent in 2020 and so Mrs B made 
a claim on the policy. She was seeking cover for legal representation to evict the tenant and 
payment of the arrears under the rent guarantee.
After obtaining information from Mrs B, Amtrust declined the claim. It said that the length of 
the tenancy agreement Mrs B had entered into with the tenant was too long and specifically 
excluded by the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs B complained to Amtrust. It maintained that the claim had been correctly declined but 
did identify that communication with Mrs B during the claim could have been better. It offered 
£100 compensation to recognise this.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought that Amtrust had acted fairly in declining the claim and that the £100 compensation 
was appropriate to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service 
received by Mrs B. 
Mrs B didnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to refer to the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy. The policy 
terms and conditions include a definition of a tenancy agreement. A valid tenancy 
agreement within the terms and conditions is required for the various sections of cover, 
including legal expenses cover and the rent guarantee. The definition in the policy terms and 
conditions includes a clause which says:
The initial tenancy agreement must be for a fixed term of no more than 12 months.
The initial tenancy agreement between Mrs B and her tenant was 36 months. Im therefore 
satisfied that the agreement which has led to the dispute for which Mrs B claims wasnt one 
which fell within the definition of a tenancy agreement as outlined in the policy terms and 
conditions.
In her response to our investigator, Mrs B indicated that she thought the policy had been 
mis-sold, and that the managing agent of the property had prepared the tenancy agreement 
and recommended the policy. The complaint here is about the decision to decline cover for 
the claim, made by Amtrust as the insurer, and how the claim was handled. Concerns about 
the conduct of the managing agent would need to be directed to them, and any complaints 
policy they have. Similarly, any complaint about this policy being mis-sold would need to be 
directed to the intermediary with whom Mrs B took out the policy. I cant comment on the 
merits of, or the jurisdiction of our service over any such complaints.
Amtrust has said that its handling of the claim could have been better. I understand from Mrs 
B that she believed that after providing further information, her claim was to be accepted and 
legal representation would be arranged. I cant see this was ever promised to her, but I do 
agree with Amtrust that the way its requests for information were communicated could have 
been clearer, with explanations given of what was being sought and why, and what the next 
steps would be on receipt of the information.
I think, however, that the £100 offered as compensation is sufficient to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs B by this lack of clarity. I cant agree that Amtrusts actions 
were misleading or otherwise inappropriate. It didnt confirm she had cover and then 
withdraw it. The terms and conditions are clear in my view that the circumstances of Mrs Bs 
claim werent covered so I cant agree she had a reasonable expectation that the claim was, 
or would be, covered. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman