DRN-3294332
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. Mr Ss complaint is about how Ageas investigated a claim he made 
following damage to his van.
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents.
This decision covers the issue of whether Ageas properly investigated the claim, specifically 
Mr Ss view that the handbrake was faulty. The decision doesnt consider Ageass decision 
to deem the van to be a total loss (or the settlement value offered by Ageas for the van as a 
total loss) as neither were raised in Mr Ss complaint.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr Ss van was parked but rolled down a hill and collided with a wall at a third-
party property, causing significant damage to the van. Mr S contacted Ageas to lodge a 
claim. He said that hed put the handbrake on when he parked his van, so he believed the 
accident was a result of a faulty handbrake. As hed only bought the van in March 2021, he 
thought Ageas should pursue the dealership from where hed bought the van to recover the 
cost of the damage under the claim. 
Ageas noted that the van had initially failed its most recent MOT (in the previous December) 
due to issues including the brakes but had subsequently passed. Ageass engineer thought 
that the handbrake might not have been fully applied, leading to the van rolling down the hill. 
The salvage company where the van was taken to after the accident said they checked the 
handbrake and it appeared to be working normally.
Ageas also considered the damage to the van, which they considered so significant it was 
beyond economic repair and so would be deemed a total loss. They offered Mr S £9,810 
(less the policy excess of £250). Mr S rejected the offer, saying that the dealership should 
pay for the loss under the warranty that came with the van. He also disputed the engineers 
view (that the handbrake may not have been fully applied) and asked that they examine the 
handbrake more closely. The engineer then inspected the van but concluded there were no 
issues with the handbrake. Based on this, Ageas maintained their decision that the 
handbrake hadnt been properly applied and therefore they were treating the claim as a fault 
claim against Mr S (given they thought the handbrake was working, they wouldnt be able to 
pursue recovery of the claim costs against either the dealer that sold the van to Mr S or any 
warranty company).
Unhappy at Ageass decision, Mr S complained. Ageas considered his complaint but didnt 
uphold it. In their final response they said the engineers findings were that the handbrake 
was working at the time of the accident and that it took hold. They confirmed their offer of 
£9,810 for the total loss value of his van (less the £250 excess due under the policy).
Unhappy at Ageass response, Mr S complained to this service. He was unhappy at how 
Ageas investigated his claim and that they hadnt investigated the problem with the 
handbrake he said was covered by the warranty from the dealer where hed bought his van. 
He felt Ageas should have carried out a more comprehensive investigation into the 
handbrake problem and base the final outcome of his claim on those investigations. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Ageas had handled the claim 
fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and didnt need to do 
any more. Theyd also acted reasonably in relying on the findings of their engineer that the 
handbrake was in working order at the time of the incident.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think Ageas had properly investigated the claim, particularly the issue 
with the handbrake. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is that Ageas didnt properly investigate his claim, 
specifically his view that the handbrake on his vehicle was faulty (and so had caused 
the accident). Ageas say their engineer inspected the vehicle and found the 
handbrake to be in working order. In considering this point, while I have no reason to 
doubt what Mr S has said about his applying the handbrake when he parked his van, 
Ive noted that the salvage company to where the van was recovered told Ageas that 
the handbrake was working. Ageas then sent an engineer to inspect the van, 
including checking the handbrake. The engineers report states that:
Special attention was paid to the handbrake. The handbrake took hold on the 
5th notch, Ratchet and prowl were found to be in working order.
As the handbrake was checked both by the salvage company and subsequently by the 
engineer (who specifically tested it) then Im persuaded that they reported what they found. 
Based on this, it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that there wouldnt be any realistic 
prospect of pursuing either the dealership or the company that may have provided a warranty 
on the vehicle when it was sold to Mr S. 
The terms of the policy provide for Ageas to take over and settle any claim, and Ive 
concluded its reasonable that they took the decision that there were no realistic grounds to 
pursue a claim for the recovery of costs arising from the accident. 
Based on these factors, Ive concluded that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when 
concluding that the handbrake on Mr Ss wasnt faulty, based on the views of their 
engineer (and their report from inspecting the vehicle). At that point, if Mr S still felt 
that the handbrake was faulty, then he would have had the option to engage his own 
engineer to inspect the van and the handbrake (Ive noted from Ageass case notes 
that the van was kept by the salvage firm for a period to provide such an opportunity, 
had Mr S decided to pursue that option).
So, Ive concluded that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in assessing Mr Ss claim.
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman