DRN-2751115
The complaint
P, a limited company, has complained about the amount offered by Society of Lloyd's 
(SoL) in settlement of its claim under its commercial property insurance policy for fire 
damage. P is represented by its director, Mr A.
What happened
P owned a property which it let out to a business owned by Mr As wife. In January 2017, 
there was a fire at the property. P made a claim under the policy but SoL declined the claim. 
It considered that P had made misrepresentations both at the time it took out the policy and 
when it made the claim. P complained to SoL about its decision but SoL wouldnt change 
this. P therefore referred the complaint to us.
In September 2019, a fellow ombudsman issued a final decision upholding the complaint. He 
concluded that SoL had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He said it should settle the 
claim subject to the necessary validation of the claim and the terms of the policy. P accepted 
the ombudsmans decision.
In November 2019, SoL wrote to Mr A seeking further information to enable it to validate the 
claim. SoL noted that Mr A had submitted details of his claim in February 2018 but said it 
didnt agree that certain elements of it were valid.
Mr A responded later in November 2019. He provided some further information in respect of 
his claim but said that supporting information had been previously provided. He said that if 
SoL were not going to accept this information, he would appoint a chartered surveyor to 
draw up a schedule of repairs and would then obtain quotes which he would forward to SoL 
to use as the basis for a discussion about a settlement. He further said that his claim for loss 
of rent had increased as a result of SoLs failure to settle the claim and he now expected this 
to cover a period of three years which he believed amounted to a loss of rent of £75,060.
In December 2019, SoL wrote again to Mr A. It continued to dispute the scope of repairs 
which were required as a result of the fire and highlighted examples of where it believed 
Mr A was seeking to claim for repairs which were not covered. It therefore suggested Mr A 
either provide a breakdown of the previously claimed cost or that he go ahead with his 
suggestion to appoint, at his own cost, a chartered surveyor to produce a schedule of works 
which its own surveyor could then check and validate. It continued to ask for more evidence 
in support of Mr As contents claim, in particular evidence to show proof of purchase of the 
items for which he was claiming. It disputed that it was liable for three years loss of rent and 
said that under the terms of the policy its liability was limited to a 24 month period and a total 
amount of £33,360.
Mr A responded a couple of days later. He said he had over time obtained three different 
repair quotes and in the interest of resolving the dispute was prepared to accept a settlement 
based on the lowest of these, which was £74,460 (including VAT). He said he had also over 
time obtained three different estimates to replace his damaged contents and that he was 
prepared to accept a settlement based on the lowest of these which was £35,280 (including 
VAT). He maintained that a particular policy clause meant he was entitled to cover for up to 
three years loss of rent but said that in any case it was SoLs failures in dealing with the 
claim which had caused the loss to extend for such a period. He had recalculated his loss of 
rent over the three year period to be £72,975. He also calculated he had incurred additional 
costs such as removal of debris and reconnection of the gas supply which totalled £12,013. 
Allowing for the deduction of the policys £300 excess, he therefore put his total loss at 
£194,428. He asked SoL to provide this settlement, plus interest.
In January 2020, SoL responded. It pointed out that under the terms of the policy, it was 
liable to pay the amount it would cost to reinstate damaged property and contents only if that 
reinstatement took place (and it would not normally pay VAT until that cost was actually 
incurred, or at least the works had started). Otherwise, SoL would be liable only for the loss 
in the propertys market value. It therefore said that if Mr A wanted to claim for the full 
reinstatement value of the buildings and contents, he would need to provide the necessary 
information to enable the proper validation of the claim and show that the works would take 
place without unnecessary delay. It considered the information he had provided so far was 
lacking in detail but, based on this and excluding what it considered to be outside of cover, it 
was prepared to offer a VAT-inclusive settlement of £45,000 for the buildings repair, £23,370 
for the contents, and £31,970 for loss of rent, making a total (after a deduction of the policys 
£300 excess) of £100,040. It said it would be prepared to add interest to this. It didnt accept 
it was liable for the additional costs which had been claimed by Mr A.
Mr A obtained further estimates for the cost of buildings and contents reinstatement. In 
February 2020, he sent these to SoL. Based on these estimates, he now considered his 
buildings repair claim should be settled for £78,220, excluding VAT. He said SoL had made 
mistakes in its assessment of the evidence of his contents claim which meant it had no 
grounds for reducing this. Notwithstanding this, he considered that based on the new 
estimate, his contents claim should be settled for £28,414, excluding VAT. He maintained 
that he should be entitled to £72,975 for loss of rent and that his additional costs should be 
paid because these were eligible under the policy, had already been incurred, and were not 
duplicated elsewhere as suggested by SoL.
SoL responded later in February 2020. It noted the new buildings repair estimate which Mr A 
had provided and acknowledged that this gave a detailed breakdown of the cost. However, it 
maintained that this still included work which wasnt covered under the policy. It said the new 
estimate for contents reinstatement still didnt show that this was a like for like replacement 
of the damaged items. It therefore maintained its settlement offer was fair but suggested that 
if Mr A was unhappy with this, a site meeting should take place between its surveyor and 
Mr As contractor to agree in detail the scope of works required as a result of the fire and the 
necessary cost of this. It said the additional costs claimed by Mr A could also be discussed if 
the suggested site meeting were to take place.
Mr A was still unhappy at SoLs offer. He complained to it. He also obtained further quotes 
for the cost of reinstating the building and its contents.
In April 2020, SoL issued a final response letter. It considered the cash settlement it had 
offered to Mr A was fair. It said that if Mr A was unhappy with this, it was up to him to move 
things forward by agreeing to the site visit as it had suggested. It acknowledged there was a 
slight delay before it contacted Mr A following the ombudsmans earlier decision for which it 
offered £75 compensation.
Mr A was unhappy with SoLs response. He referred Ps complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
 The ombudsman said in his decision of September 2019 that SoL should settle the claim. 
However, he said this settlement was subject to the necessary validation of the claim and 
the terms of the policy. It is normal for an insurer to seek to ensure that the work and items 
being claimed for are attributable to the insured event, in this case the fire, and are 
reasonable in cost.
Mr A has provided a number of different estimates for the reinstatement of the buildings and 
replacement of contents. However, SoL is not satisfied that all the things for which he is 
claiming are eligible under the terms of the policy because they do not represent the loss 
caused by the fire. I can see that some of the quotes provided by Mr A lacked a detailed 
breakdown and some contained work which was not contained on other quotes. Mr A has 
asked me to comment on specific items within his claim and also to say how much I consider 
the overall settlement should be. However, we are not claim handlers at this service and I 
dont consider it would be appropriate for me to get into some of the fine detail of an 
extensive claim.
Suffice to say that, in respect of the buildings claim, I consider SoL has raised reasonable 
concerns about some of the items for which Mr A is claiming such as new drainage systems, 
repairs to a storage shed and new gates. SoL suggested a site meeting to resolve matters 
and I consider this was a reasonable proposal. I note that it has since suggested the 
appointment of an independent surveyor to prepare a schedule of works to assist in the 
resolution of the claim. I consider this would be a sensible way forward but it is up to Mr A to 
give his agreement. However, as things stand I consider that SoLs settlement offer for the 
reinstatement of buildings is fair.
In respect of the contents claim, Mr A has again provided a number of estimates for 
replacing the damaged contents. However, SoL has expressed concern that Mr A has not 
shown these are like for like replacements of the items damaged in the fire and has also 
pointed out that there have been significant variations in the quoted cost of replacing certain 
items. As things stand, I consider that SoLs settlement offer for the replacement of damaged 
contents is fair.
With regard to the loss of rent claim, the policy schedule shows that P has cover for this of 
up to £33,360 over a period of up to 24 months. P has already received £1,390 of this. 
Therefore, the remaining amount payable under the terms of the policy is £31,970, which is 
what SoL has offered. Mr A has referred to a particular clause in the policy which mentions 
payment of rent for up to 36 months. However, as SoL has pointed out, this is under the 
heading of Failure of third party insurances and is intended to provide cover where cover 
has been inadvertently omitted by the freeholder or leaseholder. Im satisfied this does not 
apply in the circumstances of Ps claim. Mr A has also drawn attention to a late payment 
penalty clause in the lease agreement between P and Mr As wife. However, I consider this 
is an issue between those two parties; it doesnt have any relevance to SoLs obligations. 
Nonetheless, the ombudsmans decision on the earlier complaint concluded that, despite its 
concerns over the misrepresentation and possible fraud, SoL should not have declined the 
claim. And it seems to me that if SoL hadnt incorrectly declined the claim, P could have 
received a settlement offer sooner and so wouldnt necessarily have had to endure loss of 
rent for over two years. I therefore consider that the fair outcome would be for SoL to extend 
its offer for loss of rent to cover the period from the fire until the end of April 2020. The 
reason I have said payment should be until this date is because I consider SoLs settlement 
offer of January 2020 was fair on the basis of the information available to it and Im satisfied 
that if P had accepted that offer it could have carried out the necessary repairs to re-let the 
property by the end of April 2020. I therefore consider that any continued loss of rent beyond 
that date is down to Ps actions rather than any failing on the part of SoL.In respect of the additional costs for which Mr A has claimed, I consider that if these are 
eligible they would fall under the claim for buildings reinstatement. I therefore consider it is 
reasonable for SoL to say there is possible duplication of costs. I have already explained 
how I consider the claim for buildings reinstatement can best be moved forwards and the 
additional costs which Mr A is claiming can be considered during this process.
Mr A has asked that I award interest at the annual simple rate of 8% to the eventual 
settlement. SoL has already agreed to add interest to its settlement offer. Given that I have 
concluded its settlement offer is fair based on the information currently available, I dont 
consider I can reasonably make a formal award that it should add interest to the eventual 
settlement because I dont know when that settlement will be agreed and it is possible that 
any delay hereafter is purely down to Mr A.
There was a period of just over a month between SoL being informed that P had accepted 
the ombudsmans earlier decision and it contacting P/Mr A about his claim. I recognise that 
SoL needed to draw up the validation questions it needed to ask of P but I nonetheless think 
it could have done this quicker. SoL has accepted there was a slight delay and has offered 
£75 compensation. I consider this is fair.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr A accepted my decision in respect of his claim for loss of rent. However, he made 
comments in respect of other matters which I summarise as follows:
His buildings claim had been based on the average of two quotes he had obtained. After 
reviewing these quotes, and having made deductions from each quote for the items 
which SoL said were not covered under the policy, the lower quote now stood at £64,539 
(excluding VAT). This was therefore a fair and reasonable amount which should be paid 
in settlement of the buildings claim.
The claimed amount of £28,414 (excluding VAT) was a fair settlement of his contents 
claim as this was based on the lowest quote he had obtained and it was on a like-for-like 
basis.
The cost of reconnecting gas and electricity supplies were eligible for cover under the 
policy and were not duplicated elsewhere in the claim. SoL should therefore cover these 
costs.
Even if I were not to accept his points above, he would nonetheless accept my 
provisional decision and would therefore like me to make a formal monetary award 
including interest at the annual simple rate of 8%. 
SoL offered no further comment.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he has reduced his buildings claim by removing items which SoL said were not 
covered under the policy, namely drainage system repairs, a storage shed and new gates. 
However, while these were given in my provisional decision as examples of items over which 
SoL had raised reasonable concerns, I didnt say they were the only such concerns. The fact 
that Mr A has removed these items from his claim doesnt therefore cause me to conclude 
that his claim must now be reasonable. I remain of the view that SoLs offer of £45,000 (inclusive of VAT) in settlement of the buildings claim is fair and if Mr A is unhappy at this he 
should agree to the appointment of an independent surveyor to help resolve the dispute.
Mr A again said that he considers his contents claim to be reasonable and to be based on a 
like-for-like replacement with an equivalent quality oven to replace his damaged oven which 
is no longer available for sale. However, he has still not satisfactorily addressed SoLs 
concerns about the variation in cost between an earlier quote and the later quotes on which 
he chose to base his claim. In view of this, I still consider SoLs offer of £23,370 (inclusive of 
VAT) in settlement of the contents claim is fair. 
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision that the settlement for loss of rent 
should be increased to cover the extended period from the fire to the end of April 2020.
Mr A considered that he should be able to claim additionally for the cost of reconnecting gas 
and electricity supplies. However, SoL said that these costs fell under the buildings claim. 
I would normally expect such costs to be included in the buildings claim and I have already 
said that I consider SoLs settlement offer in respect of the buildings claim to be fair. 
I therefore dont consider that SoL is required to meet the additional costs claimed by Mr A.
Mr A said that even if I were not to accept the points he made above, he would nonetheless 
accept my decision and he therefore would like me to formalise this in my final decision as a 
monetary award with added interest. In other words, Mr A doesnt want to contest further the 
buildings and contents settlement proposed by SoL in January 2020. I see no reason not to 
comply with Mr As request. However, I consider that the elements of the claim can 
reasonably be divided up rather than treated as a single package. This means that in respect 
of the buildings and contents claim, I consider the interest should be payable from the date 
of loss until the date SoL made its reasonable offer in January 2020. In the case of the loss 
of rent, I consider the interest should be payable from the date each rent payment should 
have been received to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint in part.
I require Society of Lloyd's to do the following:
pay P £44,700 (£45,000 minus the £300 policy excess) in settlement of its buildings 
claim and £23,370 in settlement of its contents claim;
add interest to the above sums at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from 
9 January 2017 (the date of the fire) to 15 January 2020 (the date it made its settlement 
offer)*;
pay P benefit for loss of rent (less any such benefit it has already paid) at the rate of 
£1,390 a month to cover the period from 9 January 2017 until 30 April 2020;
add interest to the above payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the 
date each benefit payment should have been paid (26th of each month according to the 
lease agreement) to the date of settlement*; and
if it has not already done so, pay P £75 in compensation for its delay in getting in touch 
following Ps acceptance of the ombudsmans earlier decision.* If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell P how much its taken off. It should also give P a certificate showing 
this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
P to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman