DRN-2692071
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the service provided by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax when 
he tried to make a payment on his outstanding credit card balance and their actions 
afterwards; including reducing his credit limit and not issuing new credit and debit cards. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr O called Halifax to make a payment over the phone towards his credit card 
balance. Mr O has said normally hed do this in branch, but chose to do it over the phone 
because of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent branch closures. Mr O says he was 
transferred between a number of different Halifax advisers and eventually was unable to 
make payment as he was unable to pass Halifaxs security checks. 
 
Mr O complained to Halifax about this. They apologised, offered him £50 for the customer 
service received, said that theyd order replacement debit and credit cards, made a system 
adjustment so the account wasnt showing as in arrears and sent a notice to the 
Credit Reference Agencies to remove any late payment markers on the file from March until 
May 2020.  
 
Halifax later decided not to issue replacement cards and reduced Mr Os credit limit. Mr O 
was unhappy and referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
 
Our investigator considered the evidence but didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. She found that the £50 compensation Halifax had offered was fair. Mr O didnt 
accept our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence. 
 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.  
 
When reaching my decision, the main finding I need to make is
have Halifax treated Mr O fairly, reasonably and in line with the account terms when 
taking the actions theyve taken here? 
 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr O that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
 
The customer service received  
 
Mr O has told us that normally hed make payment in branch and Halifax have confirmed 
that around that time (May 2020) some of their branches may have been temporarily closed 
because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
Ive seen a copy of some of Halifaxs contact records and it shows that on 1 May 
2020 they sent Mr O a text message to remind him that a payment was due on his credit 
card balance. Another reminder was sent around a week later to let Mr O know that payment 
was now overdue. Letters were also sent on 15 May 2020 and 3 June 2020. So I think 
Halifax have acted positively in trying to help and remind Mr O that he needed to make 
payment and then again when payment was overdue. 
 
The next record of contact Ive seen after this was when Mr O rang Halifax to try and make 
payment - a number of weeks after Halifax had contacted him to let him know his payment 
was overdue.  
 
Unfortunately Mr O was unable to pass the security checks and couldnt make 
payment during this call. I dont find that by failing to pass the security checks Mr O has been 
treated unfairly or unreasonably as Halifax will have its own security checks in place to 
protect customers and help ensure theyre speaking to the right person. Mr O also had other 
options for making payment - even with some branches being closed and I note hes told us 
he did eventually make payment in an open branch.  
 
It was during this June phone call that Mr O experienced the customer service issues (being 
passed to a number of different Halifax advisers) for which Halifax later apologised and 
offered him £50 for any inconvenience. I consider the £50 offered fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the issues Mr O experienced and their impact. 
 
Halifax also made a system amendment so Mr Os account wouldnt show as in 
arrears, made him aware that his next payment was due on 9 July 2020 and sent an 
instruction to the Credit Reference Agencies to remove any late payment makers that had 
been applied to his file from March-May 2020. 
Overall I consider these actions positive by Halifax as it fairly considered the impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the disruption it may have caused Mr O when trying to make 
payment.  
 
The request for a new debit card 
 
Another part of the resolution offered by Halifax was a request raised for a new debit 
card. The request was raised, but declined by the relevant internal department. This will 
have been frustrating for Mr O after being told something else by Halifax.  
 
Halifax say the debit card wasnt issued because Mr O hadnt used that account since May 
2018. Each bank will have its own criteria for the accounts and cards it offers customers and 
thats not something Id seek to interfere with. I note that the current account remains open 
with a small balance. 
I dont find that Halifax have treated Mr O unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to 
not issue the new debit card.  
 
The credit card account 
 Halifax explained in a letter to Mr O dated 12 June 2020 they were reducing his credit limit 
as he hadnt made his last minimum payment on time. Ive questioned this with 
Halifax as theyd said in their final response letter:  
 
I have completed a system adjustment so your account is not within our Collections 
Department, as I know you have tried to make payments and branch closures have 
impacted you. This means your account is no longer in arrears... 
 
Halifax have said that the missed payment possibly triggered a review of the relevant 
internal and external financial information related to Mr Os account. Mr O was late making a 
payment and, although Halifax were sympathetic given the COVID-19 pandemic, under the 
terms of the account they do have the right to raise or lower a customers credit limit.  
Mr O also wanted a replacement credit card. Halifax say they couldnt issue it at that 
time because of their internal lending rules. Each bank is entitled to make a 
commercial, risk-based decision about lending - including when decreasing credit limits and 
issuing credit cards.  
 
Although understandably frustrating for Mr O, I dont find that Halifax have treated Mr O 
unfairly when deciding to lower his credit limit or by not issuing a replacement credit card. 
 
Summary  
 
I dont uphold this complaint. I find that Halifax treated Mr O fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the account terms. I also find the £50 offered for the customer services issues is 
proportionate to the impact on Mr O.  
 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Halifax  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman