DRN-4084624
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the settlement British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) offered after its 
engineer caused damage to his home while repairing a leak.
Mr S had home emergency cover underwritten by BG. Mrs S acted on his behalf but, for 
ease of reading and because the policy was in his name, Ill refer only to Mr S.
What happened
Both Mr S and BG agree that damage was caused when one of BGs engineers attended to 
a leak. As the facts are not in dispute, I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint because I consider BGs offer 
to put matters right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive looked at everything on the file relating to his 
complaint about BG. While I may not mention everything, Ive taken all relevant information 
into consideration.
After carrying out an investigation into his complaint, BG agreed it hadnt provided the 
standard of service Mr S could reasonably expect. To put matters right, BG offered to:
pay £500 for the redecoration of the water damaged ceiling; 
pay £250 compensation by way of apology for the inconvenience caused, and
assess the carpet damage with a view to either cleaning or replacing it.
Mr S didnt think BGs offer was enough because:
The quote hed obtained for redecoration came to more than BGs offer.
BGs representative had already contacted him about assessing his carpet and said 
there was no point visiting because the type of carpet he had couldnt be cleaned.
Mr S didnt cash the compensation cheque because BGs offer didnt resolve his 
complaint.
Redecoration
Ive considered Mr Ss quote for redecorating. Having done so, my view is that it includes 
items which BG didnt damage. Mr S hasnt disagreed with this, but he says unless 
everything on the quote is completed, the decoration of his home would look odd. The 
photos of Mr Ss home show that the walls, ceiling, coving and woodwork are a uniform 
colour, so I understand the point hes making. However, BG is responsible only for putting 
right the damage it caused. Therefore, I cant agree that it would be fair to ask BG to include 
all other items, such as sanding, filling and repainting woodwork, which it hasnt damaged.
It's understandable that Mr S would want to refresh the whole area while work is already 
being carried out, but nothing in the evidence persuades me that BG should contribute any 
more to the cost than it already has.
Im satisfied that BG made a fair offer in respect of this issue.
Carpet
BG wants to assess the carpet before agreeing on corrective action. Mr S says it has already 
had the opportunity and its representative said the carpet cant be cleaned.
Looking at Mr Ss account of events, he says BG declined to visit after hearing of the type of 
carpet he had. Thats because the carpet fibre isnt one which can be cleaned without 
causing further damage. Although BGs account notes dont reflect this conversation, I have 
no reason to doubt what Mr S says.
However, although this has become a sticking point, I dont think its unreasonable for BG to 
arrange an actual visit for assessment of the carpet. Once done, Id expect BG to be in a 
position to move forward with either cleaning the carpet or, as Mr S suspects will be the 
case, replacing it. 
The evidence doesnt indicate that BG has refused to replace the carpet  just that it wants 
to see the damage for itself and confirm whether a replacement is needed. I dont think thats 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Compensation
BG sent Mr S a cheque for £250 in recognition of the fact that its agent caused the damage 
and the inconvenience this matter caused. Mr S didnt think BG had done enough to resolve 
his complaint.
Theres no dispute that BG caused the damage and I think its fair that BG should put 
matters right. I understand there was some disagreement about the damage in the earlier 
stages, and I can see from the evidence that Mr S has been inconvenienced by the whole 
matter. But, when thinking about what I wouldve required had BG not already made an offer, 
Ive decided that BGs offer is reasonable and in line with our approach. Therefore, I wont be 
asking it to increase its compensation offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here, Im satisfied that British Gas Insurance Limiteds offer to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint was fair and reasonable, so I see no reason to ask it to do any 
more. 
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman