DRN-3159982
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service that he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding his 
attempt to apply for a second payment holiday, including that HSBCs online process 
wouldnt allow him to input an overseas telephone number.
What happened
Mr A had a HSBC loan and had successfully applied for a three-month payment holiday. 
When the payment holiday was coming to an end, Mr A wanted to apply for a further three-
month payment holiday and was directed to HSBCs online platform to do so. However, Mr A 
couldnt apply for the second payment holiday online because HSBCs platform wouldnt 
accept an overseas telephone number, requiring instead a UK telephone number for the 
application to proceed. This was problematic for Mr A because he resides overseas and 
doesnt have a UK telephone number. So, Mr A raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr As complaint. They explained to Mr A that to progress his payment 
holiday application an income and expenditure assessment would need to be completed. 
HSBC apologised to Mr A that he hadnt been able to complete this assessment online, and 
they to call Mr A to complete the income and expenditure assessment over the telephone. 
Finally, HSBC made a payment of £75 to Mr A to compensate him for the trouble and upset 
the matter had caused.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, especially as HSBC didnt make sufficient 
efforts to contact him as theyd promised, meaning that he had to call HSBC back himself 
and spend time re-explaining what had happened. Because of this, HSBC made a further 
payment of £50 to compensate him for the poor standard of service that hed received. 
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the responses that HSBC had issued 
in regard to this complaint, including the payments of compensation to Mr A, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr A didnt agree with the view put forwards by our adjudicator, so the matter was escalated 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr A to have not been able to apply 
for a further three-month payment holiday on his loan because HSBCs online platform 
wouldnt allow the application to progress without his inputting a UK telephone number, 
which as an overseas resident he doesnt possess.
What this service would expect would be that, following Mr A bringing the matter to their 
attention, HSBC would have taken the corrective action necessary so that Mr A could apply 
for the second payment-holiday and that they would have backdated that payment holiday to 
when Mr A should have been able to fist apply for it. It would also be expected by this 
service that HSBC would apologise to Mr A for trouble hed experienced and make a fair 
payment of compensation to him for the inconvenience and upset that hed incurred.
HSBC appear to have done that here - although I do acknowledge that it took some time the 
corrective action to complete such that Mr A was able to apply successfully for a second 
payment holiday, which was then backdated so that it began when Mr As first three-month 
payment holiday finished. HSBC also made amendments to Mr As credit file to ensure that it 
reflected that Mr A hadnt missed any required payments on the loan during the time that the 
payment holiday had been in place.
It's also evident from HSBCs initial response to Mr As complaint that they did accept that    
Mr A had experienced a degree of upset and inconvenience that he shouldnt have done, 
and they apologised to Mr A for this and made a payment of £75 compensation to him. 
Furthermore, when Mr A had further difficulties in speaking with HSBC and completing the 
income and expenditure assessment that was required, HSBC paid a further £50 
compensation to him for this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. However, 
the cumulative compensation payment of £125 that HSBC have already paid to Mr A here 
does feel fair to me, given the totality of the circumstances, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect.
Mr A has stated that he feels that HSBC discriminated against him because of his residing 
overseas. I can appreciate Mr As strength of feeling here, but on balance I dont feel that 
HSBCs online platform not accepting overseas telephone numbers was an act of 
discrimination against non-UK residents, but rather was a genuine oversight or mistake.
Finally, in his recent submissions to this service, Mr A has raised several further points about 
why he is dissatisfied with HSBC. Again, I can appreciate Mr As position here, but this 
service can only consider the complaint that is initially brought to us by the complainant, 
about which HSBC have already had the opportunity to respond. As such, if Mr A wishes to 
continue with the further matters hes recently brought to this services attention, I can only 
refer Mr A to HSBC themselves, with whom he must raise these complaints and allow them 
the opportunity to respond, before he can consider referring those complaints to this service. 
All of which means, that while I acknowledge that Mr A was inconvenienced by his not being 
able to progress his application for a second payment holiday online and the subsequent 
events that followed, I do feel that the HSBCs response to Mr As complaint about this, 
including the corrective action taken by HSBC and the payments of compensation that 
theyve made to Mr A, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken 
place. And it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman