DRN-2852201
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he was unable to take full advantage of a promotional offer made by
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AMEX).  
What happened
Mr C opened an AMEX account because he wanted to take advantage of a promotional offer
which would have entailed the crediting of 20,000 Nectar points to Mr Cs account had he
spent more than £2,000 using his AMEX card during the first three months of the account
being opened.
Mr C wasnt able to spend the required amount within the first three months to qualify for the
reward, and Mr C felt that the primary reason for this was because AMEX wasnt accepted
by a number of the merchants and retailers he made purchases from.
Mr C contacted AMEX to complain about this. But AMEX didnt recognise that Mr C was
making a complaint and so didnt initially respond to it as such. When AMEX did respond to
Mr Cs complaint, they didnt feel that they should be considered responsible for the
merchants that Mr C had made purchases from not accepting AMEX as a payment method.
However, they did acknowledge that they should have recognised that Mr C was making a
formal complaint when he first contacted them, and they credited Mr Cs account with 5000
Nectar points  equivalent to £25 - by way of compensation.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with AMEXs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that AMEX could
reasonably be consider responsible for Mr C not being able to make payment using his
AMEX card because of non-acceptance of the card by merchants. Our investigator also felt
that AMEXs acceptance that they should have acknowledged that Mr C was making a
formal complaint sooner, including the award of Nectar points as compensation, represented
a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Cs
complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, especially as he hadnt been consulted by AMEX as to whether
he would prefer an award of compensation as a cash amount rather than as Nectar points,
and also because he didnt feel that due account had been taken of the inconvenience he
had incurred. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 April 2021 as follows:
The primary focus of Mr Cs complaint here is that a lack of merchant acceptance 
meant that he wasnt able to spend the required amount using his AMEX card in 
order to qualify for the award of Nectar points offered by the promotion that had 
prompted him to open an AMEX account. Mr C feels that AMEX should have stated 
in their promotional literature that their card isnt as widely accepted as other 
providers, and that if they had he would have been prompted to research retailer 
acceptance of AMEX and would potentially have decided not to open an AMEX 
account.
Im not convinced that Mr Cs expectation here is a reasonable one, and I struggle to 
recall a comparable instance of a business being compelled to advise potential 
customers of the possible limitations of its product. Instead, I consider that the onus 
was on Mr C to ensure that the AMEX account he was opening was suitable for his 
needs, before he opened it. And I note that AMEX provide tools on their website to 
enable customers to do this, including providing an interactive map of merchants who 
accept AMEX.
Mr C was also unhappy that AMEX didnt recognise that he was making a complaint 
when he first contacted them about this issue. This was despite Mr C informing 
AMEX that he was considering referring his complaint to this service.
AMEX have acknowledged that they should have logged a formal complaint for Mr C 
in the first instance, and they credited Mr Cs account with 5000 Nectar points by way 
of compensation for this. While I commend AMEX for the spirit of the offer that they 
made here, Im not convinced that its appropriately reflective of what happened, or of 
the distress and inconvenience that Mr C incurred because of this. With regard 
AMEX making an award of Nectar points, rather than a cash sum, given that Mr C 
opened the AMEX account to try to obtain a promotional award of Nectar points, Im 
satisfied that this method of compensation by AMEX was reasonable in this particular 
instance.
Mr C has also expressed his dissatisfaction at how AMEX handled his complaint, 
once it had been registered as such. However, as our investigator correctly 
explained, the remit that this service has to operate within is strictly regulated, and 
complaints about how a business has handled a complaint falls outside of this remit. 
And this means that this is an aspect of Mr Ns complaint this service is unable to 
consider. Im aware that Mr C disagrees with this point, but the rules on this matter 
are clear, and I would refer Mr C to the DISP (Dispute) sourcebook in the Financial 
Conduct Authority handbook for confirmation of this.
Finally, Mr C is unhappy about the service he received in relation to a residual 
balance on his AMEX account and the amount of time that he had to take to resolve 
this issue. While Im pleased that the matter was successfully resolved I can 
understand how this might have been frustrating for Mr C and how it might have 
contributed to the ongoing distress he experienced with regard his interaction with 
AMEX.
Ultimately, considering everything I have explained here, Im not satisfied that the 
award of 5000 Nectar points as compensation to Mr C by AMEX takes fair account of 
what happened in this instance, with regard both to Mr Cs complaint not being 
recorded as such when it first should have been, and to the ongoing frustration that 
Mr C incurred when trying to resolve the issue of the residual balance.
For these reasons my provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr 
Cs favour and that AMEX should make a cash payment of £50 to Mr C to further 
compensate him the distress and inconvenience he has incurred. In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr C and AMEX the opportunity to provide any 
comments or additional information they might want me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr C confirmed that he had nothing further to add. However, AMEX did provide 
some additional information relating to the time taken to reimburse the residual balance to 
Mr C as mentioned above.
The further information that AMEX provided demonstrated that they did reimburse the 
residual balance to Mr C in a timely manner. And having reviewed this information Im 
satisfied that this was the case. AMEX therefore felt that I should reconsider the £50 offer of 
compensation payable to Mr C as referenced in my provisional decision and reiterated that 
they felt that the award of nectar points that theyve already made to Mr C represents fair 
compensation for their late acknowledgement of Mr Cs complaint. 
I can understand AMEXs point here  to a degree. But even acknowledging that AMEX did 
indeed reimburse the residual balance to Mr C in a timely manner, it remains my position 
that Amex should make a £50 payment to Mr C in light of the late recognition of his 
complaint. And I refer Amex to my provisional decision, which states:
AMEX have acknowledged that they should have logged a formal complaint for Mr C 
in the first instance, and they credited Mr Cs account with 5000 Nectar points by way 
of compensation for this. While I commend AMEX for the spirit of the offer that they 
made here, Im not convinced that its appropriately reflective of what happened, or of 
the distress and inconvenience that Mr C incurred because of this.
It follows from this that my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Cs favour 
on the basis that AMEX didnt recognise and acknowledge his complaint when they first 
should have done, and that I will be instructing AMEX to make a payment of £50 to Mr C to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset that he incurred because of this.
 
Putting things right
AMEX must make a payment of £50 to Mr C to compensate him for the upset and 
inconvenience he incurred as a result of AMEX not recognising and acknowledging his 
complaint when they first should have done.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman