The complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out the PPI in 1996 at the same time as applying for the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any documentation from the sale. This is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to decide. Therefore, in 
reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
HSBC cant confirm how the credit card and PPI were taken out, although Mr R believes he 
spoke to HSBC over the phone. If Mr R did contact HSBC by phone to apply for a credit 
card, he would have been sent an application form to complete. 
Mr R says he wasnt aware that he had PPI  meaning that HSBC added it without his 
knowledge or consent. From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at the time, the PPI 
would normally have been presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr R has provided his honest recollection of events. But the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory of events has faded. Overall, I 
think that Mr R would probably have known that he had a choice about taking out the PPI. 
On balance, it seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if 
he no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know whether or not HSBC advised Mr R to take out the policy. If it did then, in 
recommending it to him, it needed to ensure that the policy met his needs. And from what I 
know of Mr Rs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
DRN-1372222Theres been some confusion about what job Mr R had at the time. Our adjudicator has 
assessed the complaint based on what Mr R originally told HSBC about who his employer 
was at the time (even though hed told us that he was working for someone else). Its true 
that Mr R did originally name a different employer when he filled out a questionnaire for 
HSBC. But thats when he thought the sale had happened later, and so he provided his 
employment details for 1999 rather than 1996. So Im satisfied that Mr R was working for a 
different employer than the one our adjudicator mentioned. However, ultimately this doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome.
Mr R has told us that he would have received statutory sick pay, although he did originally 
tell us that he would have received three months full pay, followed by three months half 
pay. Regardless of whatever sick pay Mr R might have been entitled to, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr R would have received full 
pay for. Mr R has said he had about £2,000 in savings. But having the PPI would have 
allowed him to retain any savings or use these to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. Overall, the policy could have provided a useful benefit to Mr R if he 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
HSBC needed to provide Mr R with enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him. I think that Mr R would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover his repayments if he was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy 
it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr R had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But HSBC 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R  because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr R about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to  Mr R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman