DRN-3582455
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Vitality Health Limited mis-sold her a personal private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 8 November 2021, Mrs P took out a personal private medical insurance policy. The 
policy included a number of benefits  one of which was a discount of 75% on hotel resort 
stays for adults. The policy began on 30 November 2021.
Mrs P tried to book a discounted hotel stay at a particular resort and she planned to take 
along her child. However, she learned that the resort she wanted to stay at wasnt part of 
Vitalitys discount scheme. And that the 75% discount benefit didnt apply to children. So she 
complained to Vitality, as she said shed been told that children would benefit from the 75% 
discount at the resort shed wished to book. She felt the policy had been mis-sold.
Initially, Vitality acknowledged that after the policy had been set-up, Mrs Ps husband had 
called in and had wrongly been told that children could be taken to some of the hotel resorts. 
At that point, one of Vitalitys complaints team told Mrs P that Vitality could offer her a 
discounted stay at the resort of her choice. However, Vitality looked into Mrs Ps concerns 
further. It told her that it wasnt able to honour the offer of a discounted hotel stay to resolve 
the complaint. And it accepted that Mrs P hadnt received promised call backs from its 
complaints team. Taking into account the mistakes it had made, Vitality offered to send Mrs 
P a hamper to recognise its poor service and gave her an apology.
Mrs P was unhappy with Vitalitys response and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Vitality had made a fair offer to settle Mrs Ps complaint. He noted 
that Vitalitys website made it clear that the 75% hotel discount benefit only applied to adults. 
He agreed that Vitality had provided misinformation about the discount. But this 
misinformation had been given after the policy had already been taken out. So he didnt think 
the misinformation had affected Mrs Ps decision to take out the insurance. He 
acknowledged Mrs Ps argument that the misinformation had been given during the policy 
cooling-off period. But he felt that given Mrs P had complained about the misinformation 
during the cooling-off period, if shed wanted to cancel the policy as a result of it, she 
couldve done so. And he didnt think he could tell Vitality to honour its offer of a one-off 
discounted stay.  
Mrs P disagreed. She maintained that the discounted hotel rate had been a major selling 
point of the policy. The information set out on the website conflicted with what shed been 
told about how the discount worked. She thought it was shameful that Vitality had been able 
to withdraw its offer and that this at least should stand. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P, I dont think Vitality mis-sold this policy 
and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Mrs Ps husband dealt with most of the discussions surrounding the 
sale of the policy. Vitality needed to ensure it provided Mrs P and her husband with enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the insurance contract to allow them to 
decide whether or not to take out the policy.
Like the investigator, Ive looked closely at Vitalitys website. Im satisfied that the 75% hotel 
discount benefit only applies to adults. And the website also makes it clear that the resort 
Mrs P wished to use wasnt part of the discounted scheme. Vitality says this information is 
also set out in its Memberzone terms and conditions. 
But Vitality acknowledges that one of its call handlers wrongly told Mrs Ps husband that 
some of the hotel resorts did allow children to make use of the discounted rate. So Ive 
carefully considered whether I think its more likely than not that this misinformation caused 
Mrs P to take out the policy when she wouldnt otherwise have done so.
Ive listened carefully to the sales calls which took place between Mrs Ps husband and 
Vitality, ahead of Mrs Ps agreement to take out her policy on 8 November 2021. Whilst 
some policyholder discounts were discussed  such as gym membership and coffee 
discounts  the 75% hotel discounts werent discussed. It seems to me that obtaining the 
best price was the most important factor for Mrs P and her husband. So I dont think I could 
fairly find that the availability of this benefit was of particular importance to Mrs P or that she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy if shed known her child wouldnt be able to make use of 
it.
Mrs Ps policy began on 30 November 2021 and I accept that her husband was given the 
wrong information by Vitality about the hotel discount benefit on this date. So the 
misinformation was clearly given within the 14-day cooling-off period during which Mrs P 
couldve cancelled the policy and obtained a full refund of premium. The cooling-off period 
ended on 14 December 2021. But as our investigator explained, Mrs P learned that her 
husband had been misinformed about the discount benefit shortly after the policy began and 
complained to Vitality about this issue on 8 December 2021. This was well within the 
cooling-off period. 
As such, if the decision to take out cover had been dependent on Mrs Ps child being entitled 
to benefit from the hotel discount, then Id have reasonably expected Mrs P to cancel her 
policy when she learned that this wasnt the case and by 14 December 2021. However, it 
doesnt appear that Mrs P cancelled her policy even after finding out that the hotel discount 
benefit didnt apply to children or a particular resort. So I dont think I can fairly find that the 
misinformation her husband was given prejudiced Mrs Ps position or prevented her from 
cancelling the policy within the cooling-off period.
Nonetheless, its clear that errors were made in the way Vitality responded to Mrs Ps 
concerns. It didnt call her back when it said it would and it compounded her dissatisfaction 
when one of its complaints team offered a discounted hotel stay which couldnt be provided 
or honoured. I dont doubt that this caused Mrs P additional frustration and inconvenience. 
So I think its appropriate for Vitality to acknowledge and apologise for its errors.It's important I make clear that Vitalitys original offer of a discounted hotel stay didnt form a 
binding contract with Mrs P, and it wasnt obliged to honour this. While I understand it 
mustve been upsetting for Mrs P when she learned that such an offer was no longer 
available to her, it seems to me that this was a loss of her expectation. And I think, in the 
circumstances, Vitalitys apology for the errors it made, together with the offer of a hamper to 
reflect the trouble and upset it had caused her, was fair to reflect the total material 
inconvenience and distress I think she was caused.
If Mrs P would now like to accept Vitalitys offer of a hamper, its open to her to contact 
Vitality to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Vitality has already made a fair 
offer to settle this complaint. And Im not directing it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman