DRN-3967918
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of a claim made 
under her home emergency policy. 
Any references to British Gas include its agents.
 
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs L found a leak in her home which caused damage to the flooring and 
walls. She notified British Gas and they arranged for an engineer to attend and assess the 
damage. Mrs L said the engineer told her click valves had wrongly been used on the mains 
pressure pipe when the stopcock was repaired some six months before. 
As British Gas had repaired the stopcock it accepted responsibility for the damage. Mrs L 
says she asked if she could remove the damaged flooring but didnt receive a response. At 
the end of June, Mrs L complained about the lack of progress and communication in relation 
to her claim. Shortly after this complaint, British Gas arranged for the flooring to be removed 
and repairs, including drying the room, began. 
Over the next couple of months, Mrs L says there were a number of delays in progressing 
the repairs and she continued to be frustrated with the communication she had with       
British Gas. She said it was either poor or responses were delayed. She says there were 
miscommunications overpaying a contractor to carry out the repairs and the drying 
equipment being collected. The repair works were completed in September 2022. 
British Gas sent Mrs L £250 compensation in recognition of the issues experienced in having 
the repairs carried out. Mrs L was unsatisfied with the response to her complaint and 
referred her concerns to us.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She said the compensation paid 
by British Gas should be increased to £450, to fully recognise the impact its handling of the 
claim and repairs had on Mrs L. British Gas accepted the findings, but Mrs L didnt, so this 
matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to this claim isnt in dispute. The repair works have been completed and 
Mrs L has been compensated for the increasing cost to her electricity bill as a result of 
running the dehumidifiers to dry out the room. The only issue that needs to be decided is 
whether the compensation offered is a fair amount to reflect the frustration and 
inconvenience experienced. 
As our investigator reflected when setting out her conclusions, British Gas hasnt provided a 
timeline, so the only one we have to rely on is the one provided by Mrs L. This has been 
shared with British Gas, who havent disputed its contents. 
I can see Mrs L increasingly experienced frustration with the handling of the claim. She said 
there were weeks of inaction, poor communication, and the impact of this was that she and 
her family were unable to use the room where the leak occurred. She also says she lost use 
of another room in the house as she had to use it to store the furniture kept in the room 
where the leak occurred. 
Its clear from reviewing the information provided that Mrs L had to instigate contact with 
British Gas far more than I think is reasonable to progress the claim. Its also clear there 
were unavoidable delays in starting the repairs, as evidenced by Mrs Ls timeline. It also 
appears the repairs arranged by British Gas didnt take place in one go, with the 
tradesperson attending one day, being away for a few days before returning and announcing 
he couldnt complete the repairs. Given the time that had passed, I dont think it was 
unreasonable Mrs L took the step of asking British Gas is she could use her own contractor 
to complete the work. I note, based on the timeline provided, that Mrs L was able to arrange 
this and have the work completed within a few days. Based on this, it does seem there were 
avoidable delays in completing the repairs. 
Even though I accept Mrs Ls timeline and account of events, I agree with the conclusion set 
out by our investigator. I think the total of £450 compensation recommended is fair 
compensation for the delay in starting the repair works, poor communication and overall 
distress and inconvenience experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs 
L a total of £450 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman