DRN-4236629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W, along with Mr W and Miss W are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a 
claim they made under their travel insurance policy. In addition, they are unhappy with the 
level of service provided by AWP.
AWP appointed representatives to handle this claim on its behalf and accepts responsibility 
for the actions of its representative. When referring to AWP in my decision, Im also referring 
to its representatives.
In this decision Ive referred to Mr and Mrs W. But any references to Mr and Mrs W also refer 
to Mr and Miss W.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided cover for 
various pre-departure and post-departure risks. The policy was issued on 24 April 2022 and 
was to cover a trip being taken from 3 July 2022 to the 13 July 2022.
Mr and Mrs W have explained that on the weekend prior to them being due to go on holiday 
one of their party, Miss W, tested positive for Covid 19. So, they were no longer able to go 
on their family holiday. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs W said they contacted their tour operator to cancel the trip. And that 
they contacted the airport, and relevant airlines to let them know theyd no longer be flying. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs W said they contacted AWP to seek assistance  but AWP were 
closed over the weekend. And when they emailed AWP asking for contact this wasnt 
forthcoming.
Mr and Mrs W then made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs they lost due 
to not being able to take their holiday. AWP considered the claim and declined it. It said that 
whilst the policy did cover cancellation of a trip due to illness, Mr and Mrs W hadnt shown 
that Miss W was ill before they were due to depart on the trip. They said the only evidence of 
Miss W testing positive for Covid-19 was dated 5 July 2022, which was after the trip was due 
to start.
Mr and Mrs W didnt consider this to be fair. They said Miss W had tested positive for Covid-
19 before 3 July 2022, and that it wasnt until a few days later the NHS track and trace 
system send them confirmation of a positive result. Mr and Mrs W said they also had proof of 
contacting their tour operator explaining the situation. And that theyd contacted the airports 
too. 
AWP said to Mr and Mrs W that without any further evidence, confirming the positive test 
result before 3 July 2022 it wouldnt be able to settle the claim. It said it would reconsider the 
outcome of the claim if Mr and Mrs W were able to provide additional evidence of a positive 
test before the date of departure, or evidence of phoning the airline to discuss not being able 
to fly it would reconsider the matter.
In addition to the above, AWP acknowledged Mr and Mrs W experienced delays in the 
progress of their claim due to a high influx of claims, and it apologised for this.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy. So, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. They 
thought AWP should pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced due to delays in the progress of their claim. But the 
investigator thought AWP had acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms, when declining 
to settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
AWP accepted our investigators outcome. But Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They considered 
theyd evidenced the need to cancel the trip due to Miss W contracting Covid-19. And they 
highlighted their concern that they had tried to ask AWP for guidance before they were due 
to depart on their trip, but none was forthcoming. Mr and Mrs W also considered the £100 
compensation to be insufficient.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, and require AWP to pay £100 
compensation in total. I dont require it to do anything more.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W. I can see they feel strongly 
about the matter. But Ive explained the reasoning for my decision below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AWP 
acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws policy documents, to see what cover the policy provided. 
On doing so, I can see the policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip before leaving 
home, in certain circumstances. These circumstances include the serious illness of someone 
going on the trip, the need to attend jury service, or redundancy. 
It is the duty of the policyholder to prove they have a valid claim that falls under one of the 
listed reasons. If the policyholder doesnt prove a valid claim for one of these listed reasons, 
then the claim isnt covered, and the policy doesnt respond. 
AWP appears to have accepted that Covid-19 would be considered a serious illness, and 
therefore that cancellation of a trip due to contracting Covid-19 would be covered by the 
policy. So, I havent considered this further.
But it doesnt accept that Mr and Mrs W have proven the trip was cancelled because of a 
serious illness  Covid-19. 
So, Ive needed to decide whether AWP has acted fairly in saying it isnt settling the claim at 
this stage, because the above hasnt been proven.Having done so, Im satisfied AWP has acted fairly in this respect. Mr and Mrs W hasnt 
provided AWP with firm evidence showing that Miss W contracted Covid-19 before the trip, 
and therefore that was the reason it wasnt able to go ahead as planned.
The policy requires evidence in the way of a medical certificate, for cancellation claims 
where illness is involved. Mr and Mrs W havent provided that  and I can understand why 
that might not be possible in respect of Covid-19, in some instances. But Mr and Mrs W 
havent provided any other firm evidence that shows the illness before the trip started, and 
therefore that it was the reason for cancellation. I understand Mr and Mrs W have said that 
Miss W tested positive for Covid-19 in the days before the trip was due to begin. But the only 
positive test for Covid-19, confirmed by the NHS, has a test date of 5 July 2022. After the trip 
was due to begin. 
I havent seen any other firm evidence which shows a serious illness, such as a positive test 
result, prior to this. And Im aware that AWP has asked Mr and Mrs W for additional 
information to help support the claim  in the way of evidence of discussions with the airline 
in relation to Covid-19 prior to departure. I consider it fair that AWP has said it will reconsider 
the matter if Mr and Mrs W provide this information, given it may support the fact a member 
of the travelling party was sick with Coronavirus. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have provided other documents for AWP to consider  
such as evidence they cancelled the flight and accommodation with the tour operator. But I 
think AWP has acted fairly in noting this is evidence that trip was cancelled  not that a 
serious illness was the reason the trip couldnt go ahead. So, I dont think AWP has acted 
unfairly in declining the claim at this stage. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they did try to contact AWP prior to their scheduled departure to 
gain an understanding of what evidence they needed to prove their claim  but were 
unsuccessful. Based on my experience, it would be unusual for the claims line to be closed 
over the weekend. But, even if it was closed, I dont think this means the claim should be 
paid as a result. I say this because whether or not they spoke to AWP, Mr and Mrs W should 
reasonably have been aware that theyd need contemporaneous evidence, so from prior to 
their departure, to prove the reason for cancelling this trip  for example, evidence of a 
positive test taken prior to departure. And the policy documentation and claim form online 
does provide information on the need for a medical certificate. 
I do think however think Mr and Mrs W could have been provided with better customer 
service by AWP. Mr and Mrs W contacted AWP by email on 4 July 2022, about their need to 
claim. And they didnt get any form of response until 12 July 2022, after they chased the 
matter. 
In addition to the above. Mr and Mrs W raised their claim in July 2022 and didnt receive any 
form of response until October 2022. AWP has accepted there were delays. And I can see 
how this would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs W  they were 
awaiting a response on a significant financial loss they had incurred.
Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable resolution is to resolve the element of the 
complaint in relation to delays and customer service. And I agree with our investigator that 
£100 compensation in total is fair. Im satisfied this fairly reflects the upset and 
inconvenience awaiting an answer would have caused to Mr and Mrs W during this time. 
AWP has agreed to pay this  and it should now do so.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W dont consider £100 to be sufficient compensation. But Im 
satisfied it is. I have to bear in mind that the claim was ultimately fairly declined  so the compensation isnt in any way a payment to meet the claim, which would always have been 
declined at this stage, but is to acknowledge the trouble caused by delays experienced.
 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require AWP 
P&C SA to pay £100 compensation in total. I dont require it to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, Miss W, Mrs 
W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman