DRN-1666863
 
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) settled a claim on a fault basis after the 
named driver on his policy was involved in an accident.
What happened
The named driver on Mr Ws policy was involved in an accident with another vehicle (a lorry). 
The named driver explained she had reversed onto the road close to the kerb in a stationary 
position, much like a car would have parked. She was then waiting for a safe time to merge 
with the traffic. The lorry then joined the road the named driver was on and collided with her 
as it attempted to enter a premises off that road.   
Mr W feels the other driver should have been found at fault for the accident as his car was 
stationary in a safe position when the lorry collided with it. Mr W also says the lorry driver 
may not have been concentrating and was travelling above the speed limit.
Lloyds explained that based on the circumstance described the named driver had caused an 
obstruction to a correctly proceeding vehicle and the claim would be recorded as a fault 
claim. 
Mr W didnt accept the decision Lloyds had made. He thought the decision was incorrect and 
had been made too quickly. Lloyds had said the road the lorry had turned into had a blind 
bend when it didnt, and CCTV from the lorry had not been sought which may have given a 
better understanding of the accident.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lloyds was entitled to settle liability 
for the accident in the way it thought best, and he thought it had come to a fair decision. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and still feels the named driver wasnt at fault. So this 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an 
accident, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Lloyds has 
reached a reasonable decision.
Mr Ws policy, like all other car insurance policies, allows Lloyds to take over, defend or 
settle the claim. They say:
We can:
take over, conduct, defend or settle any claim; andtake proceedings, (which we will pay for, and for our own benefit) to recover any 
payment we have made under this insurance.
We will take this action in your name or in the name of anyone else covered by this 
insurance. 
So, its entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thinks fit. And it has the ultimate and 
final say in how to settle a claim. But it must exercise this right fairly and reasonably.
Mr W has set out in detail why he thinks the other driver was at fault for the accident. As I 
said above, its not my role to say who was at fault for the accident, but I need to look at 
whether Lloyds has arrived at the conclusion it did fairly. And Im satisfied that it has. 
Although Lloyds said the road leading into the road the accident took place was on a blind 
bend, which I dont think it was, I can understand why it made this finding. Having listened to 
the initial calls between Mr W and Lloyds I can see he initially described the bend as a blind 
bend. 
Lloyds has also explained that the named driver on the policy had performed a manoeuvre 
that caused an obstruction to the third party that was proceeding in the correct direction 
down the road.
I appreciate Mr W has provided a fair amount of evidence by the way of photos and sketches 
of the accident scene, and says his car was situated in the same position that a parked car 
would be on the road.  He also says that the third party may not have been concentrating 
and was also in a rush. 
But Lloyds has explained that it considered its chances of being successful had the case 
gone to court and having done so found it was unlikely to succeed in Mr Ws favour. So, I 
dont think it acted unreasonably in accepting the claim as a fault claim.
I can see Mr W has concerns about Lloyds not requesting CCTV from the lorry, and it not 
doing a thorough investigation as he thinks the lorry was exceeding the speed limit. But the 
accident circumstances appear clear and I dont think CCTV evidence would necessarily 
have changed the outcome of the claim. It is also very difficult to prove the speed a vehicle 
was travelling at, and I dont think this would have been possible.
Mr W has also told us that he has spoken to several other third parties in senior roles that 
agree the lorry driver was at fault. But this does not change my decision as the evidence 
available suggests Lloyds acted reasonably in deciding the liability aspect of the claim.
I understand having a claim recorded as a fault claim will have further affects on both Mr W 
and the named driver. But as I think the claim has been recorded correctly, I cant ask Lloyds 
to change this.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman