DRN-2943636
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc have sent him a marketing email when he has opted
out of marketing and he has complained about how theyve handled his complaint.
What happened
Mr G opted out of marketing with Santander several years ago. He received an email from
Santander on 20 January 2021 which he believed to be a marketing email so he rang
Santander to complain about this. He also asked Santander to remove his email address
from the system completely so he couldnt receive any more similar emails to this.
Mr G says that Santander were reluctant to raise this issue and kept insisting that it was a
service email and not a marketing email. Mr G says that Santander resolved the matter too
quickly and his complaint was not investigated properly.
Santander did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said that the email he received was
regarding retailer offers that they currently have available. Santander also said that Mr G
was opted into retailer offers and therefore the email was not a marketing email and is a
servicing email which was also confirmed at the bottom of the email.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He
said that what was being promoted in the email is the Retailer Offer service which Mr G was
opted in to receive emails about. Our investigator said he had listened to the phone call that
Mr G had with Santander and he did not think that they gave him a poor service.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points but in
summary he said the email that Santander sent him could not possibly be a service email,
the call handler was unwilling to investigate whether it was a marketing email. He also said
that the only two options he had  and neither were a good option for him - was to remove
his email address from the Santander database completely which means he would miss
important emails or he wont get the retailer offers of which he had earned approximately
£100 using them. He also highlighted that a different financial institution was fined for
sending marketing emails to their customers and said this was the same situation as he
found himself in with Santander.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Mr G has raised a point during us looking into this complaint that
wasnt a part of the original complaint he brought to us. This regards a case of the
Information Commissioner fining a company for sending their customers marketing
information. Im unable to consider this point as this wasnt part of his complaint he made to
Santander. So Ill just be focusing on the original complaint he referred to us here.
Mr G has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered,
listened to and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair
and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr G that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Santander have investigated his
complaint dont come under my powers to consider. So Ill just be looking at the merits of his
complaint.
Ive looked at the content of the email that Santander sent to Mr G. Ive noted the strength of
feeling that he has that the email was a marketing email and not a servicing email. From the
information that Santander provided me, I can see that Mr G opted out of marketing emails
over five years ago. So Ive looked at the content of the email to see if Mr G should have
received this. Im persuaded he should have received this and Ill explain why.
The email starts as youve switched on your free Retailer Offers Se(rvices). So while Mr G
is opted out of direct marketing, Im persuaded that this email was sent because he was
enrolled for the free Retailer Offers service. Mr G has already acknowledged that he is
enrolled in this service as he has benefitted from over £100 cashback from this service since
he switched on the service.
So Ive then looked at the Retailer Offers terms and conditions to see what they say
regarding communication to Mr G. Section 3.1 of the Retailer Offers state: We will notify you
about your offers through different channels, such us: email, Online and Mobile Banking or
push notifications. So as Mr G will have needed to agree to the terms and conditions of the
Retailer Offers when he agreed to this service, Im satisfied that Santander make it clear that
its possible they will notify him about this via email.
I know Mr G believes the email he received is a direct sales marketing email as it
encourages him to take out a financial product. But Im satisfied from the information
available that it is only because of the free service that he has chosen to activate that he has
received the email which Santander describe in the email as a service message.
I say this as the email was related to the service which he has chosen to use and one of the
terms is that they will notify him about his offers. So this is what Santander have done here.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the Retailer Offers Service and it doesnt say that
he can opt out of these emails. But it does say he will be notified through emails (or through
other channels). Santander have confirmed to me that the only way to stop the Retailer
Offers servicing emails is to deactivate the Retailer Offers service. Ive noted that Santander
have said they have removed his email address from the system on Mr Gs request after he
complained to them, so this may be an alternative to not receiving the servicing emails but it
would also result in Mr G not receiving other important account information via this channel.
So for the reasons Ive already given I dont believe this email would be covered under his
direct marketing opt out as it relates to the Retailer Offers service and as such is classed as
a service email relating to the service Mr G chose to benefit from as opposed to being a
direct marketing email.
As I mentioned earlier, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Santander have investigated his
complaint dont come under my powers to consider. But I can consider the customer service
that Mr G received as part of his complaint. So I listened to the call that Mr G had with
Santander when he spoke to them about this issue. While there was a difference of opinions
regarding Mr G saying it was a marketing email and the call handler saying it was a servicingemail, Im persuaded that Mr G was treated fairly on the call. The call handler paid attention
to what Mr G was saying and tried to help him. And when she had system problems, she
explained this to Mr G and what would happen next.
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to see evidence that Santander have ignored
Mr Gs direct marketing opt out or gave him poor customer service when he spoke to them
about the issue. Im persuaded that the email Santander sent was in relation to the Retailer
Offers service he agreed to and not direct marketing and that Santander treated him fairly
with the customer service they provided him for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows
that I dont intend to ask Santander to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Santander said they had no further points to add. Mr G responded to my 
provisional decision and said he was unable to bring his point about the case of the
Information Commissioner fining a company for sending their customers marketing
Information as this hadnt happened at the time he made his complaint to Santander. Mr G 
said he will refer this to the Information Commissioners Office if this point isnt revisited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr G has said regarding the information from the Information 
Commissioner. I know he thinks the findings of the Information Commissioners rulings 
should be applied to his complaint with Santander. But I cant consider rulings against 
another company as part of Mr Gs complaint as I can only consider the merits of Mr Gs 
complaint which he has brought to us here. Mr G has mentioned that he may take his 
complaint to the Information Commissioners Office and he is entitled to do so.
In summary, Mr Gs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr G will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman