DRN-2981927
The complaint
Mr U complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr U was given a loan of £1,000 by Everyday Loans in July 2018. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of about £93. The total amount payable, including interest 
was just over £2,243. I understand the loan is outstanding.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr U with the loan and he asked Everyday Loans to put things right. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
U would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Ultimately, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
 Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr U 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr U.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr U would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Us complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Mr U for information about his income and expenditure and it also 
obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Mr U and took into account 
statistical information to help build a detailed picture of Mr Us financial situation. 
Everyday Loans calculated his monthly payments to outstanding creditors and allowed for 
Mr U spending £1,655.57 monthly on all his financial commitments and regular living 
expenses  which looked like it left him with disposable income of around £581 after taking 
into account his repayment on this loan. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mr U were, broadly speaking, reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
However, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans said the 3% minimum payment figure it used 
when thinking about Mr Us credit card balances was above the required minimum payment 
he had to make  and it included the repayments he would be making to another high cost 
lender on a loan he had taken out the month before (which he had yet to start paying). 
But I think its fair to say that making monthly repayments of only 3% of the outstanding 
balance on credit cards effectively serves mainly to extend the debt and it adds very 
significantly to the long term cost of that credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to 
make any meaningful inroads into card balances. So what Everyday Loans says about this 
doesnt affect my view overall. 
Everyday Loans gathered information that showed Mr U was already paying around 
£1097 towards his existing credit commitments. The additional loan monthly 
repayments on this loan would likely take his spending on credit each month up to around £1,190. Everyday Loans was aware that Mr Us take home pay was 
approximately £2,330. This meant that he would be spending around half of his 
income on servicing debt.
I think our investigator was right to point out that this was such a significant proportion 
of Mr Us monthly income it was a clear indication that Mr U was, in reality, already 
experiencing financial difficulty. I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been 
aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr U and more likely to 
potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
I think Everyday Loans ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr U would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan over the two year term. I accept that looking at just two months 
bank statements from around the time the loan was taken out isnt necessarily a fair 
representation of Mr Us financial commitments over the period of the loan. Nonetheless, 
I cant see anything on the bank statements that Everyday Loans acquired that wouldve 
provided any reassurance that the loan repayments he was signing up to make would be 
sustainably affordable. It already looked like he was struggling to keep his account in credit 
and incurring bank fees and excessively reliant on credit.  
I dont think that anything Mr U told Everyday Loans when he took out this loan was 
sufficient to explain or rebut what Everyday Loans saw from its own credit checks.
Overall, I think Everyday Loans ought fairly to have realised that Mr U was most likely going 
find it very difficult to manage his financial position and be unable to sustainably repay the 
loan over the extended loan term. I think, in these circumstances, Everyday Loans should 
reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr U.
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Us complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr U in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide the loan to Mr U. 
As Mr U has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr U has confirmed he has nothing further to add.
Everyday Loans hasnt responded and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr U for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr U to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid interest and charges on lending that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr U shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. 
If Everyday Loans isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Everyday Loans should: 
 Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr U made 
as payments towards the capital.
 If reworking Mr Us loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding balance remains, then Everyday Loans should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr U - bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Us credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Us complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman