DRN-2875575
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Capital One (Europe) plc reporting a default on his credit card account 
after he entered into a payment holiday.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and go 
back to around late 2019. 
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have to tell Mr S that I think the 
investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. 
Ill explain why.
Its important to point out that whether or not Capital One or another business chose to 
remove a default on Mr Ss partners account has no bearing on the complaint Im 
considering here. We consider each complaint on its own merits and each business can 
make customer specific decisions where appropriate and fair. 
Mr Ss arrears 
Capital One let Mr S know on 12 October 2019 that they were withdrawing his credit card 
facility and if there was a balance then payments needed to be made manually as any direct 
debit would also be cancelled. Capital Ones contact notes also suggest Mr S was again 
made aware of this at the end of December 2019.
A further reminder of the requirement to make payments towards any outstanding balance 
was included in a final response letter (for a complaint about fraudulent activity on the 
account  which doesnt form part of this complaint)) dated 19 December 2019. Although Mr 
S has told us I assumed the account was on hold as I assumed investigations was still 
going ahead and ..I assumed direct debit was set up, I find that Capital One did make it 
clear that he still needed to continue to make payments and wouldnt be able to do this by 
direct debit.
Its positive that Capital One offered Mr S opportunities such as contacting him on 
20 February 2020 to ask him to call and discuss an affordable payment plan to help get his 
account back on track. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr S engaged with Capital One on 
this. For example, he didnt return an income and expenditure form that would be part of the 
process to set up the repayment plan. 
Although Mr S says he was under the impression that a direct debit had been set up to help 
clear the arrears, Ive seen that Capital One continued to send him monthly statements. 
For example, Mr Ss monthly statements highlighted the arrears and a letter dated 19 March 
2020 let Mr S know he was four months behind on his account payments and encouraged 
him to contact Capital One to set up a repayment plan. And an email dated 29 April 2020 
stated:
This is your last chance to make a payment or agree an alternative payment solution 
before we send you an official notice that your account is about to default. If this 
happens your account will be closed and the default will stay on your credit file for six 
years, which could stop you getting credit in future (including loans and mortgages).
A payment of £73.55 is required on your account to get back up to date (which 
includes your missed payment(s) and any overlimit amount, which is due 
immediately).
Im satisfied that Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware that he was a number of 
months behind on his repayments and the direct debit hadnt been set up.
The payment holiday 
Based on what Ive seen, the arrears that ultimately lead to the default here pre-date the 
pandemic by a few months. Mr S had already missed five payments before the payment 
holiday was put in place. 
Mr S told Capital One in a phone call on 30 April 2020, where he requested the payment 
holiday, that hed been making up payments but because of COVID-19 thatd stopped. But 
Ive seen no evidence that he tried to make any payments from December 2019  May 2020. 
Although COVID-19 may well have impacted Mr Ss financial situation, I cant fairly say it 
was the cause of the arrears that lead to the default being reported.
I do find that Capital One shouldve made it much clearer during the phone call that the 
account could still default because there were a number of missed payments already. In an 
email sent to Mr S afterwards they stated:
We'll still send you important messages as legally required. This includes if you are 
at risk of being defaulted or permanently losing the use of your card. If you receive 
any of these, they still apply.
Capital One then emailed Mr S letting him know his 90-day payment holiday had been 
approved on 1 May 2020 after he told them hed been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Although a positive step by Capital One, the relevant Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance for firms at that time which covered this temporary support measure stated:
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably 
expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus. Where 
a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and 
guidance in CONC would continue to apply.I find that the adviser on the phone shouldve been clear with Mr S that a payment holiday 
wouldnt prevent the account defaulting, but that the information afterwards sufficiently put 
him on notice that the account was going to default.
The default 
Im satisfied that Mr S was made aware of the consequence of not clearing his arrears both 
prior to and after having a payment holiday approved. Even in a scenario where Mr S was 
under the impression that he could ignore the notice of default dated 4 May 2020 (because 
of the payment holiday), he still had a further three weeks to query this with Capital One by 1 
June 2020 - but he didnt. 
Ive also noted that even after receiving notification that the default had been added and that 
the payment holiday was ending in August 2020, it wasnt until around six months later  
(February 2021) that Mr S got in touch with Capital One. I find it reasonable to expect that 
had he genuinely been under the impression that the payment holiday meant the default 
wouldnt be recorded, hed have reasonably made an effort to update Capital One on his 
financial circumstances at the end of the payment holiday or make payment to help clear the 
arrears. 
Capital One have a duty to accurately report the status of Mr Ss account. The notice of 
default was sent to Mr S on 4 May 2020 and then the statement of default on 6 June 2020. I 
find that Capital One have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in trying to help him get his 
account back on track, making him aware of what the consequences could be of not doing 
so and ultimately recording the default on this account. I dont require them to remove the 
default.
Mr S has said his wifes account was also defaulted, but that Capital One removed it. He 
thinks hes been treated differently and this is unfair. My role here, however, is to decide this 
complaint on its own merits. And having done so, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
think Capital One has treated Mr S unfairly.
The customer service
I have explained above why I think Capital One managed the account as it should have, and 
reported the account as in default fairly. But I am of the opinion the customer service Mr S 
received shouldve been better. For example, Capital One ought to have recognised a 
COVID-19 related payment holiday wasnt suitable for Mr S given the account history. By 
agreeing to one, it caused unnecessary confusion. Capital One has apologised for this. 
Given Im not persuaded poor customer service had a material impact on Mr S or the 
ultimate recording of the fault, I find this to be a reasonable remedy.
Summary
I dont require Capital One to do anything more to resolve this complaint. I know Mr S will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with Capital One  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman