DRN-3040161
The complaint
Miss F complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) unfairly reported a default to her credit 
file.
What happened
 In August 2016, Miss F opened a credit card account with Aqua. The account fell into 
arrears in December 2017 and a couple of payments were missed. Miss Fs account had 
also exceeded its credit limit. She made a payment of £50 towards her account on 2 
February 2018. But despite this payment being made, the account was £24.44 over its limit. 
Miss F didnt make payments towards the account in March 2018 and April 2018.
On 13 April 2018, Miss F called Aqua and let it know that she had a reduction in income. 
She promised to make a payment of £146 to the account on 27 April 2018. Aqua issued a 
default notice on 26 April 2018 explaining that Miss F needed to pay £95.64 by 17 May 2018 
to prevent the account defaulting. Miss F didnt make the payment as she had promised to. 
So Aqua sent a reminder default notice on 17 May 2018, closed the account and explained it 
had been passed to a debt collection agency. Ill refer to the debt collection agency as P.
In June 2018, Miss F contacted Aqua and told it that she had agreed a payment plan with P 
to repay £50 a month. She told Aqua that P had said a default wouldnt be recorded on her 
credit file whilst she was making payments under the payment plan. She says Aqua told her 
she didnt need to make a payment until February 2019 and as long as she did this, her 
credit file wouldnt be affected. She says on this basis, she agreed to make reduced 
payments of £20 per month to P under a payment plan. In February 2019, the account was 
defaulted and sold to a company Ill call L.
In January 2020, Miss F complained that Aqua had recorded a default on her credit file, 
despite her having agreed a payment plan with P.
In March 2020, Aqua looked into the complaint and said it may have provided incorrect 
information about the payment plan preventing a default being reported. It offered to pay 
Miss F £25 to cover any trouble and upset caused. Unhappy with this, Miss F referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought the information 
provided by Aqua in June 2018 about the payment plan and the impact to the credit file 
could have been clearer. She said if it had been, Miss F could have explored other ways to 
pay her debt without her credit file being affected. Our investigator didnt think Aqua were 
entitled to default the account in February 2019 and asked it to remove the default and pay 
£50 for the trouble and upset caused.
Aqua disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent both parties my 
provisional decision on 1 July 2021. My findings from this decision were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether I think Aqua acted incorrectly or made any errors when it reported a 
default to Miss Fs credit file. On balance, I dont think it did. Ive explained why below.
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Fs agreement, Aqua explains that missing 
payments can have serious consequences - such as making credit more difficult to obtain. 
When a minimum monthly payment under a credit agreement is missed, the account falls 
into arrears. If payments are missed for at least three months, a lender considers the 
account to be in default and can register a default to a customers credit file.
All lenders have an obligation to notify credit reference agencies of accurate data on 
borrowers. The Information Commissioners (ICO) guidance is that a default can be 
registered after three missed payments and is expected after six missed payments. And 
even where payment plans are agreed, a customer is still considered to have broken the 
terms of their credit agreement and so be in default of their agreement.
In April 2018, given that Miss F had missed more than three monthly payments, she had 
only made one payment in six months and her account was over its limit between 
December 2017 and April 2018, I think Aqua could have defaulted her account at this point.
However, Miss F made a call to Aqua on 4 June 2018 to discuss her account. Ive thought 
about what Miss F told Aqua about the impact of a payment plan to her credit file during this 
call. Ive also considered Aquas response during this call and all the information it provided 
to Miss F, both in writing and on the phone.
During this call, Miss F called Aqua as she had received a letter from Aqua explaining her 
account was closed and it would be defaulted. She said P had told her she wouldnt receive 
a default to her credit file if she made payments under a payment plan. She explained that 
she didnt want her account to be defaulted. The advisor directed Miss F to P and told her 
the account was with them. The advisor said they couldnt confirm or deny whether a default 
would be registered to her credit file.
Aqua say they may have potentially provided incorrect information during this call. I think 
they did provide incorrect information when they told Miss F the account was with P and no 
longer with Aqua. P were collecting the debt on behalf of Aqua. But Aqua still owned the 
account and were still responsible for reporting information to Miss Fs credit file. However, 
whilst the advisor wasnt clear on this aspect, the advisor didnt give any indication that a
default wouldnt be registered.
As P is no longer trading, its unclear what information it told her about the default. Miss F 
hasnt provided evidence of confirmation of her payment plan with P. I appreciate this may 
be due to the length of time that has passed.
Having said this, Aqua have provided system notes which confirm that P told Aqua it had 
agreed a payment plan with Miss F of £50 per month on 28 June 2018. At this point, the 
account was in over its limit by £153.98. On 2 July 2018, Miss F made a £50 payment. She 
didnt make any further payments and so the payment plan was removed by P on
16 October 2018. Miss F made a payment of £15 on 7 January 2019 and a payment of £20 
on 21 February 2019.
Ive thought about what other information Aqua provided Miss F.
Ive seen copies of a number of missed payment letters and statements sent by Aqua to 
Miss F. The statements since December 2017 and February 2019 all confirm that Miss Fs 
account is over its limit. They all the state the following:You have failed to make a minimum payment. Failing to make your minimum payment can 
mean that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us taking 
legal action against you. It could lead to your having to pay additional costs and make it 
more difficult for you to obtain credit in the future.
And when Aqua sent Notices of Sums in Arrears statements, they enclosed an arrears 
information sheet issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This information sheet 
provides debt advice and states:
Doing nothing could make things worse. The lender could take legal action against you, and 
you could end up paying more in interest and charges. Missed payments could affect your 
credit rating and make it more difficult to get credit in the future.
And the Default Notice dated 26 April 2018 said, You must pay £95.64 by 
17 May 2018What will happen if I dont pay before the date shown? Well terminate your 
credit agreement with us, close your credit card account and ask you to pay the full account 
balance immediately. If we terminate your credit agreement, we may sell your account to a 
third party. We will also share details of the status of your account with credit reference 
agencies which may make it harder for you to get credit in the future.
So, the letters Aqua sent Miss F were clear  that legal action could take place and credit 
reference agencies notified.
In this case, I think its reasonable that Miss F should have been aware that her account may 
be defaulted, as Aqua hadnt told her it wouldnt be following the call in June 2018. And
Miss F broke the terms of the payment plan with P in August 2018, when she didnt make a 
payment.
Generally when the terms of a payment plan arent met, the ICO guidance confirms that a 
lender is entitled to apply a default as soon as a payment is missed, as long as a customer is 
three months in arrears on the original agreement. So Aqua could have defaulted the 
account in August 2018. Here, Aqua applied a default on 27 February 2019 when it sold the 
account to L and defaulted it. I think it was entitled to do this given the length of time the 
account had been in arrears and that it had notified Miss F that her credit file could be
affected
Having said this, I think Aqua should have applied the default earlier. The default notice it 
sent in April 2018 stated Miss F needed to make a payment by 17 May 2018. Miss F didnt 
make a payment until 28 June 2018. As Miss F hadnt made a payment towards the account 
for six months  between December 2017 and May 2018 - and the account was in arrears, I 
think Aqua should have applied the default in May 2018 when it notified Miss F it would.
Lenders should stop applying interest and charges from the date of an account being 
defaulted. In this case, I can see Aqua stopped applying interest and charges to the account 
after 17 May 2018. So I dont require it to make any amendments to the account balance.
I have every sympathy with Miss Fs situation, given the impact a default can have. But I 
must make a decision based on the balance of evidence here. And here given the letters 
and notices that Miss F was sent, she should have been reasonably aware that a default 
would be registered.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence. Both 
Miss F and Aqua got in touch and said they didnt agree to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reviewed the points both Miss F and Aqua made following receipt of my provisional 
decision. Having done so, my provisional decision remains unchanged. Ive explained why 
below.
Miss F said despite what Aqua told our service, she hadnt missed payments as it said she 
did. She said this meant she wasnt over her credit limit. She also said she hadnt received 
the letters Aqua claimed it sent her and Aqua didnt tell her the debt had been transferred to 
P. Aqua said it had applied the default in line with its internal policy.
The two bank statements Miss F sent showed payments made to Aqua between 
August 2016 and February 2018. These payments are reflected in the credit card statements 
that Aqua sent our service. But despite these payments, Miss Fs account was still over its 
limit. And no payments were made to the account between 2 February 2018 and 
2 July 2018. So Aqua was entitled to default the account in May 2018, as more than three 
monthly payments had been missed and the account remained over its credit limit.
Miss F also said she didnt receive the letters that Aqua claims it sent her. She accepts she 
received a copy of the default notice in June 2018, but says she didnt receive a default 
notice prior to this. Ive seen a copy of the default notice sent to Miss F in April 2018, the 
missed payment letters and statements Aqua sent Miss F. I can see the letters it sent Miss F 
were all addressed correctly. There may have been postal issues, but I cant hold Aqua 
responsible for this. I think its more likely than not the letters were sent to Miss F, given she 
received the default notice in June 2018 and her address hadnt changed. 
In addition, Miss F called Aqua on 13 April 2018 and was aware that her account was in 
arrears and needed to be brought up to date. A payment wasnt made by the date she 
promised to pay by, so she would have been reasonably aware that Aqua may take further 
action if she didnt bring the account up to date. Miss F agrees the terms and conditions of 
her account state after three missed payments, theres a possibility for further action, 
including negative reporting to her credit file. She says it doesnt state this is a given. 
However, Im satisfied Aqua sent Miss F a default notice in April 2018 explaining a default 
would be applied if the account wasnt brought up to date. So I think Aqua did make it clear a 
default would be applied to Miss Fs account. 
I sympathise with Miss F about the situation she found herself in, given that she said her 
income was significantly reduced. I also acknowledge that the account was passed to P and 
then sold to L. However, this is action Aqua was entitled to take to recover the amounts 
owed to it, given the account had been over its limit for some time.
Ive also thought about whether it was reasonable for Aqua to default the account in 
February 2019. 
I accept Aqua says it followed its internal policy when it defaulted the account. However, 
having considered the circumstances, I think Aqua should have defaulted the account earlier 
as Miss Fs account had been over limit since December 2017 and so she was in breach of 
the terms and conditions of it. Miss F didnt make a payment towards the account until after 
date of the default notice, she hadnt made any significant payments to reduce the arrears 
and it was unlikely, given her circumstances, that she would have been able to reduce the arrears for some time. In fact the account was still in arrears when the default was applied in 
February 2019. So, considering these reasons, I think it would have been fair for Aqua to 
default the account in May 2018 when it said it would. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) to 
arrange to amend Miss Fs credit file to show the default date as 17 May 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman