DRN-3396803
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund him the money he lost as the 
result of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr Z was the victim of a scam. He received a call from 
someone who said they were calling from his broadband internet provider but who we now 
know to be a fraudster. The fraudster told him there were issues with his broadband that 
meant hackers might be able to use his IP address to access his bank accounts.  
Mr Z has told us that the person he spoke to went through some basic verification 
questions with him and then asked him to install team viewer on both his laptop and mobile 
phone. They then directed him to a website which appeared to show hackers attempting to 
gain access to his online accounts. Mr Z was directed to log in to his online bank account 
(held with a third-party bank). Mr Z says he was shown two transactions had debited his 
account which he didnt recognise. We now know that the fraudsters were able to 
manipulate what Mr Z saw on screen to give him the impression that hackers had access 
to his bank accounts and were making transactions. But at the time, Mr Z thought these 
transactions were genuine and hes told us that this persuaded him his money was at risk 
of being stolen.
The fraudster then told Mr Z that the only way to keep all of his accounts secure was to 
make a series of payments to a virtual account which would ultimately allow the hackers to 
be caught. Mr Z initially declined to make any payments as he didnt want to use his own 
funds but was reassured when the fraudster told him that they had a special fund to use in 
these circumstances. The fraudsters told Mr Z that they would put money into his account 
in order to make the payments and he wouldnt have to use any of his own money.  
Mr Z said the fraudster was then able to show him that £9,000 had been transferred into 
his account - he saw his balance increase on screen. Again, with the benefit of hindsight, 
we know that Mr Zs screen was being manipulated by the fraudsters to give the 
impression that funds had been paid into his account. In reality, this wasnt true, and the 
only funds available in Mr Zs account were his own.  
Mr Z has told us that the fraudster then transferred £8,900 from his bank account to his 
Monzo account. They then transferred the same amount from his Monzo account to 
another Monzo account that wasnt in his name. The fraudster then told Mr Z that as a 
result of the transfer, a hacker had been caught and Mr Z was shown a picture of the 
supposed hacker on a fake Interpol page. 
The fraudster then told Mr Z that a second hacker had to be caught. He was told that a 
further £2,500 had been paid into his account to allow him to make some further transfers 
to catch them. The fraudster then transferred this £2,500 from his bank account to his 
Monzo account. But this time, Mr Z was told that he would need to set up an account with a 
third-party money remittance service so the payment could be transferred out of his Monzo 
account to India  where the hacker was based. For ease, throughout this decision, Ill refer 
to the third-party money remittance provider as Company R. 
Mr Z has told us that he provided the fraudsters with his email address so an account with 
Company R could be set up and once this was completed, the fraudster entered Mr Zs 
card details into Company Rs website in order to facilitate the transfer. 
At this point, Monzo sent Mr Z a passcode to enter to confirm he was authorising the 
transfer. Mr Z provided this code to the fraudsters and the payment debited Mr Zs Monzo 
account. 
Mr Z had been on the call with the fraudsters for about 3 hours by this point and had to end 
it to go to a meeting. However, later the same afternoon, the fraudsters called back. They 
told Mr Z that they needed his help to catch another hacker in a foreign country. Mr Z has 
told us that he went through the same process again and a further £250 was transferred 
from his bank account to his Monzo account. The fraudsters then used Mr Zs card details 
to make a further payment via Company R which in turn incurred a £1.99 handling fee. At 
this point, the fraudsters assured Mr Z that the security process was now complete and his 
accounts were now secure. 
Around 15 minutes later, Mr Z decided to login to his online banking to make sure everything 
was okay. It was at this point that he noticed that both the current and savings account he 
held with the third-party bank had been drained of funds. Mr Z realised he had been 
scammed and contacted Monzo. In total Mr Z had lost £11,651.99.
Monzo looked into Mr Zs complaint and acknowledged that he had been the victim of a 
scam but it declined to offer him a refund. It said Mr Z had ignored scam warnings that 
had popped up on his screen during the payment process. It also didnt think Mr Z had 
taken enough steps to check who he was paying and the reason for the payments before 
he allowed the payments to leave his account.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr Z brought his complaint to this service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. She agreed with Monzo that Mr Z had proceeded to 
make the first payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was speaking with 
his genuine broadband provider. But she didnt agree with Monzo that Mr Z had ignored 
effective warnings throughout the payment process and because of this, she 
recommended Monzo refund Mr Z 50% of the first payment plus interest. Our investigator 
pointed out that the following two payments had been made using Mr Zs debit card and 
so these had to be considered differently to the first payment, which was an online 
transfer. And because Mr Z had provided the fraudsters with his card details and security 
passcode in order to allow these transactions to be made, he had broken the terms and 
conditions of his account and it wouldnt be fair to hold Monzo liable for these transactions 
now.
Mr Z agreed with our investigators opinion but Monzo did not. It said that as Mr Z had 
made payments without verifying who he was speaking to or what he was being told, it 
shouldnt be held liable for any of the losses at all. It pointed out that when Mr Z was 
asked to select the reason he was making the first payment from a drop-down list as part 
of its online payment process, he had selected the payment reason something else. 
Monzo said that there was a more accurate payment reason available for Mr Z to select. 
And so, whilst it acknowledged that the warning that had popped up at this point wasnt specific to the type of scam Mr Z fell victim to, it said this was because Mr Z hadnt select 
the correct reason for payment. If he had, Monzo said it wouldve been able to show him 
an effective warning which may have prevented the scam from taking place. Monzo said 
it shouldnt be held liable for 50% of the first payment if the reason it hadnt been able to 
provide an effective warning was because the customer had picked the wrong payment 
option.
Our investigator didnt change her mind and as an agreement has not been reached the 
case has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently minded to reach the same outcome to the one reached by 
our investigator  in that I think the complaint should be partially upheld. Ill explain why in 
more detail below. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider (in this case, Monzo) 
is expected to process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), and the customers account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment(s) as a result of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its customer, 
even though the payment(s) were authorised.
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which Monzo is not a signatory of but which it has agreed to act in the spirit of, it should 
reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams, except in limited 
circumstances. In this case, only the first payment for £8,900 can be considered a push 
payment the following two payments were debit card payments. And so it is only payment 
one that I have considered under the CRM Code. I will address the card payments 
separately later on.
The CRM Code - Payment 1  (£8,900)
In considering the first payment, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have 
reimbursed Mr Z under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mr Z from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a level 
of care on Mr Z and so I have also considered whether Mr Z met the required level of care 
too. 
As Ive said above, The Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but limited 
circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that its customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under one, or more, of 
the listed exceptions set out in The Code itself.
Those exceptions are:
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable 
here. 
Did Mr Z have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM code, Monzo can choose not to reimburse Mr Z in full if it doesnt believe 
he took the requisite level of care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for believing that 
the business he was paying was legitimate. It isnt enough for Mr Z to have believed that 
he was paying a legitimate business, he had to have a reasonable basis for that belief.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations that Mr Z did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was making a payment to his genuine broadband provider, and I 
agree. In particular, Im not persuaded Mr Z did take the requisite level of care required 
for Monzo to reimburse him in full under the terms of the CRM Code and Im not 
persuaded that he had a reasonable basis for believing he was speaking with his 
broadband provider or that he was making payments from his account to catch online 
hackers abroad. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by 
the fraudsters and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mr Z when acting in the 
moment. Ill explain why:
Mr Z appears to have believed what he was being told by the fraudsters without 
trying to independently verify the information they were giving him. 
Its unclear how any potential hackers couldve used Mr Zs IP address to access 
his bank accounts and so its unclear why Mr Z found this story plausible.
Mr Zs broadband provider wouldnt generally play a role in preventing crime or 
need access to its customers personal bank accounts. And Im satisfied that this 
should have struck Mr Z as unusual. It would be his bank that dealt with any 
potential threats of fraud on his account, not his internet provider.
Its unclear why Mr Zs broadband provider would need a member of the publics 
help to catch so called international hackers in a foreign country  and how they 
would do this. But Mr Z doesnt appear to have questioned this.
Mr Z has told us that he would not and did not agree to the use of his own funds 
being used to catch the hackers. He has told us that throughout the scam, he 
thought he was using funds given to him by his broadband provider for this 
purpose. But this suggests to me that Mr Z was cautious enough to not want to 
use his own money. Yet despite being somewhat cautious, he proceeded to 
authorise the transfers from his account by allowing the fraudster to enter the details 
on his behalf.   
Its not plausible that Mr Zs broadband provider would have a special fund set aside 
to aid members of the public in catching hackers that were based abroad. Its also 
unclear why it would need a member of the public to make payments from their 
bank account in order to catch these hackers or why Mr Z would need to set up an 
account to transfer money abroad. And Im satisfied that this should have been 
strange enough that it shouldve prompted further questioning from Mr Z.
Overall, and based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that what Mr Z was being told 
was plausible and yet he appears to have accepted what the fraudsters told him at face 
value without completing any independent verification checks of his own. Given the particular 
circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied this was reasonable and I think he shouldve 
taken steps to check who he was speaking with before agreeing to make payments out of 
his account in order to meet the required level of care under the CRM Code, especially considering the amount of money involved. And so I dont think Mr Z met his obligations 
under the code in regard to the first payment. 
Did Mr Z ignore an effective warning?
Monzo have said that Mr Z ignored an effective warning that was presented to him on 
screen during the payment process for the £8,900 payment. Monzo has said that during this 
process, Mr Z was prompted, on screen, to select a reason for the payment from a drop-
down list. Monzo has said Mr Z chose something else from this drop-down list and was 
then shown a scam warning appropriate for the payment reason he had selected. Monzo 
has acknowledged that this warning is unlikely to have be considered effective under the 
CRM code but it doesnt think it should be held liable for this. 
Monzo has said that its obligations under the code to share an effective warning are based 
on customer input and in this case, it was not possible for it to provide Mr Z with a warning 
specific to the scam that he was about to fall victim to as he had not accurately recorded the 
reason for the payment he was making.
Whist I acknowledge the arguments put forward by Monzo, the fact remains that under the 
CRM Code, Monza has an obligation to provide its customers with an effective warning 
should it identify an APP scam risk in the payment journey. And, in this case, as the warning 
provided by Monzo wasnt specific to the type of scam Mr Z ultimately fell victim to, Im not 
persuaded that the warning provided to Mr Z at the time could be considered an effective 
warning under the Code. So, Im not satisfied Monzo has been able to establish that Mr Z 
should not be reimbursed on the basis that he ignored an effective warning.
Could Monzo have done anything else to prevent the scam?
I also think Monzo ought to have done more than it ultimately did to try and protect Mr Z 
from financial harm from fraud. This payment was of a relatively high value and it was 
being made to a new payee. Had Monzo spoken with Mr Z about the payment at the 
time, I think the scam wouldve likely come to light and Monzo would have been able tell 
Mr Z that it was unlikely he was speaking with his internet provider. However, that 
doesnt mean I think Monzo should be held entirely responsible for the loss of the first 
payment. As Ive set out above, I dont think either Mr Z or Monzo met their requisite 
obligations under the CRM Code and so Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all the circumstances, would be for Monzo to refund Mr Z 50% of the first 
payment (plus interest at the account rate) and for Mr Z to bear responsibility for the 
rest.
The card payments
The final two payments that left Mr Zs account were debit card payments and these 
arent covered by the CRM code. The regulations relevant to these transactions are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (The PSRs) in addition to the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. Under the terms and conditions of his account, 
Mr Z has a responsibility to protect his account from fraud. That includes keeping 
things like debit cards safe and not sharing his security information, such as his PIN, 
security codes and online banking details with anyone else. And so I now need to 
decide if Mr Z failed to keep his account information safe and whether he failed with 
intent to do so.Intent generally means an action that someone has deliberately taken. And so, alongside 
the terms and conditions of his account, Ive thought about whether Mr Z deliberately gave 
away any security details which ultimately allowed the payments to leave his account.
The terms and conditions of the account set out the following: 
Examples of when you wont be able to claim back money youve lost may include if:
you gave us incorrect instructions, or we can prove that the bank we sent your 
payment to received it (although well still try to help you recover your money)
you purposefully didnt keep your phone, card (including virtual card), PIN or 
other security details safe, you were very negligent in not keeping them safe, 
you gave them to someone else, or your account is overdrawn
you acted fraudulently.
In this case, it appears Mr Z shared his debit card information with the fraudsters to allow 
the payments to Company R to take place. Hes also told us that he shared a security 
passcode that was sent by Monzo to his mobile phone to allow the authorisation of the first 
payment. Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Zs account, Im satisfied its 
made clear that security credentials such as his card information and secure codes 
shouldnt be provided/shared with anyone. I appreciate Mr Z was under the impression that 
he was speaking with his genuine internet provider and what he was doing would ultimately 
secure his account. But ultimately sharing this information meant he (with intent) failed in 
his obligations to protect his security details. And this means hes breached the terms and 
conditions of his account. 
For this reason, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Monzo is 
entitled to hold Mr Z liable for the final two card transactions that left his account - £2,500 
and £251.99 respectively. And so, I wont be asking Monzo to refund these payments to 
him now.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be partially upheld.
Monzo Bank Ltd should now reimburse Mr Z in-line with the provisions of the CRM Code by:
Refunding him £4,450 - 50% of the loss attributed to the first payment.
Paying him interest at the account rate on the above sum from the date the funds 
left the account, up until the date of refund.
Monzo doesnt need to take any further action in relation to the final two card 
payments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman