DRN-3039964
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Where the particulars of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. I hope Mrs M and 
Monzo wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
Mrs M wanted to buy some clothing online and intended to pay around £70 for the items 
using her PayPal account. But when she went to pay the online merchant, she was told that 
she needed to speak to PayPal before she could go ahead. Wanting to rectify that, Mrs M 
looked up the number for PayPal and found what she thought was a genuine customer 
services number. It turned out the number was fraudulent, on a fake website and in use by a 
scammer.
Mrs M was told by who she thought was a PayPal agent that she needed to share some 
details about her Monzo account to proceed with the payment for the clothing. Mrs M cant 
remember exactly what information she disclosed, but we know that her intention was to 
verify the purchase so that a payment could be made from her account. What followed was a 
payment of £650.03 to an altogether different merchant, which for the purposes of this 
decision Ill refer to as E. 
When Mrs M realised what had happened, she reported the scam to Monzo. The bank 
declined to reimburse the transaction, as it said it had been authorised. It also thought that 
Mrs M hadnt taken reasonable measures to keep her details safe. And the bank stood by its 
decision when Mrs M raised a complaint.
Mrs M brought the dispute to our service and one of our investigators concluded that Monzo 
could not fairly be required to refund the payment. Because Mrs M disagrees, the matter has 
been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator  
and fundamentally for the same reasons. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs M. 
This is a finely-balanced case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything 
thats been provided. Including, the vulnerabilities that she has described to this service. 
But based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Monzo ought to refund the disputed 
transaction on account of the following:
1) As a starting point, Mrs M contests that she shared confidential details of her Monzo 
account  she disagrees with Monzos position that she failed to take reasonable 
measures to keep her account information safe. Whereas, Monzo has provided evidence 
which demonstrates that Mrs M did in fact share specific information with the fraudsters, 
and so this transaction must be considered to have been authorised. 
2) The question of authorisation is a key one in a case of this kind. Because, although its 
common ground that Mrs M didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, she is presumed 
liable in the first instance if she authorised the transaction. 
3) Ive listened to the relevant call recordings of when Mrs M first reported the scam to 
Monzo and the subsequent conversations she had with the bank. Ive also reviewed 
transcripts of the online chat messages she shared with Monzo. On Mrs Ms version of 
what happened, she did tell the bank on multiple occasions that she shared certain 
information with the fraudsters. By her own admission, both over the phone and as 
clearly described in these online exchanges, she gave the fraudsters what they asked for 
under the guise of them facilitating a payment for her.  
4) Conversely, Mrs M later told the bank and our service that she didnt disclose such 
details. I am therefore faced with a statement from Mrs M which, with respect, is slightly 
vague and self-contradictory regarding what are critical elements to this dispute. 
5) Whats more, Mrs M has conceded that her memory was hazy in part. While I can 
appreciate that her recollection may not be entirely clear, and this was unmistakably an 
upsetting ordeal, for me to accept her side of things and agree this was an unauthorised 
payment, I would need to be convinced there was another plausible explanation for how 
it went ahead. However, based on whats before me, Im not satisfied there was a 
persuasive alternative. 
6) Indeed, we know the verification code sent by Monzo was needed in order to proceed 
with the transaction. It was part of a secure method of confirming whether Mrs M was 
happy to go ahead with the payment  with her being the only recipient of the code. 
Theres no suggestion of how else the fraudsters were able to obtain this unique set of 
data. Consequently, its highly unlikely the payment was executed without Mrs M sharing 
this information.  
7) In situations like these, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
need to decide a complaint on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of all the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
8) On balance, Im persuaded that Mrs M found what she believed to be PayPals website 
when she searched for it online. And when she called the number provided, she thought 
she was speaking with PayPal. When told she needed to provide further information for 
the payment for the clothing to go ahead, I think Mrs M provided her card details to the 
scammer to carry out a transaction. This likely included the long card number, the expiry 
date, the CVV on the reverse, and when the payment was requested, Mrs M disclosed 
the verification code shed been sent by Monzo. 
9) By providing her card details to the scammer, Mrs M provided apparent authority for the 
disputed transaction to be carried out, which she ultimately consented to by divulging the 
verification number. The £650.03 payment was therefore authorised, even though Mrs M 
was the victim of a scam. 10) I realise Mrs M may disagree, but I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, theres 
strong evidence that she did authorise this payment according to the PSRs. Besides, if 
Mrs M was tricked into making a payment, or deceived about the amount she was 
paying, that doesnt necessarily make the payment transaction unauthorised.
11) Ive gone on to consider what the payment being authorised means in the circumstances 
of this complaint, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes and practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
12) In summary, Monzo has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made to, 
amongst other things, prevent fraud and scams. And the bank needs to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its customers 
are at risk of fraud. So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Ive considered 
whether Monzo should have deemed this payment as being so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have given the bank sufficient grounds for suspecting 
fraud. 
13) Looking at the statements from the account opening, there were regular card payments 
and another £600 transaction carried out in recent times. The disputed transaction did 
not completely drain the account of its available balance. Its evident that Mrs M had 
made numerous online card purchases, similar to the one in dispute. 
14) I also have to bear in mind that Mrs M hadnt been with Monzo for long  she had only 
held a relationship with the bank for a little over two months. The lack of information and 
history of expenditure naturally limited the amount of data that Monzo had to accurately 
gauge Mrs Ms usual spending pattern. 
15) In isolation, the payment to E was not for a distinctive amount when looked at against the 
backdrop of what Mrs M paid in. In fact, Mrs M had replenished the account with at least 
ten cash deposits that totalled well over twice that amount, all within the space of less 
than three months. Therefore, theres a reasonable argument that, from the banks 
perspective, this was simply a planned payment which was made possible by frequent 
credits. 
16) The PSRs are designed to protect consumers, but also to ensure that banks provide 
services without undue delay. So, there is a balance to be struck between bankers 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. I dont consider that a payment of c.£650  when considered in the 
context of a new account with repeated credits being paid in  is a large enough sum to 
have attracted suspicion. If Monzo were expected to intervene for every payment around 
£650, it would risk grinding the banking/payment system to a halt.
17) Mrs M submits that a new payee should be enough to trigger the bank to take action. In 
a sense, a new payee was created in order for the payment to be made to E  Mrs M 
had never paid the beneficiary before. Accordingly, Ive considered whether this alone 
shouldve been enough to trigger the banks fraud detection measures. 
18) Having done so, Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs M. As Ive already explained, banks do 
have a responsibility in respect of transaction monitoring. But Im not satisfied that, on its 
own, the creation of a new payee is enough to indicate uncharacteristic activity and 
warrant intervention from a bank. Indeed, the nature of a new account is that it would be 
expected that a number of new payees be created in the first few months. 19) Finally, Mrs M submits that Monzo ought to have been alerted by a £1 payment into the 
account just before the disputed transaction was made. As I understand it, this same 
amount was then debited moments after the £650.03 was sent. For the avoidance of 
doubt, its not entirely clear how Mrs M expected Monzo to have identified that these 
three payments were all connected to a scam taking place  there doesnt seem an 
inextricable link between them.   
20) But in any case, given the nominal amount of both the credit and debit, I am not 
persuaded that Monzo breached its duty here. Even more so, when considering this 
activity in contrast to the vast majority (if not all) of the recent payments made both into 
and out of Mrs Ms account. Account movements of £1 could very rarely be regarded by 
a bank as suspicious. And a token payment can be a genuine method of verifying a 
consumer by merchants; such reversals quite often serve as a means to confirm that the 
account details presented are correct. So, the presence of this credit/debit in quick 
succession does not convince me that Monzo should have taken further steps to contact 
Mrs M before querying the payment in question. 
21) In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs M being the victim of what was 
clearly a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Monzo to refund the loss if I 
thought the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. 
Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Monzo liable in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman