DRN-1172951
 
Complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs H was sold a PPI policy in connection with a credit card in July 2000 in the post.
The policy cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% 
of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs H was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mrs H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs H was eligible for the policy. Im satisfied Mrs H was 
eligible for the PPI based on her age and employment at the time of the sale.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mrs H that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement/application form. This had a separate section 
headed PPI. Within this section, there were two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. I 
note the option to take PPI has been ticked and the form has been signed by Mrs H. So I 
think its more likely that Nationwide did make it clear to Mrs H that the policy was optional 
and that it was only applied to the account because Mrs H agreed to take it out.
Given that this was a postal sale with no apparent involvement from a representative, I dont 
think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs H. This means they didnt have had to check 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs H. So for example, they didnt have to take into account Mrs Hs 
existing repayment provisions. Instead it would have been for Mrs H to decide whether she 
wanted to take PPI despite her existing repayment provisions.
But they did have to provide Mrs H with clear information so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether to take PPI or not. In particular, this would have been 
information about the main exclusions/restrictions, costs and benefits of the policy. I dont 
know whether Nationwide did provide Mrs H with all of the information as they should have. But this in itself doesnt mean that PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put Mrs H off taking PPI. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this because:
 
Although Mrs H has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay if she off work sick, the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
this and would have been particularly useful when Mrs Hs sick pay reduced to half. It 
would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs H may have been 
entitled to. 
 
Mrs H didnt appear to have been affected by the main restrictions and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for her to make a successful claim under 
the policy. For example, those relating to certain medical conditions and working 
arrangements. 
 
I havent seen anything which suggests the PPI was unaffordable to Mrs H. 
 
Mrs H couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
So based on the evidence available to me, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mrs H this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman