DRN-4334079
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc gave him misleading information about how interest 
would be applied to his Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
In April 2022, Mr M held an existing fixed rate ISA which was due to mature. He visited his 
local branch to discuss his options. He explained he wanted to reinvest the funds in another 
ISA but didnt want a fixed rate. 
Mr M says the branch staff suggested that he should open a Save Well Limited Access ISA 
which was at a variable rate of 0.39% tax free if he didnt make any withdrawals. But if he 
made a withdrawal, hed receive a lower rate for that calendar month. He explained that the 
branch staff confirmed that the interest rate on the account would rise if the Bank of England 
base rate increased as this was forecasted at the time.
In August 2022, Mr M was checking his accounts and realised that the interest rate on his 
Save Well Limited Access ISA hadnt risen but TSB were offering a higher rate of 0.99% tax 
free for new customers. Mr M visited his local branch again. He says the branch staff and 
manager confirmed again that since his account was a variable rate the interest rate 
shouldve risen to 0.99% tax free, so a complaint was raised.
TSB initially told Mr M that they hadnt made a mistake. They explained that the Save Well 
Limited Access ISA is opened for a fixed term of 12 months and the interest rate of 0.39% 
tax free will remain on the account for this period. They said that while the terms and 
conditions refer to the interest rate being variable, and the rate could go up and down. But 
this was in reference to the rate decreasing for a calendar month if funds were withdrawn 
from the account and then increasing again the following month as long as no withdrawals 
were made. 
They also clarified that the Save Well Limited Access ISA wasnt a tracker rate which follows 
the Bank of England base rate. They told Mr M that if he closed his Save Well Limited 
Access ISA which he could do at any time, he wouldnt be able to open another account until 
the 12-month term is over. 
Mr M remained unhappy and wrote to his branch reiterating the conversations he had with 
them in April 2022 when he took out the account and then in August 2022 when the 
complaint was raised.
Following this, TSB wrote to Mr M accepting he was given incorrect information regarding 
the interest rate on his Save Well Limited Access ISA. They explained theyd spoken to 
branch staff whod confirmed he was told that the interest on his Save Well Limited Access 
ISA was variable and the interest rate on his account would increase if their rates also 
increased. They told Mr M that the rate on his account wouldnt change, he could either 
leave the account as it was and continue to earn 0.39% tax free or close the account and 
move the funds to another account which offers a better return. 
They credited Mr Ms account with £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. They acknowledged Mr M may have incurred expenses, so they agreed to review 
costs such as telephone calls, fuel costs and parking. Mr M closed his Save Well Limited 
Access ISA and transferred his funds to another provider. He also referred his complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator said Mr M was given incorrect information in branch when he opened the 
account. He felt the terms and conditions were misleading since it gave the impression that 
the interest rate was variable, which meant it could go up or down, but TSB confirmed that 
the interest rate could go down during a calendar month if a withdrawal was made but 
wouldnt rise above 0.39% tax free. He recommended TSB pay Mr M an additional £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr M accepted the investigators 
opinion.
The investigator then reconsidered the redress and asked TSB to calculate Mr Ms financial 
loss. He proposed TSB should identify the ISA product that accurately reflected what Mr M 
wanted to achieve, calculate the interest Mr M wouldve earned from this product between 
the date he invested his funds to the date he withdrew from the ISA, and deduct the interest 
he earned in the same period in his Save Well Limited Access ISA. TSB disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2023, and I made the following findings:
Firstly, I think itd be helpful to explain that its not within my remit to investigate 
wider banking industry practises on how interest rates work for savers as opposed to 
borrowers. This is the role of the financial services regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority. In making my decision, Ill only be focusing on the individual circumstances 
of Mr Ms complaint.
I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mr M's account. This explains that the 
savings interest rate is variable which means it can go up or down any time. The 
savings account general conditions explain some situations where this might happen, 
for example changes to the Bank of England base rate. This doesnt mean that the 
rate will go up or down based on the changes to the Bank of England base rate but 
rather that it could.
I haven't seen anything within the written documents which suggests that the saving 
interest rate tracks the Bank of England base rate. So, I don't think the terms and 
conditions are unclear or misleading. 
TSB are also within their rights to offer a different rate to customers signing up to 
their accounts for a fixed term at different times. It follows I dont think theyve treated 
Mr M unfairly by offering a higher rate of 0.99% tax free or a different rate to other 
customers. Mr M himself has benefited by this as he received a higher rate on the 
Save Well Limited Access ISA he opened in October 2022.
That said, TSB have already admitted their branch staff gave Mr M incorrect 
information about how the interest rate applied to his Save Well Limited Access ISA. 
Mr M says he decided to proceed with opening this particular account on the basis of 
the information he was provided. I find Mr Ms testimony to be persuasive, so I accept 
he chose to open the Save Well Limited Access ISA based on the incorrect 
information he was given by branch staff.Ive thought about what Mr M wouldve done differently if hed been given the correct 
information to establish if he has suffered a financial loss. Mr M has told us that he 
wanted to invest his funds in an ISA, but he didnt want a fixed rate because of the 
volatile state of the market and the low rates on offer at the time. He also strongly 
believed the Bank of England base rate was due to increase imminently. 
I think its more likely than not that if Mr M realised that the rate of his ISA wouldnt 
track the Bank of England base rate, hed have looked for an account that did. Given 
the time thats passed, I cant say for certain whether Mr M wouldve found a product 
with another provider which met his requirements  a cash ISA which tracked the 
Bank of England base rate. And even if a product of this nature was available, I cant 
know for sure the rate Mr M wouldve been offered.
From my research, there doesnt appear to be many tracker cash ISAs available in 
the marketplace. So, Im not convinced Mr M wouldve had many options for this type 
of account when he was looking to reinvest his funds in April 2022.
I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve chosen another provider offering a 
higher rate on a variable ISA with limited or unlimited access. This wouldve given 
him the flexibility to move his funds to other providers offering better rates following 
any Bank of England base rate changes.
Ive had a look at the best rates offered on a comparison site for a variable cash ISA 
account for a one-month period from 28 April 2022. And the average rate of the top 
providers appears to be around 0.95% tax free which is significantly higher than the 
rate of 0.39% tax free offered by TSB. 
As explained above, I think Mr M wouldve likely shopped around if he was given the 
correct information by TSB, and naturally wouldve sought to get the best rate 
possible for his savings. As a result of the incorrect information given by TSB, Im 
satisfied Mr M has suffered a financial loss of interest which I think they can be fairly 
held responsible for.
I think TSB should recalculate the interest rate of the account as if it were 0.95% tax 
free instead of 0.39% tax free from 28 April 2022 until 16 September 2022 and refund 
Mr M this amount deducting £97.91 to take into account the interest he earned on his 
Save Well Limited Access ISA account before it was closed on 16 September 2022.
It also appears TSB have continued to provide Mr M conflicting and contradictory 
information about how the interest rate applied to his account. TSBs responses to Mr 
Ms complaint suggests that the interest rate on his account couldnt rise above 
0.39% tax free for the term of the account. And the variable rate refers to the rate 
decreasing for a calendar month if funds were withdrawn from the account and then 
increasing again the following month as long as no withdrawals were made. 
However, this isnt my understanding of how the account operates based on the 
terms and conditions. It clearly explains that the rate is variable which can go up or 
down at any time  meaning its not fixed at 0.39% tax free for the term of the 
account. TSB have also confirmed this within their submissions to our service, so I 
think they missed a few opportunities to provide Mr M with the correct information.
TSB also told Mr M that if he closed his Save Well Limited Access ISA, he wouldnt 
be able to open another one until after the 12-month term was over. However, it appears this information isnt accurate either as I can see Mr M was able to open 
another Save Well Limited Access ISA in October 2022.
All things considered, I think TSB have given Mr M poor customer service, not least 
by giving incorrect information in branch about how interest was applied to his 
account, but also the inconsistent information he was provided after he raised a 
complaint.
I have no doubt that this matter has caused Mr M unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. TSB have acknowledged their error and apologised to Mr M. Theyve 
also paid him £100 compensation and offered to cover his expenses. 
Taking into account the impact on Mr M, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation 
that TSB have already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused. TSB have also offered to review any 
expenses Mr M has incurred in addition to the compensation amount, which I dont 
think theyre required to do here. Ill leave it up to Mr M to decide if he wants to make 
a claim for expenses with TSB directly, as this offer appears to remain open to him. 
Overall, I wont be asking TSB to do anything else, apart from reimburse Mr M the 
loss of interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
TSB didnt respond within the deadline given. Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Since there arent any new points or comments from either party, there isnt anything else for 
me to consider. Im satisfied with the findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from 
the outcome I explained in my provisional decision.
As a reminder, to put things right, TSB should:
Recalculate the interest rate on Mr Ms account from 28 April to 16 September 2022 
at the rate of 0.95% tax free.
Refund this amount to Mr M deducting £97.91.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman