DRN-3818343
The complaint
Ms V complains she was mis-sold investment bonds by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd) which 
has caused her a financial loss as they werent secure and she hasnt received a return on 
her investment. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Ms V invested in a B&G Plc four-year Compounding High-Yield Bond (BG25490) and three-
year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond (BG27375). Sales of these bonds were dealt with 
by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), 
the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investment in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018. 
Ms Vs investment in the bonds
Ms V came across the bonds through an online advertisement and the spreadsheet Ive 
seen confirms she applied for the bonds by completing an online application in October 
2017. Ms V, who was a housewife at the time, had inherited some money and was looking 
for a low risk investment. She understood the bonds to be low risk and were able to provide 
a high return. Ms V said she had no complex investment experience. In total, she had 
approximately £100,000 held in savings. This money was mainly held in cash ISAs, though 
she did have small amounts of shares in British Gas and Lloyds TSB from the 1980s. 
In terms of call recordings, there were calls made between BG Ltd and Ms V. However, 
these calls dont change the overall outcome of this complaint and so I havent relied on 
them within my investigation. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Ms V 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Ms V completed an online application and I have seen screen prints of each stage of the 
process. These show the application journey that Ms V underwent. This consisted of two 
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Ms V was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the 
appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Ms Vs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Ms Vs complaint. It said Ms V had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Ms Vs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators considered Ms Vs complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Ms V as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Ms V wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Ms V to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Ms V for the loss she has suffered.
There were three bonds sold in total but one of them we couldnt consider as it 
was for a one-year fixed period and wouldve matured before B&G and BGL 
Ltd fell into administration. If this had rolled into another bond it would be a 
matter for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) to consider.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the Investigators view. It said, in summary:
The website and marketing material was not misleading  Ms V was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Regardless of label, Ms V was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Ms V giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Ms V made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the two bonds were able to consider. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 
10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the Investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Ms V into certifying herself as belonging in 
a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Ms V fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Ms V, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds were not an appropriate investment for Ms V. In the circumstances Ms V 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bonds to Ms V.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Ms Vs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms V would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Ms V for her loss.
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Ms V as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms V would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Ms V's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Ms V fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Ms V's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Ms V £350 for the distress and worry caused to her by the loss of her 
investment; an investment she never should've been allowed to invest in.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Four-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield Bond 
(BG25490)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Three-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield IFISA 
Bond 
(BG27375)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investments at the end date.If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms V agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Ms V that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investments on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms V wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms V's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms V would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms V in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms V either to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman