DRN-4484707
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr D raised a complaint about the loan provided to him in 2017. He says the loan was 
unaffordable as at the time his overdraft was higher than his monthly income. He says that 
as he also banked with Lloyds it would have had access to his bank statements and so 
would have been aware that he was experiencing financial difficulties as well as having a 
serious gambling problem. 
Lloyds issued its final response letter not upholding Mr Ds complaint. It said Mr D applied for 
a £5,000 loan on 17 November 2017 through its telephony system. It said that £2,000 of the 
loan was used to repay his overdraft. It said before lending to Mr D it carried out affordability 
and credit checks and as Mr D passed its checks the loan was provided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Lloyds to ask Mr D for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. He noted that the loan was used in part to repay other debt.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that Lloyds would have known he 
was using the maximum amount of his overdraft as it was his current account provider. He 
said that it would have been proportionate for his bank statements to have been reviewed 
and had this happened it would have been clear that he shouldnt have been provided with 
the loan. He said that although the loan was used in part to clear his overdraft the rest he 
gambled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. I have had 
this approach in mind when considering this complaint. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total cost of the credit, and what it knew about Mr D at the point of application. 
Mr D was provided with a £5,000 loan repayable over 24 months with monthly repayments of 
around £249. As part of the application process, Mr D provided details about his employment 
and residential status. He said he was employed with a monthly net income of £1,450 and 
was living with parents. Lloyds has said that it carried out a credit scoring assessment which 
applied an internal credit score based on information gained from the credit reference 
agencies. 
I havent seen details of Mr Ds credit report from the time but note he was using his 
overdraft. While I do not find that Lloyds was required to carry out a review of Mr Ds bank 
statements in regard to this lending, I have used the information contained in these to 
understand what Lloyds would have identified through its checks. 
Mr Ds bank statements for the months leading up to the loan show no evidence of any other 
major financial commitments that would have raised concerns through a credit search. 
Therefore, I do not find I can say that Lloyds credit checks should have resulted in further 
checks taking place.
Mr Ds bank statements support the income amount provided as part of his application. He 
had explained that he was living with parents and there is no evidence in his bank statement 
to suggest this wasnt correct. Mr D had limited committed expenses for items such as 
insurance and mobile phone but having considered his committed expenses against his 
income I do not find that this would have raised concerns that the lending was unaffordable.
Mr Ds use of his overdraft can be seen from his bank statements. But as the loan was 
intended in part to repay the overdraft, I find that this had been considered as part of the 
assessment. I understand how hard it must be for Mr D to discuss his gambling and I 
appreciate his honesty in providing this information. But in this case, I do not have evidence 
to show that Mr D had made Lloyds aware of his gambling at the time and considering the 
size of the loan, its purpose and the repayment amounts compared to Mr Ds income, I think 
the checks carried out were proportionate.  As these didnt raise concerns that the lending 
was unaffordable, I do not find I have enough to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman