The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank PLC closed his account without notice and recorded a 
CIFAS marker against his name. CIFAS is one of the UK's fraud alert services.
What happened
Mr D opened a Young Persons current account with Barclays in February 2017 and was 
issued with a debit card. At the beginning of May 2017, two regular savings accounts were 
opened within a few days of each other. On 9 May, one of the savings accounts was 
credited with £760. On the same day, within a short space of time, the credit was withdrawn 
using an assisted device machine (ASD) in one of the bank's branches.
Barclays received notice from a third party bank that the money had been taken fraudulently 
from its customers account. Barclays investigated and concluded that Mr D had knowingly 
received a fraudulent credit and benefitted from it. It closed all of Mr Ds accounts and 
recorded a CIFAS marker against his name.
Mr D says Barclays told him it was closing his account, but he was told it wouldnt record a 
marker against him. But, after successfully opening an account elsewhere, around a year 
later that bank closed his account. And hes had other account applications refused. He 
complained to Barclays but it wouldnt remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
it was most likely that Mr D was involved in the transactions  either by carrying them out 
himself or authorising someone else to do so  and that Barclays had met the standard of 
proof required for recording a fraud marker.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The branch manager told his father that, because she knew him, a CIFAS marker
wouldnt be recorded.
He had nothing to do with the fraud.
He cant explain how the transactions happened  but this service should find out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not this services role to investigate and uncover exactly how these transactions were 
allowed to happen; that is the role of the police and the banks fraud prevention departments. 
DRN-1780154Our role is to investigate the circumstances surrounding the complaint and decide if the bank 
has acted fairly and reasonably. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The money credited to Mr Ds account was a fraudulent transaction  the money had been 
debited from a third partys account without their consent. And the credit was withdrawn 
almost immediately. But, before placing the CIFAS marker against Mr Ds name, Barclays 
needed to have a reasonable belief that criminal charges could be brought against Mr D as a 
result of the activity. A suspicion or concern isnt enough. So I need to decide if theres 
enough evidence to show that Mr D knew more about this than he's told us.
I've considered what Mr D has told us very carefully and have taken into account that he was 
young when this happened. But, after careful consideration, I think Mr D knew more about 
the transactions than hes told us. I say that for the following reasons:
There wasnt a bank card issued for the savings account. But there was a card for the 
current account. This is the card that was used at an ASD on 9 May. Using that card gave 
access to all Mr Ds accounts and allowed the withdrawal of the £750. 
Whoever made the withdrawal must have known about the fraudulent credit, because the 
withdrawal was made so soon afterwards. And whoever made the withdrawal needed Mr Ds 
card, his PIN and his date of birth. Mr D says he lost his card. But that doesnt explain how 
the person who found his card also knew his PIN and his date of birth. Mr D told us he didnt 
tell anyone his PIN or write it down. And there doesnt seem to have been a point of 
compromise for his PIN. The last undisputed transaction was on 2 May and it seems unlikely 
that, if an individual had shoulder surfed him and then acquired his card, that that individual 
would wait until a week later to use the card to try to access any money in the account. 
Likewise, I cant see how the individual who used his card would have known Mr D's date of 
birth  Mr D didn't lose any identification with his card.
I can also see that someone was fairly frequently logging into Mr D's online banking around 
the time of the fraudulent transaction. Whoever accessed Mr D's online banking would have 
needed his online registration details, including his memorable information. Again, there's no 
explanation for how this information could have been obtained by someone else. So I think it 
most likely that Mr D was checking for when the credit had reached his account.
Ive considered carefully that  after the last undisputed transaction on 2 May  there were 
no card transactions on the account until 9 May. And this seems unusual bearing in mind the 
past activity on the account. But the balance on the account for this period was only just over 
£1. And, as it appears Mr Ds wages had stopped being paid by online bank transfer, there 
was no money in the account for Mr D to use. So I don't find the lack of card transactions is 
enough to evidence that Mr D had lost his card.
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr D knowing more about the transactions than 
he's told us.
Closure of the account
Following its investigation, Barclays decided to close Mr D's bank account. I find it did this in 
line with its terms and conditions.
Recording a CIFAS markerThe pattern of transactions is typical of an account holder allowing their account to be used 
by a third party for them to launder money through it  a term more commonly known as a 
money mule. If there was some evidence that Mr D had been coerced or threatened into 
allowing a third party to use his account in this way, I would expect Barclays to show some 
sympathy for him and, depending on the circumstances, it may not be appropriate to record 
a fraud marker. But Mr D maintains he knows nothing about the transactions and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest he was forced into allowing someone to carry out these 
transactions  I would have expected him to tell his parents and to report it to the police if 
this was the case. 
Overall, I think Barclays does have enough evidence to report this matter to the police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account that Mr D was young when these 
transactions happened and that he may not have realised the serious implications. Ive also 
considered the impact the CIFAS marker has had on him  and will continue to have on him. 
But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall conclusion. Ive found that the CIFAS marker is 
factually correct, so I cant ask Barclays to remove it.
I've not seen evidence to show that Barclays told Mr D it would not record a CIFAS marker. 
Mr D thinks Barclays delayed recording the marker because he was able to open and use an 
account with another bank for around a year. But I've seen evidence to show the marker was 
recorded shortly after it had concluded its investigation into the transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman