DRN-2252302
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed in its chargeback attempt and rejected his 
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a property.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr R made a successful bid at an auction for a property. He paid a deposit of 
£6,000 to the auction house, which I will call S, using his credit card. Subsequently it turned 
out that the seller didnt have the power of attorney necessary complete the sale and the 
purchase was abandoned. Mr R attempted to contact the seller, but with no success.
In August 2018 Mr R made a claim to HSBC and it made a chargeback claim to the 
recipients bank. This was rejected by S which said that it was Mr Rs responsibility to act as 
a prudent buyer and it set out a number of reasons, based on its terms and conditions why it 
didnt consider a refund was due. HSBC submitted the claim to arbitration with the card 
issuer, but that was also unsuccessful.
It considered a claim under section 75 and noted that the terms and conditions of the 
agreement stated the payment which was to cover Ss costs was not refundable. As such it 
couldnt establish that there had been a breach of contract and it rejected Mr Rs claim. It did 
accept that it hadnt handled the matter as well as it could and it offered Mr R £300 
compensation. It also agreed to extend his credit limit to £6,000 and to charge 0% interest 
for 23 months.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he seen no evidence that S had 
the responsibility to check the status of the seller and he could not identify any breach of 
contract. Mr R didnt agree and said he had not been given the documentation about the 
power of attorney until after he had paid the deposit. 
Our investigator contacted S which agreed that the sellers solicitor had been slow to submit 
the power of attorney paperwork. It accepted the failure of the deal to go through was not 
due to Mr R and it agreed to refund him £6,000.
Our investigator reviewed the role played by the bank in handling the claim. It explained that 
Mr R had told it there had been a shortage of documentation and it wasnt aware of the 
power of attorney issue. It also said that the chargeback regime was set up for relatively 
straightforward disputes and not for more complex legal matters.
Our investigator concluded the bank had not been wrong in how it pursued Mr Rs claim and 
agreed that the compensation it had offered for its service was fair. Mr R didnt agree and 
said he had spent a lot of time trying to get this matter resolved and it had cost him a lot 
more than £300. He felt he had been blackmailed by HSBC and he suggested he be paid 
£2,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the frustration Mr R has encountered in the last few years and I am pleased 
to note our investigator was able to obtain a refund for him. However, I dont consider I can 
uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
There are two elements to the complaint, the handling of the chargeback and the claim 
under section 75.
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesn't mean there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered by the card provider, not 
HSBC. The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it puts a request to the merchant's 
bank. But there are no guarantees the consumers bank will be able to recover the money 
through chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the claim is justified. 
HSBC took the information Mr R provided and made a chargeback claim based on that 
information. S, through its bank made a strong rebuttal of the claim. HSBC sent it to 
arbitration at a cost of some EUR 500 and the claim was once again rejected. HSBC has no 
power to alter that decision and it is outside its control. I dont believe it could have done any 
more in pursuit of the chargeback.
I turn now to the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 offers 
protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or 
services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of 
the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
After the chargeback had failed the bank considered section 75. However, S had argued that 
it had operated within its terms and conditions and no breach of contract had taken place. 
Given the information that had been given to it HSBC took a reasonable decision that there 
was no breach of contract. Only later when further details emerged did S agree to refund Mr 
R though I note it didnt accept there had been a breach of contract. 
On the face of the information provided to the bank by Mr R and by S didnt show there to be 
a breach of contract. The terms and conditions set out the responsibilities of the bidder in 
some detail and it presumes them to have taken legal advice and carried out due diligence 
on the proposed transaction. A shortage of documentation would not of itself mean that there 
had been any breach. 
However, when it became clear that the seller didnt have the legal authority to make the 
sale that was a different matter. In that situation the sale could not be completed and the 
contract was breached. I dont believe the bank was wrong not to probe further into what it 
had been told by Mr R. As it has pointed out this transaction was a relatively complex 
situation.
Overall, I cannot say that HSBC was wrong in the conclusion it reached. I have noted the 
delays and service issues which the bank has accepted were poor and I consider the £300 
offered is fair.My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £300 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman