DRN-4108111
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited is dealing with a claim she made under a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
Ms P made a claim for assistance with legal costs in pursuing an employment matter. 
Amtrust asked a firm of its panel of solicitors to provide an assessment on Ms Ps chances of 
being successful in her proposed action. It is a requirement of the policy that such action has 
more than a 50% chance of success.
The panel solicitor didnt think Ms Ps action had prospects of success (i.e, 50% or less) so 
Amtrust declined the claim. Ms P provided additional information and further assessments 
were provided. However overall, the panel solicitor remained of the opinion the action would 
unlikely be successful.
Ms P obtained an assessment from a solicitor of her choice which said they thought the 
proposed action did have prospects of success. As there was a conflict of opinion, a barrister 
was instructed to provide an assessment. They thought that some of the heads of claim 
Ms P wanted to pursue did have prospects, but others didnt.
Amtrust accepted Ms Ps claim and agreed rates with her chosen solicitors. However, it said 
it would only backdate costs to the date the positive barristers assessment was provided as 
this was the date cover was confirmed.
Ms P complained about this. She said her solicitors had previously advised her claim did 
have prospects and the barristers assessments simply served to confirm this. Therefore, 
she thought costs should be backdated to the date the positive solicitors opinion was 
provided. She confirmed action was ongoing during that time and she incurred costs in 
relation to preparing for it and attending hearings. Amtrust did not change its position, so Ms 
P brought her complaint to this service.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on 21 April 2023. I said I intended to uphold the complaint 
for the following reasons:
The policy terms say cover will be provided where a policyholder has more than 50% 
chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. There is nothing in the policy 
which says what will happen if there is a conflict of opinion between solicitors or what that 
may subsequently mean for the date cover operates from.
I think Amtrust acted reasonably here by asking for an opinion of a barrister. It is what this 
Service would usually suggest in circumstances such as this. However, I disagree in this 
case that the date of cover should only be backdated to the date that assessment was 
provided.
Ms P previously provided a positive assessment from her solicitor which confirmed they 
thought the claim had more than 50% chance of success. As Ms P has pointed out, the 
barristers opinion served to endorse that opinion.
Given the nature of the claim Ms P was pursuing and that action was taking place whilst the 
matter of policy cover was being resolved, I think it would be fair and reasonable to backdate 
cover to the point the solicitors provided the initial positive legal assessment.
As such I intend to uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct that Amtrust backdate cover to the 
point Ms P provided the positive legal assessment from her instructed solicitors. While I 
accept, technically Amtrust did not authorise the costs incurred during this time, given the 
underlying legal claim is covered as an insured event, I think Amtrust should cover any 
reasonable and necessary costs that were incurred in progressing the legal claim during that 
time.
Responses to my provisional findings
Amtrust responded saying it accepted my findings and would agree to backdate the cover to 
the date the positive solicitors assessment was received, 12 October 2021. It said it would 
need details of costs from Ms P to ensure they are proportionate before they can be fully 
authorised.
Ms P responded saying that she accepted my findings. But pointed out, had Amtrust agreed 
for her to use her own solicitors earlier then the positive assessment could also have been 
given even earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms for prospects of success would always needed to have been met first 
before Ms Ps freedom to choose a solicitor could have been considered. 
Ms P has said that had Amtrust agreed to change solicitor earlier, then the positive 
assessment could have been given earlier. However, during the time period Ms P is referring 
to, the panel solicitor had concluded Ms Ps case didnt have prospects of success and 
therefore there was no cover for Ms Ps claim.
While Ms P disagreed with the solicitors assessment it would always have been for her to 
arrange for an opinion to be sought from a different solicitor and presented to Amtrust  
something which she later went on to do. So, I dont agree that Amtrust acted incorrectly 
here, and I remain of the opinion that cover should be backdated to the point Ms P 
presented a positive solicitors assessment to Amtrust. And Amtrust is entitled to undertake 
any usual checks on the costs that have been incurred to ensure they are in line with the 
policy terms. 
For the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional decision. I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Amtrust should backdate cover to the point Ms P provided the positive legal assessment 
from her instructed solicitors. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. It should 
put things right as I have set out in the section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman