DRN-3319016
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1998 and 2001. Mr and Mrs S say Furness Building Society mis-sold them PPI. The policies 
covered Mr S alone, solely for involuntary unemployment.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator upheld part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. They thought that the cost and 
benefits of the PPI sold in 1998 hadnt been clearly disclosed to Mr and Mrs S and that if it 
had been, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought it. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint in relation to the policy which started in 2001 should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but queried the rationale for not upholding the complaint in 
relation to the 2001 sale, because they thought the same principles about disclosure of the 
cost and benefits applied.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision.
I reviewed the complaint and came to a different finding to the adjudicator. I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 February 2022 and invited all parties to provide me with their 
comments. Furness Building Society and Mr and Mrs Ss representative both confirmed they 
had received my provisional decision but had no further comments to make. As a result, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Mr final decision is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Furness Building Society made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out. Mr and Mrs S dont suggest that the policies were 
added without their knowledge or consent. The first 12 months of the cover was free with 
both policies, although in the first instance Mr Ss cover didnt start until July 1999 
because he wasnt eligible for it until he had been in six months continuous employment. 
Furness Building Society wrote to Mr and Mrs S when they had to start paying for the 
policy, reminding them that they had the right to cancel it - but they didnt. And in the 
case of the 2001 policy they completed a separate application form. 
Furness Building Society didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs S 
enough clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
Our adjudicator didnt think Furness Building Society did this well enough. They thought 
that the cost in relation to the first policy hadnt been disclosed adequately. And when the 
adjudicator first looked at it, it looked like the policy was very expensive for the benefit it 
provided. And so they thought if Mr and Mrs S had understood the cost and benefits 
properly that they wouldnt have bought that policy.
I first thought that the policy seemed expensive relative to the benefit, too. Especially 
when the policy they bought in 2001 seemed much more reasonably priced. So I asked 
Furness Building Society to look at this again. It transpires that there was an error in the 
information Furness Building Society gave this service. In fact, the figure Furness 
Building Society originally gave us included buildings insurance too. So whereas our 
adjudicator had initially thought that the policy cost £26.24 a month for £253.05 of 
monthly benefit in the event of a successful claim, it actually only cost £5.15. For some 
reason the cover was split into two elements. The second element cost £0.92 per month 
and covered a further £46.27 of their mortgage. And at these costs, I dont think Mr and 
Mrs S would have thought the PPI didnt offer them reasonable value for money. 
Its possible that other information Furness Building Society gave Mr and Mrs S about 
the PPI also wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it 
out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally 
wrong for Mr and Mrs S  for example Mr S wasnt affected by the significant exclusions 
on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Mr S had 
recently been made redundant when his employer went bust, so I think its likely that he 
would have been keen to avoid financial difficulties if something like that happened 
again. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had 
Furness Building Society done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI, both in 1998 and 2001. 
The policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I 
think the policies could have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their 
circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Furness Building Society should have 
disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and 
the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. .
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It follows that Furness Building Society does not 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman