DRN-3638559
The complaint
Miss L and Mr V complain about their insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Their complaint 
is about how AXA handled a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their 
property from a burst pipe.
AXA use agents to administer the policy. Reference to AXA includes these agents.
This decision only covers those aspects of complaint up to AXAs final response to Miss L 
and Mr Vs complaint to them. It doesnt cover other issues not included in AXAs final 
response (such as the costs incurred by Miss L and Mr V engaging their own loss adjuster, 
as well as other costs).
What happened
In November 2021 Miss L and Mr V returned home from work to find a bathroom pipe had 
burst, causing damage to their property. They contacted AXA the following day to make a 
claim for the damage. AXA appointed a surveyor (B) who inspected the damage a few days 
later. B took a sample of the underfloor tiles to check for asbestos, which was subsequently 
confirmed. B told Miss L and Mr V theyd arrange for the reinstatement work to be carried out 
or offer a cash settlement for Miss L and Mr V to arrange for the work to be carried out. B 
also said a separate contents team would assess the damage to furniture and other items.
 
Having not heard anything more, Miss L and Mr V chased AXA over the following weeks. 
They were told by the contents team it would be easier if they supplied a list of damaged 
furniture and other items, which they sent later that month. Having contacted the Contents 
Team to follow up, Miss L and Mr V were told the list was with B for approval. Anxious for 
confirmation of when the reinstatement work would begin and living in a damaged property 
(with potential asbestos exposure) Miss L and Mr V contacted AXA to complain about the 
delay. They also appointed their own loss adjuster to assist them, which subsequently led to 
an agreed settlement for the damaged contents and (sometime later) a settlement for the 
reinstatement of the property.
AXA partially upheld the complaint. In their final response they said attempts were made to 
progress the claim, but there had been a lack of response to Miss L and Mr Vs emails and 
updates. This added to their frustration at the incident. In recognition of the inconvenience 
caused to Miss L and Mr V, AXA paid £150 in compensation and an additional £25 goodwill 
gesture for not responding to their concerns in a timely way.
Miss L and Mr V then complained to this service. They felt AXAs payment for compensation 
and goodwill wasnt enough to cover what theyd paid out for their loss adjuster and other 
services and for the unnecessary stress theyd suffered. As well as having to remain in their 
property in its damaged condition.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AXA didnt need to do anything 
further (with particular focus on the issue of delays in AXA assessing and progressing the 
complaint). He concluded there had been a failure on the part of AXA (including their agents) 
to keep Miss L and Mr V informed during the claim. He also thought there had been an 
unnecessary delay in agreeing a settlement for the damaged contents, due to a 
communication error between AXA and their contractors. While acknowledging the delays 
would have caused trouble and upset to Miss L and Mr V, the investigator thought AXAs 
award of £150 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Miss L and Mr V disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They said that while theyd received their contents 
settlement, they were still awaiting their buildings settlement and had to begin some work on 
their property (some five months after the incident). 
In my findings, while I broadly agreed with our investigators conclusions, I thought AXA 
should pay a higher amount of compensation than theyd awarded (£150). Given the 
unnecessary delays in progressing the claim and Miss L and Mr V consequently having to 
remain in their damaged property for longer, I didnt think £150 was sufficient. Taking all 
these points into account, I thought £300 would be fair and reasonable.
Because I disagreed with the investigators conclusion on the level of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Miss L and Mr V.
The key issues in Miss L and Mr Vs complaint are, firstly, the delays in AXA assessing their 
claim for the damage from the burst pipe. The second issue is how AXA have handled the 
claim, including how theyve responded to Miss L and Mr V when theyve contacted them to 
see what progress has been made and when theyve provided updates. In considering both 
issues, Ive looked at what happened up to, and including, AXAs final response in February 
2022. As set out earlier, Ive not considered issues after this date or those issues not 
covered in AXAs final response.
On the first issue, looking at the timeline of events, AXA initially responded quickly to Miss L 
and Mr V reporting the burst pipe. Bs surveyor visited the property to assess the damage 
within four days of the incident being reported. Bs report sets out the extent of the damage 
caused by the burst pipe, extending to the whole of the property (a ground floor maisonette). 
B also identified a potential issue (subsequently confirmed) with the presence of asbestos 
that would require specialist work to address. 
While the initial response is what Id have expected, the subsequent handling of the claim 
falls short of the standard Id expect. AXA say attempts were made to progress the claim, but 
acknowledge issues in their final response, awarding £150 compensation (and a further £25 
as a goodwill gesture).  
However, looking at the timeline of events described by Miss L and Mr V, together with 
AXAs case notes, its clear there were delays in assessing  in particular  the contents 
claim and reaching a settlement. While there was an initial misunderstanding about what 
was going to happen, Miss L and Mr V provided a schedule of damaged items towards the 
end of November2021. However, a settlement wasnt authorised until towards the end of 
February 2022. There were some communication issues between AXA and their agents and 
contractors, and AXAs case notes acknowledge unnecessary delays due to poor handling 
and understanding of processes by AXAs contractors. While claims do need time to be 
assessed and validated, Ive concluded the process took longer than it should have done. As well as causing frustration and stress to Miss L and Mr V, it also appears this affected the 
buildings settlement and associated reinstatement work. Thats because the damaged 
contents couldnt be removed until the settlement had been agreed, which in turn meant 
delays in the stripping out of the property (and the specialist removal of the asbestos) which 
would have delayed the reinstatement work. This meant Miss L and Mr V had to remain in 
the damaged property for longer than they otherwise would have done. That would have 
been stressful for them, particularly given the damage appears to have affected most (if not 
all) of their property and their concerns about the presence of asbestos. 
 
On the second issue, AXA have accepted they didnt respond to their concerns in a timely 
way. They also acknowledge delays in communication and lack of updated to Miss L and Mr 
V. Looking at the exchanges between them and Miss L and Mr V and AXAs case notes, I 
agree thats the case. While complaint handling isnt a regulated activity that falls within the 
remit of this service (unless relevant to the complaint issues) I think its reasonable for AXA 
to recognise this through a goodwill gesture (£25).
Miss L and Mr V, when making their complaint to this service, pointed to additional costs and 
fees theyve incurred following the incident. Theyve appointed their own loss adjuster and 
Ive seen evidence of other costs associated with the incident and the claim. While these 
arent (as set out above) covered by this decision, Id expect AXA to consider them as part of 
their assessment of the claim.
 
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what AXA need to do to put things right. 
AXA paid Miss L and Mr V £150 in compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused to 
Miss L and Mr V. However, given the points Ive made above about the unnecessary delays 
in progressing the claim and Miss L and Mr V consequently having to remain in their 
damaged property for longer, I dont think this is sufficient. Taking all these points into 
account, I think £300 for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Miss L and Mr Vs 
complaint. I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Miss L and Mr V £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss L and Mr V responded to say they appreciated this service looking at their complaint 
and that the provisional decision upheld their complaint. They also said that while AXA had 
issued a settlement, they were concerned at being out of pocket for the costs theyd incurred 
for their loss adjuster (which they said theyd had to engage due to what they felt was a lack 
of urgency or communication from AXA). They provided copies of two invoices from their 
loss adjuster, which they wanted AXA to settle (in addition to the £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience). 
They also said theyd had to cancel elements of their wedding to pay for works on their 
property, which they thought should have been covered by AXAs settlement. 
AXA responded to say they agreed with the outcome in the provisional decision. They also 
requested the final decision made it clear whether the proposed £300 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience was a total amount (including the £150 theyd already paid) or an 
additional amount to the £150 theyd paid.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Miss L and Mr V.
Taking AXAs response first, I can confirm that the intention of my provisional decision was 
that they should pay a total £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. So, if AXA 
have already paid £150 in compensation, they should pay an additional £150.
On the points raised by Miss L and Mr V, my provisional decision made it clear the decision 
only covered those aspects of complaint up to AXAs final response to Miss L and Mr Vs 
complaint to them. It didnt cover other issues not included in AXAs final response (such as 
the costs incurred by Miss L and Mr V engaging their own loss adjuster, as well as other 
costs). But the provisional decision went on to note that while these costs werent covered by 
this decision, Id expect AXA to consider them as part of their assessment of the claim. So, 
Id expect AXA to do so and engage with Miss L and Mr V. If Miss L and Mr V were to be 
unhappy with the outcome of that process, they could make a further complaint (to AXA, in 
the first instance).
 
Taking these points together, the conclusions set out in my provisional decision havent 
changed, so my final decision is the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss L and Mr Vs complaint. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Miss L and Mr V a total of £300 for distress and inconvenience (that is, an 
additional £150 on top of the £150 theyve already paid).
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss L and Mr V accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman