DRN-4184224
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the service Lloyds Bank PLC provided when he wanted to activate 
his dormant account.
What happened
Mr Rs account was deemed dormant because it had been inactive, which Mr R accepts. 
However, in order to activate the account he needed to send certified documents to Lloyds. 
Mr R says he wanted to speak to the relevant team first.
 
Lloyds provided Mr R with a telephone number for the team he could speak to, but this 
number had been out of use for some time. Mr R is unhappy about the length of time he 
spent on the phone trying to speak to the right department and the lack of communication 
when the account was reactivated. Hes also unhappy about the length of time its taken to 
respond and acknowledge his complaint correspondence.
Lloyds accept it gave Mr R wrong information regarding the telephone number and in its final 
response letter said it would pay him £50. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged the frustration Mr R 
experienced in being given the wrong telephone number but thought the offer of £50 was 
fair. She explained the points Mr R raised about the delays of Lloyds complaint handling 
were outside of our jurisdiction. 
Mr R remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said Mr Rs account became dormant and they marked it as such. Mr R accepts the 
reasons for the account becoming dormant, and therefore this is not something thats in 
dispute.
In late 2022 Mr R contacted Lloyds as he wanted to reactivate his account. Lloyds asked him 
to provide certified documents as part of its process for making the account active again. I 
accept Mr R didnt like the procedure and I understand why. But I find it fair and reasonable 
that Lloyds wanted to satisfy themselves that it was genuinely Mr R who was getting in touch 
to make this request. 
I understand Mr R wanted to speak to Lloyds to see whether he could send the documents 
another way. Mr R wanted to confirm the correct address because he says this wasnt 
available online and although he got this information over the phone at one stage, he was 
worried hed misheard it. Mr R explained he was concerned about the consequences of his 
personal information getting lost in the post particularly as he was overseas. Lloyds gave 
Mr R a phone number for the team which wasnt applicable and he was unable to speak to 
the team.
My understanding is that Mr R did send the required documents to Lloyds by post and his 
account was reactivated. Mr R says he didnt receive notification of this. It seems Lloyds did 
notify Mr R but in any event Mr R has said he became aware that his account had been 
reactivated.
Mr R has also said his certified documents havent been returned to him. However, Lloyds 
has said its not part of their process to return certified copies of documents. I can 
understand why Mr R would like his documents returned to him, but they arent originals, so I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds not to return them. 
Mr R is unhappy about the length of time its taken Lloyds to respond and acknowledge his 
complaint correspondence, although he seemed to accept this was out of our jurisdiction. As 
our investigator explained, this is about complaint handling, which falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. As such Ive not been able to comment on this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
Overall, this case has merit. Lloyds accept it gave Mr R a phone number which wasnt used 
by the department Mr R needed to speak to. Lloyds apologised for this error in its final 
response letter. Lloyds also paid Mr R £50 for the level of customer service that they 
provided. I think this fairly reflects the impact it had on Mr R and Im not persuaded it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman