DRN-4206495
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) handled his claim 
and the value it gave him for his car following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with Haven covering his car. 
His car suffered a fire and was damaged.
Haven assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare it a write-
off and assessed its market value as £1,175.
Mr R didnt agree with this valuation, and he complained to Haven. It increased the valuation 
to £2,325 using three trade guides to arrive at a market value.
Mr R remained unhappy with Havens valuation and brought his complaint to this service. He 
says his cars value is £5,500 to £8,000. He complained about the time hed spent on hold 
waiting for a response from Haven during his claim and the service hed had.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt think it would be upheld. She thought 
the value itd offered him was in line with this services approach using trade guides and she 
didnt think the hold times were excessive.
Mr R didnt agree with the view and asks that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file of evidence, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why as I 
appreciate this will be a disappointment to him.
Ive said above about how Haven arrived at the valuation of Mr Rs car.
Its approach fits with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations 
for vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Rs car and Ive found these values, provided by different trade 
guides, for the month his car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle with the same 
specification and mileage:
Company A: £2,230
Company B: £2,066
Company C: £2,675
Ive looked at Havens valuation of his car and I can see it has offered him £2,325 which is in 
the range of values listed above. Wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair if it is in 
the range of the guides.
I can see Mr R has provided evidence that the value hes been offered doesnt represent the 
market value of his car, but what hes sent shows different mileage. I can see from his 
evidence that Mr Rs car was a higher-mileage example, and many of the examples hes 
sent to this service are markedly lower. The mileage of a vehicle is a considerable factor 
when considering the market value.
Mr R had also said the car was in very good condition and had significant and recent 
maintenance done on it, such as the timing belt replacement and an intercooler replacement. 
But I dont agree that this changes the value of his car as its maintenance of the sort that 
might reasonably be expected in a higher-mileage vehicle. 
I can appreciate Mr Rs frustration with this, but its usual that insurers would seek to reduce 
market value if the maintenance had not been done. So it follows that I think the market 
value of his car has been fairly assessed by Haven. 
Ive also thought about the service Mr R had during his claim. When Mr R approached this 
service he made some additional points of complaint about this. Haven hadnt provided him 
with its final response, but during the investigation of his complaint by this service I can see 
that Haven did respond. I think that means I can consider the service element of his 
complaint here.
Mr R said he spent several hours on the phone trying to get through to Haven. I asked Mr R 
to send me details of these calls but he refused to send me the information. I asked Haven 
for the details and it sent me details of multiple calls including the call recordings. 
It said it didnt have evidence that Mr R had spent additional hours on calls waiting to get 
through to its call operators. It also asked Mr R for details about the numbers he said hed 
called but he wasnt willing to provide this.
Having listened to the calls between Mr R and Haven I can understand why Mr R said hes 
been kept waiting for a considerable period of time. There are a significant number of calls 
made between the parties, and in particular several on one day. Some of the calls are 
lengthy and, having listened to them, I cant reasonably say that the length of the calls was 
mainly due to Havens actions.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Haven has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how its handled Mr Rs claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman