DRN-4462233
The complaint
Mr D complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase declined his application 
for an account on more than one occasion.
What happened
Mr D says that his application for a Chase account was declined. He thought this was due to 
logging in and out issues with the Chase application (app), so he reapplied for the account, 
but his application was declined again. Mr D made a complaint to Chase.
Chase did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said that they tried to call him for more 
information on three separate days between 26-28 March 2023, but they couldnt reach him. 
They said that using the information they had, they raised an appeal case about this decision 
but unfortunately his appeal was declined. Chase said their decisions are also based on 
information they hold from credit agencies, and they also use information provided to them 
by other third parties such as UK fraud prevention services, that could be affecting his 
eligibility. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. He said that Chase has informed him of a 
potential solution, of which it appears a component of the process requires Mr Ds consent. 
He said while Chase attempted to contact Mr D, they did not make it clear in their final 
response that they can potentially have a solution to the issue Mr D faces. He said Chase 
hadnt invited Mr D to contact them in their final response to discuss a potential resolution, 
and given the distress Mr D had, he felt Chase should pay Mr D £50 compensation and he 
encouraged Mr D to contact Chase to discuss reapplying for the account if he wished to do 
so.
Chase asked for an ombudsman to review Mr Ds complaint. They said there was no bank 
error with the declined applications as these were declined correctly. But as an exception for 
Mr D, based on the issues hes had, they have said if Mr D would like to reapply with Chase, 
then he can get in contact with them as they have left a note on their system with an update.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make Mr D aware that I wont be able to give him the exact reason his applications 
have been declined previously. I know this may be frustrating for Mr D, but Chases account 
application and security measures are commercially sensitive, and they are not obliged to 
divulge these to a customer or potential customer.
I have listened to a call Mr D had with Chase after he had checked the information with the 
credit reference agencies and a fraud prevention service, where he appealed the recent 
decline. The call handler logged the appeal for Mr D.
I can confirm that Chase did follow their process in declining these applications. So I cant 
say they made an error here. I know the experience of the declined applications was 
frustrating for Mr D, and I can sympathise with his position here, but as Chase made no error 
in declining the applications, then Im not persuaded that Chase have made any errors which 
warrant any compensation to be paid.
But what Chase has said they might be able to do is to make an exception if Mr D still wants 
an account with them, then he can get in contact with them, as they have left a note on their 
system with an update. I cant guarantee that the account could be opened for Mr D as this 
would be a decision that is ultimately Chases decision to make, but Im satisfied that they 
are looking at an exceptions process to their normal procedures. 
As this is an exceptions process based on the complaint Mr D brought to our service, I cant 
say that this is something that should have been brought up on an earlier phone call he had 
with Chase, as the staff he had spoken to were following their process. Chase are trying to 
look at an exception since he brought his complaint to our service, and this is when Chase 
said when they received correspondence from our service they attempted to contact Mr D to 
see if they could use an exception, but they were unable to contact him. This is why this 
wasnt included in their final response to him, as the exception was made after he brought 
his complaint to our service. 
So Im persuaded that this was why they told our service about the exception so we could 
make Mr D aware of this if he wished to contact them to reapply for an account with them 
based on the note they have now added to their system. So Mr D may wish to contact Chase 
to reapply  and this would need to be his decision to do this, but I dont intend to ask Chase 
to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr D did not respond to the provisional decision. Chase responded to the 
provisional decision, and they said they had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman