DRN-3480480
The complaint
Mr R complains that his financial adviser, Sandringham Financial Partners Limited 
(Sandringham), failed to tell him about the Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA). He 
says this led to him inadvertently triggering the MPAA, which has limited his ability to invest 
money in any of his pensions in the future.
What happened
Mr R said he contacted Sandringham in 2018 to get advice about one of his pensions. He 
said he initially intended to draw down the entire pension pot as a lump sum. But after talking 
to Sandringham he decided to just take his tax-free lump sum from the pension plan. He left 
the rest of the funds in the plan. 
Mr R had a further meeting with Sandringham in 2019. His circumstances had changed as 
he had a new job where he benefited from a total of 21% of his salary being contributed to 
his pension. Mr R said he again told Sandringham, as he had during the 2018 meeting, that 
he would be taking a further sum from his pension fund in the 2019/20 tax year. He said that 
he understood that he would pay income tax on that amount. He said he wasnt advised 
about the existence, or the implications, of the MPAA. 
Mr R said that later on, he drew further funds from his pension plan. He said he did this 
directly with the pension plan provider. This triggered the MPAA.
The MPAA was introduced on 6 April 2015. With the advent of greater pension freedoms at 
that time, more people were flexibly accessing their pensions and potentially then adding 
money back into the pension, obtaining further tax relief at a later date. To restrict this, the 
MPAA was introduced. It was first set at £10,000 each year. The government reduced the 
MPAA to £4,000 on contributions made from 6 April 2017.
The MPAA doesnt apply if a consumer only takes the 25% tax free cash sum out of their 
pension but no income. Therefore it wasnt triggered when Mr R took his tax-free cash from 
his pension plan. But it was triggered as soon as Mr R drew further funds from the same 
pension plan. 
Because of this Mr R cant now make further contributions to a money purchase plan in 
excess of the current MPAA without incurring additional tax penalties.
Unhappy that Sandringham hadnt warned him about the MPAA, Mr R complained.
Sandringham issued their final response letter in March 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They didnt agree that they were responsible, by action or inaction, for the MPAA 
being triggered. They said Mr R had arranged the further withdrawal of income - which had 
triggered the MPAA - from his pension plan without their involvement. They said the provider 
of the pension plan had provided Mr R with risk warnings. They said that although they 
couldnt evidence that theyd explained and discussed the MPAA with Mr R, they were 
satisfied that they had warned him about tax in a more general sense. Therefore they felt he 
wouldve been aware that making any further withdrawal from his pension plan after hed 
taken his tax-free cash wouldve had tax consequences.
Unhappy, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator felt that his complaint 
should be upheld. She felt that Sandringham had an obligation to ensure Mr R was aware of 
the tax implications of his actions. And she felt that it was foreseeable that Mr R was likely to 
take further funds from his pension plan. She didnt consider that Sandringham had 
discussed the MPAA in any way. She felt that if they had, there would be a record of it. Our 
investigator didnt feel that the pension providers risk warnings about the MPAA allowed 
Sandringham not to provide Mr R with specific advice on the MPAA themselves. And she 
also considered that the pension providers warnings were only given after Mr R had made 
the decision to withdraw the further funds from his pension, at which point the MPAA was 
already in force. She felt that to put things right, Sandringham and Mr R should calculate the 
extra payments (ie the amount of tax that was caused by this mistake) made into all of his 
pension between the time he triggered the MPAA and the date that this complaint is closed. 
She also felt that simple interest at 8% each year should be added to the calculation.
Mr R accepted our investigators findings. Sandringham did not. They made the following 
points:
It wasnt disputed that Mr R acted independently when drawing further funds from his 
pension plan.
There was no evidence or assertion that Sandringham were aware of the withdrawal 
until after Mr R had instigated it.
Mr R didnt seek advice from them on the transaction in question.
By making Sandringham liable for this action, they felt that any independent action 
Mr R might take could later be the source of a claim against them, as they hadnt 
specifically warned him (in writing) against it. They didnt think this was fair. 
While they accepted it wasnt the pension providers job to advise Mr R, they said 
they did tell him about the MPAA. They felt this shouldve been a reasonable trigger 
for Mr R to pause to receive advice or to investigate matters himself. They said that 
Mr R had proceeded with the withdrawal despite having been told about the MPAA. 
They felt that if he hadnt understood what it meant for him after the pension 
providers risk warning call, he shouldve sought further advice. They didnt think they 
should be held responsible for a transaction they were never asked about.
Sandringham felt that their previous advice - to withdraw the tax-free cash only  
showed that theyd changed Mr Rs course of action from drawing the entire fund and 
suffering the resultant tax consequences. 
They felt that the MPAA wasnt relevant to any of the advice theyd given Mr R as 
they hadnt recommended taking funds from the taxable pot. 
They also didnt agree that Mr Rs actions were reasonably foreseeable. They felt 
the fact find showed that Mr R would make expenditure savings after using his tax-
free cash to repay his loan. And that this would allow him to carry out the actions hed 
told them about. They said there was no mention of taking further pension lump 
sums. And therefore it was not reasonably foreseeable that Mr R would make 
further pension withdrawals.
They acknowledged that this service couldnt rely on their recollection of events. But 
felt it would be unfair if we gave any greater weight to Mr Rs recollection.As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 April 2019. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I acknowledge that it wouldve been good practice 
for Sandringham to have explicitly discussed the MPAA at the 2019 meeting when they 
became aware that pension contributions in excess of the MPAA were being made on Mr 
Rs behalf. But I dont agree with our investigator that the pension providers risk warnings 
didnt provide enough information for Mr R to have taken steps to cancel his request to 
withdraw the additional funds. Ill explain why.
Before I start, Id like to confirm that my provisional decision is based on the evidence this 
service has been provided with. While I acknowledge that both Mr R and Sandringham have 
shared their recollections of the events leading up to the triggering of the MPAA, Ive based 
my decision on the documented evidence Ive been provided with.
The crux of this complaint is whether Sandringham shouldve made Mr R aware of the 
potential impact of the MPAA. Mr Rs position is that if they had made him aware, he 
wouldnt have made the additional withdrawal from his pension plan which triggered the 
MPAA. Sandringhams position is that, while they cant evidence that they specifically 
discussed the MPAA with Mr R, they did make him aware of tax implications on pension 
withdrawals. They also say that they couldnt have known Mr R would make a further 
withdrawal from his pension plan without seeking their advice first. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I consider that although Ive not seen written evidence that 
Sandringham explicitly made Mr R aware of the MPAA, he did in fact become aware in time 
to stop the transaction which triggered it. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to hold Sandringham responsible for the impact of the MPAA on Mr R. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, there was no specific reason for Sandringham to have explicitly 
covered the MPAA during their 2018 meeting with Mr R. I say this because at that time, Mr R 
was only making a 3% pension contribution. And he was recorded as having no need for 
further pension withdrawals. So there was no reason for Sandringham to consider that Mr R 
would trigger the MPAA as he didnt appear to be planning any further pension withdrawals. 
And even if he had made further pension withdrawals, his pension contributions were well 
under the MPAA. 
However, from what Ive seen, I think it wouldve been helpful if Sandringham had discussed 
the MPAA with Mr R during their 2019 review meeting. I say this because Mr R was 
recorded as having a new job with a 21% total pension contribution being made on his 
behalf. This level of contributions took him over the MPAA. So although Ive seen no written 
evidence that Mr R planned on making further pension withdrawals, I consider it wouldve 
been good practice for Sandringham to have explained the MPAA anyway on the basis of 
the level of the ongoing pension contributions being made on Mr Rs behalf.
Although Ive noted that good practice wouldve led to Sandringham explicitly covering the 
MPAA with Mr R during the 2019 review meeting, I dont consider that the fact that they 
didnt do so led to Mr R inadvertently triggering the MPAA. Therefore I dont hold them 
responsible for any of the consequences after it was triggered. Ill explain why. 
Mr Rs pension provider confirmed to this service that the additional pension withdrawal he 
requested in June 2019 left his account on 13 June 2019  a week after the Risk Warnings call. I asked Mr R if hed asked his pension provider to stop the withdrawal after he heard 
about the MPAA on 6 June 2019. Hed already shared his recollections about the risk 
warning call with this service. He said:
"It was a 20 min approx phone call I made to arrange a withdrawal from my pension. 
Towards the end of this conversation, maybe 18 mins, I was told that because I had 
withdrawn money from my pension the MPAA had been activated. I wish to make it clear 
that this was the first time I had heard of the MPAA, and at the time I was not aware of the 
existence or the implications of activating the MPAA. I was not advised regarding the MPAA 
at any time by my financial advisor."
Mr R told this service that he didnt ask his pension provider to stop the withdrawal. He said 
that hed told Sandringham at both the 2018 and 2019 meetings that he wanted to buy a car 
using his tax-free cash and a further withdrawal from his pension fund in the tax year 
2019/20. He said this was why he continued with the withdrawal from his pension provider, 
as hed already purchased the car. 
I also asked Mr R if hed called Sandringham for advice straight after the Risk Warnings call. 
I wouldve expected him to have done so immediately after hed found out about the MPAA. 
He said hed sent a text message and spoke to his adviser after hed sent that. And he said 
that Sandringham were aware that his pension contributions exceeded the MPAA. He said 
that from his own research into the MPAA, he didnt consider that the activation of the MPAA 
was reversible. And that when hed spoken to Sandringham after hed sent the text he wasnt 
advised to stop the withdrawal, so hed assumed it was too late.
Although Mr R recalled that hed sent the text message to Sandringham on the same day as 
the Risk Warnings call  6 June 2019  he actually sent it on 24 June 2019. Ive seen the 
text as Sandringham were able to provide a copy of it. Therefore, from the available 
evidence, it appears that Mr R took no timely mitigating steps to try to stop the withdrawal 
from his pension scheme, even though he said hed become very concerned about the 
implications of triggering the MPAA. 
Theres no evidence that the MPAA was mentioned at either the 2018 or 2019 meetings 
between Sandringham and Mr R. So even though I accept Mr Rs statement that hed never 
heard of the MPAA until the Risk Warnings call on 6 June 2019, I still need to satisfy myself 
that he took reasonable steps to mitigate the situation he found himself in before I can fairly 
hold Sandringham responsible for the triggering of the MPAA. From what Ive seen, he didnt 
take any mitigating steps other than to do independent research on the MPAA. And he didnt 
text Sandringham until 18 days had passed. Had he called Sandringham for advice as soon 
as possible after the Risk Warning calls, Im satisfied he couldve stopped the withdrawal. 
This wouldve meant the MPAA was never triggered. I say this because I asked Mr Rs 
pension provider to confirm their process. 
They told me the following. Mr R requested a withdrawal on a non-advised basis on 5 June 
2019. They called him back on 6 June 2019 to take the details for the one-off withdrawal. At 
this point he wouldve been given the risk warnings, including the MPAA warning. The 
provider authorised the withdrawal on 7 June 2019. They said the sell down completed on 
13 June 2019. And that this was the date the payment was issued to Mr R. They confirmed 
that a customer could stop the withdrawal request. And that they wouldve been able to 
cancel (and reverse the sell down of units) the request if Mr R had contacted them before 
the payment was issued on 13 June 2019.
As I mentioned earlier, Sandringham were able to provide a copy of the text messages Mr R 
sent them in June 2019. They confirmed that theyd called Mr R the day after receiving the 
text about the MPAA on 24 June 2019. But the call recording wasnt available. They said that by the time theyd spoken to Mr R on 25 June 2019, the MPAA had already been triggered. 
And there was no action they could take to change this. 
Sandringham also said that theyd sent Mr R contact details for his pension provider on 4 
June 2019. They said this was because they felt that Mr R was intent on taking further funds 
from his pension. They said that from the start of the advice process Mr R had wanted to 
cash in all of his pension. But theyd told him that they couldnt advise him to take the whole 
pension as cash. And that theyd advised him to only take the available tax-free cash. 
Sandringham said theyd given him the pension providers contact details on 4 June 2019 as 
they felt that providers pre-approval process wouldnt approve Mr Rs request for an 
additional withdrawal. 
Sandringham had previously told this service that they accepted it wasnt the pension 
providers role to advise Mr R. But they felt that when that provider had told Mr R about the 
MPAA, this shouldve been a reasonable trigger for him to pause to receive advice or do 
further independent research. And that if he hadnt understood what it meant for him, he 
shouldve sought further advice. Sandringham didnt think they should be held responsible 
for a transaction they were never asked about.
From what Ive seen, Sandringham had more than one opportunity to explicitly tell Mr R 
about the MPAA. They couldve told him during the 2019 meeting, when he informed them 
that contributions totalling more than the MPAA were being made to his pension. And they 
also couldve told him when he asked them for his pension providers contact details. 
Sandringham have said that they felt that he was intent on taking further funds from his 
pension. So there was a clear indication that he may take actions that they said were 
against their previous advice. Good practice wouldve been to explain the implications of 
those potential future actions clearly and explicitly. 
However, the evidence shows that Mr R had a week after hearing the risk warnings about 
the triggering of the MPAA in which he couldve cancelled his withdrawal request. I consider 
that this is sufficient time for him to have contacted Sandringham for advice. And if he had, 
Im satisfied that Sandringham wouldve explained the implications of triggering the MPAA. 
As Mr R didnt take any timely mitigating steps, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold 
Sandringham responsible for the consequences of his decision to make an additional 
pension withdrawal without their advice. I do acknowledge that Mr R said he didnt realise he 
couldve stopped his withdrawal request. But I consider that he shouldve at least have tried.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied that he couldve taken steps to 
ensure he didnt trigger the MPAA after the risk warnings call. I say this despite having no 
evidence that Sandringham ever informed him about the MPAA. As Mr R had time to take 
steps which I consider couldve prevented the impact of triggering the MPAA, I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint. And therefore I dont intend to ask Sandringham to take any further 
action.
Response to my provisional decision
Sandringham did reply to my provisional decision. 
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. He made the following points:
He said hed made it clear at his initial meeting with his adviser in 2018 that he 
intended to withdraw a further amount  after hed taken his 25% tax-free cash - from 
his pension in the 2019/2020 tax year. So he felt it was completely foreseeable that 
he would make a further withdrawal.He said hed repeated to his adviser at the 2019 meeting that he wanted to withdraw 
a further amount from his pension.
He felt the MPAA wouldve been part of any advice given to someone reviewing their 
pension arrangements. But said he wasnt advised about the MPAA at either the 
2018 or 2019 meetings, or in any other advice or literature that he received from his 
adviser.
He said that if hed been advised about the MPAA in 2018 he wouldve had plenty of 
time to review his decision to withdraw further funds from his pension.
He said that if hed known the implications of the MPAA he wouldnt have made the 
decision to withdraw further funds. And therefore he wouldnt have contacted his 
pension provider. And the MPAA wouldnt have been activated.
He said that he went into the 2019 meeting with his adviser thinking that the only tax 
implications of withdrawing further funds from his pension would be the deduction of 
income tax. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge all of Mr Rs points. But consider that I took most of them into account in my 
provisional decision. 
While theres no evidence that the MPAA was mentioned at either the 2018 or 2019 
meetings, I dont consider that Mr R took any mitigating steps - other than doing independent 
research on the MPAA - after his pension provider made him aware of it. As I said in my 
provisional decision, if Mr R had called Sandringham for advice as soon as possible after the 
Risk Warning calls, Im satisfied he couldve stopped the withdrawal. This wouldve meant 
the MPAA was never triggered. 
Theres also no evidence that Mr R made it clear to his adviser that he intended to withdraw 
a further amount from his pension. So while I agree with Mr R that it was reasonable to 
expect his adviser to have mentioned the MPAA to him, the fact that he did become aware of 
it in time to stop the transaction which triggered it means I cant reasonably hold 
Sandringham responsible for the impact of the MPAA on Mr R. 
Having carefully considered all of Mr Rs points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman