DRN-2693263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They say that it hasnt 
treated them fairly by refusing them new interest rates and keeping them on the standard 
variable rate (SVR). They say that as a result theyve overpaid interest.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a mortgage with Santander. It had reverted to the SVR, and 
Mr and Mrs F say they contacted Santander to discuss taking further borrowing and also 
putting the mortgage on a new interest rate.
Mr and Mrs F say Santander told them they werent eligible for either further borrowing or a 
new interest rate because their mortgage term would expire when they were 85 years old, 
but Santanders maximum age was 75. It would not let them make any changes to their 
mortgage unless the term was shortened to end by the time they were 75. Mr and Mrs F say 
they asked about a rate again about a year later, and were told the same thing. 
Mr and Mrs F cant remember exactly when these conversations happened, but they 
remember having two conversations with Santander. And when Santander said it had 
records of them contacting it in 2012 and 2013, Mr and Mrs F agreed that that sounded like 
the right dates. 
Mr and Mrs F asked again about a new rate in 2018, and this time Santander agreed a new 
rate. They say they were told their ages werent a factor in applying for a new rate  and 
never had been. There should have been no barrier to them being given a new rate before 
2018.
Mr and Mrs F complained. They said they had been told they werent eligible for new rates  
but it turns out that wasnt correct. They said that as a result theyve paid the SVR for a long 
time, when they should have had a much lower interest rate.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt have recordings of the calls in 2012 
and 2013 due to the passage of time. But it said its notes showed that the 2012 discussion 
was about a credit card application which wasnt proceeded with. It said there was no 
discussion of the mortgage. But there was nothing to prevent Mr and Mrs F taking a new 
interest rate. 
And it said they contacted Santander in 2013, but this was just an initial enquiry to make an 
appointment and Mr and Mrs F didnt make an appointment to discuss a new rate. 
Santander said there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs F had asked for a new rate and been 
refused. When they did apply in 2018, they were given a new rate. It was their responsibility 
to ask for a new rate; when they did ask, in 2018, they were given a new rate. It said it had 
sent them statements each year, and included within the statements was information about 
how to apply for a new rate.
Our investigator was persuaded that, on balance, Mr and Mrs F had asked for new rates and 
were turned down. So he said their mortgage should be reworked as if Mr and Mrs F had 
been on interest rate products between 2012 and 2018. And Santander should pay them 
£250 compensation. Santander didnt agree with that and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
I took a different view to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to allow the 
parties to comment on my thinking. I said:
I note that Santander has consented to us considering the whole complaint, even 
though part of it relates to events that happened more than six years before Mr and 
Mrs F complained.
Theres very limited evidence about what happened here. Mr and Mrs F recall 
contacting Santander to ask about new interest rates, and recall that at least one of 
those conversations also involved a discussion about possible further borrowing. 
Santander has records of discussions with Mr and Mrs F in 2012 and 2013. But its 
notes about those discussions are very limited, and call recordings are no longer 
available.
The notes of the discussion in October 2012 read, in full:
6012 RET ANMF Mtge Rate Sale completed
Three hours later there is a note that reads 
Credit Agreement Sent Awaiting Signed Credit Agreement
And in May 2013
Abandoned Sale has now been abandoned in sales portal
In September 2013, there is a note that Mr or Mrs F called to request a branch 
appointment. But no appointment was ever made, because  according to the notes 
 Mrs F wasnt at home when Santander called to arrange it.
Other than that, there is no record of any contact between Mr and Mrs F and 
Santander between 2009 (when the term was extended) and 2016, when it seems 
Mrs F called to ask when the mortgage was first taken out.
Santander has given various explanations for the discussion in 2012. It has 
suggested that it was a credit card application. Or it has suggested that there was a 
discussion about a new rate, but with a different customer and wrongly added to Mr 
and Mrs Fs customer profile.
Our investigator thought the 2012 entry was evidence that Mr and Mrs F had 
contacted Santander to discuss a mortgage rate at that time.
But in response, Santander said it couldnt have been  because the phrase sale 
completed, that would mean Mr and Mrs F had booked a rate which would result in 
mortgage paperwork being issued and sent out to them for them to sign and return. 
However, Santander said, as there was no note of any specific rate being offered, 
and no evidence of a product offer or other paperwork being generated, it couldnt 
have happened  so this must be an entry relating to a different customer wrongly 
placed on Mr and Mrs Fs paperwork.Thats a possibility. But it seems to me that there are other possibilities, which are 
more likely.
Mrs F has a recollection of a discussion with Santander, though shes not sure of the 
date she believes it was some years ago and 2012 is, she thinks, likely. She recalls 
asking for further borrowing and asking for a new interest rate  and being told that 
wasnt possible because of the age at which their term ended.
One possibility, therefore, is that Mrs F is right about that and this note is the sole 
surviving record of this conversation. But that wouldnt explain why the note reads 
sale completed and three hours later a credit agreement was sent out. 
Another possibility is that Mrs F is right that there was a discussion and further 
borrowing was ruled out. But a new rate was agreed and a product offer sent out. 
This would explain why the entry reads mtge rate sale completed and is followed by 
the dispatch of a credit agreement. 
I think this is the more likely explanation. Given Mrs Fs recollection of the 
conversation, albeit she is uncertain of the date, I think this note does relate to Mr 
and Mrs F rather than another customer wrongly logged on their profile.
I think whats most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, is that 
Mrs F did contact Santander in October 2012 to discuss further borrowing and a new 
interest rate. This was around the time of the expiry of a previous rate, which means 
Mr and Mrs F would have been thinking about a rate at this time. And their whole 
mortgage history up to that point shows that they were actively managing their 
mortgage  they had taken new rates, new borrowing and extended the term in 
recent years.
Santander had recently reduced its age limit, so I think it would have explained Mr 
and Mrs F couldnt have taken further borrowing without reducing the term  as Mrs F 
remembers. An initial discussion of that sort might very well not have been noted 
down.
But as Santander says, that was no barrier to Mr and Mrs F taking a new interest 
rate. And I think they did have that discussion. But over the passage of time Mrs Fs 
memory of it has become that both applications were refused on age. I make no 
criticism of that; its natural, as human memory is fallible and it was a long time ago.
But if Mrs F was told a further borrowing application couldnt go ahead but a product 
switch could, that would explain why the entry reads mtge rate sale completed. 
If that was the case, why then did the product switch not happen? The same day, the 
later entry records that an agreement was sent out. And just over six months later, it 
was abandoned without going through. This suggests two possibilities  either the 
paperwork was sent out and Mr and Mrs F didnt return it, or  because of some 
system error or human error at Santander  it was never sent.
I think that if paperwork had been sent out Mr and Mrs F would have returned it. As 
Ive said, they were actively managing their mortgage in the years up to 2012, and 
had made and returned several previous applications. So I see no reason why they 
wouldnt have returned this one.
Santanders complaint handler told our investigator there was no record of any 
paperwork ever being generated  the system logs werent there, and no copy could be found. She said this must mean that the sale completed entry was wrong. But in 
my view it could also mean that the sale completed entry was right  but due to 
later error the paperwork was never generated or sent and its the credit agreement 
sent entry which is wrong rather than the sale completed entry.
Ive explained my reasons why I think its likely the sale completed entry is correct. 
And it follows from that that its more likely to be the credit agreement sent entry 
which is wrong. 
I think what happened is this. Mr and Mrs F applied for further borrowing and a new 
rate in 2012. They were told they couldnt have further borrowing but could have a 
new rate. But due to some error in Santanders systems, no rate change paperwork 
was sent out or returned. As they heard nothing more, Mr and Mrs F came to believe 
 honestly, but mistakenly  that both applications had been turned down. They tried 
again in 2013, but didnt get past the stage of making an appointment. It wasnt until 
2018 that they finally got a new rate.
Ultimately, therefore, the error is Santanders. Had the paperwork been sent out, Mr 
and Mrs F would have returned it and had a new rate in 2012  and thereafter, up to 
2018. 
But I do think Mr and Mrs F also contributed to the problems. Had they chased the 
paperwork up in 2012, the problem would have been solved at the time. And the 
same applies had they persisted with making an appointment in 2013.
Overall, therefore, I think its fair that Santander should put Mr and Mrs F back in the 
position they would have been had they taken a new interest rate in 2012. But in 
recognition of the fact that I think they also could have done more to resolve things at 
the time, I think its fair that Santander is only responsible for 50% of the 
overpayments that have resulted.
I dont know what product Mr and Mrs F would have taken in 2012. And I dont know 
what product they would have taken when that one expired. Its not possible to be 
sure about that now.
For ease, and to tie in with the new rate they actually took in January 2018  just 
over five years later  I think Santander should work on the basis that they took a two 
year rate followed by a three year rate, in each case without product fee. To be clear, 
Im not making a finding that those are the products they would have taken. But I 
think thats a fair way of compensating them given that uncertainty.
Finally, I agree that Mr and Mrs F were caused trouble and upset, and I think £250 is 
fair compensation in that respect.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs F didnt. On their behalf, their 
daughter replied. She said:
Mr and Mrs F had discussed a mortgage with Santander, not a credit card;
They dont think Santanders notes are accurate;
Mrs F did not phone to make an appointment in 2013. If no appointment was 
necessary in 2018 to change the rate, why would one have been in 2013?
Mr and Mrs F did not apply for new borrowing. They were told that either a change to 
the rate or new borrowing would require a change to the mortgage so that it would be 
paid by the age of 75;
Mr and Mrs F were told in 2019 that Santander had changed its policy in 2018 so that the mortgage would no longer need to be reduced to age 75 to access a new rate. 
This seems not to be true, and is one of many different explanations Santander have 
been given;
The notes recorded, which I quoted, are inaccurate and dont reflect Mr and Mrs Fs 
discussions with Santander;
Annual statements are generic in nature and not specifically aimed at Mr and Mrs F. 
Having been told that they would need to shorten the mortgage term to get a new 
rate twice, why would they think to apply again? It is not fair to say they should only 
get 50% of the difference;
Santander should not be rewarded for consenting to us considering a complaint 
which is not out of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what I said in my provisional decision, and the responses to it. 
And Ive taken into account whats been said on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf.
Its important to stress that Santander is not being rewarded for consenting to us considering 
the complaint. Our rules say that we can only consider complaints made in time  if a 
complaint is out of time, we cant consider it unless there are exceptional circumstances. But 
a firm can consent to us considering a complaint even though its out of time  though it 
doesnt have to.
In this case, the complaint is in part about what happened in 2012 and 2013. The time limits 
are the longer of six years from the date of the event, or three years from the date the 
complainant knew (or ought reasonably to have known) of cause for complaint. 2012 and 
2013 is more than six years before this complaint was made. But as Santander has agreed 
to us looking at the complaint despite that, I dont need to go on to consider whether it was 
made within the three year limit or whether there are exceptional circumstances. 
That is why I said in my provisional decision that Santander had consented  to note that the 
question of time limits was not relevant, since Santander had waived its right to object to an 
out of time complaint.
But there is no question of Santander being rewarded for that consent. Once I have 
jurisdiction  either because a complaint is in time, or because there is consent  the merits 
of the complaint is an entirely separate question. Santanders decision to consent to us 
considering the complaint plays no part in its outcome.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs Fs daughter says. But I also bear in mind what I said in 
my provisional decision. This was a long time ago, and human memory is fallible and can be 
unreliable. Thats not to suggest that Mr and Mrs F are dishonest, or that there is something 
wrong with their memories. Its simply an accepted scientific fact that memory is not like a 
photograph or a film, a permanent record of a past event. Rather, memory is fluid, and 
shaped by later experiences and emotions. And memory can be influenced by later tellings 
of an event, and later feelings about it. That is natural, and true for everyone.
But it does mean that I have to be careful where theres a difference between a memory of 
an event and its contemporaneous documentary record, as there is here.
And where  as here  the documentary evidence is very brief, and has been interpreted in 
different ways by different people, that process is even harder.But I dont think its the case that Mr and Mrs Fs age was a barrier to them taking out a new 
interest rate in 2012. Santander says that has never been its policy. And age wasnt a barrier 
to them taking out a rate when they did so before 2012  nor was it a barrier in 2018. I think 
the history of this mortgage supports what Santander says is and always has been its policy 
 that the fact this mortgage extends beyond the age of 75 has no bearing on whether 
Mr and Mrs F are, or ever have been, eligible for new rates.
Where the term beyond 75 has been an issue is in taking further borrowing beyond that age. 
And I think that is what happened in 2012. Mr and Mrs F were told they couldnt take further 
borrowing, but could take a new interest rate. The note recorded at the time supports that 
conclusion. Santanders policy supports that conclusion. The history of the mortgage before 
and since supports that conclusion. 
The only evidence pointing the other way  towards Mr and Mrs F being turned down for a 
rate as well as further borrowing  is their recollection. And while that is evidence too, Ive 
explained above the limitations of memory. This was a long time ago. I have to bear that in 
mind in deciding what weight to give the evidence of Mr and Mrs Fs recollections.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that in 2012 Mr and Mrs F were told they couldnt 
have further borrowing but could have a new rate. The paperwork was processed, but never 
sent out to them. And Mr and Mrs F didnt get back in touch with Santander to ask for it to be 
resent, or to ask why their rate had been implemented, or to ask for a new rate, until 2018. 
The annual statements werent a specific invitation to Mr and Mrs F. But they did explain 
how they could get a new rate. And if, over time, Mr and Mrs F came to believe  mistakenly 
 that they werent eligible for one, Santander isnt responsible for that.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, there was a failing on Santanders part. It offered them a 
new rate, but on balance I find it didnt send out the relevant paperwork for Mr and Mrs F to 
return accepting the new rate. Its therefore ultimately responsible for a new rate not being 
put in place. 
But Mr and Mrs F also have some responsibility. They didnt chase up to find out what had 
happened to the rate offer or why theyd never received it. They didnt ask about a rate again 
until 2018, despite reminders each year on their annual statements that they could do so.
Thats why I think its fair that Santander re-calculates their mortgage as if a rate had been 
put in place  but only needs to pay them 50% of the redress that results.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Calculate what Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage payments would have been had they taken 
the lowest available fee-free two year fixed rate from 1 December 2012, followed by 
the lowest available fee-free three year fixed rate, ending when Mr and Mrs F took 
their new rate in January 2018;
Give Mr and Mrs F the choice of either:
oHaving half of the difference in each monthly payment refunded to them, adding simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each payment to 
the date of refund; or
oHaving half of the difference in each monthly payment used to reduce their 
mortgage balance month by month, adjusting the interest charged as a result
Pay Mr and Mrs F £250 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman