DRN-1773397
 
Complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B. She says 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were sold the policy when they took out an unsecured loan in 2002. The cost 
of the PPI was added onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium 
policy. It covered Mrs B in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I understand that Mrs B has been through a truly tough time over the years, and I thank her 
for her candidness and for the time shes spent putting her case forward. But after careful 
consideration, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Understandably, because of all the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of the 
phone call where this policy was sold. But I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs credit agreement 
described the PPI as optional, and set out its costs separately to the costs of the loan itself 
 the PPI wasnt a necessary part of the loan. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Nationwides sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr or Mrs B 
were misled into buying PPI. It seems to have been presented as an optional extra. So 
I think its most likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if Mrs B 
no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs B clear information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves if it was right for them.
The cost of the policy was set out  including the premium, the interest payable on the 
premium, and the total cost. So it wouldve been clear how much the PPI would cost Mr and 
Mrs B if they kept the policy for its full term. Further, given how long the policy could have 
paid out for, if Mrs B made a successful claim, Mr and Mrs B couldve got back quite a bit 
more than they paid for it. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Bs work benefits and 
covered her for far longer.The policy was flexible  so Mr and Mrs B wouldve got a proportional refund if they 
cancelled the PPI early.
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman