DRN-1619209
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mrs B says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen of M&Ss sales process from the time, the PPI wouldve been described 
as optional and Mrs B wouldve been offered the choice to take it or turn it down. It looks like 
in order to get the policy, Mrs B would need to have actively chosen it on her credit 
agreement and signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing for the card as a whole. And 
Ive not seen any evidence showing that M&S significantly departed from its normal process 
here. So I think its most likely that M&S made it clear Mrs B didnt have to take out PPI and 
that she chose to take it  though I can certainly understand why she might not remember 
this after so long.
M&S didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. It 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limits. She 
didnt have any other significant cover in case she was off sick or lost her job, so the policy 
would have been useful for Mrs B if something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mrs B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think 
better information about PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out. 
This means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But M&S will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
M&S got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because M&S didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, M&S has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
M&S has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. M&S should also pay back to Mrs B any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means M&S should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs B the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. M&S should also pay Mrs B 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has 
already done this, then I dont award any further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman