DRN-2425475
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Ageas Retail Limited (Ageas) changed the payment plan for his motor 
insurance policy without his agreement. 
What happened
Mr K took out motor insurance with Ageas which started on 16 October 2019. He arranged 
this through a deposit and a monthly direct debit payment plan. 
In April 2020 Mr K asked Ageas if they intended to offer a £25 refund on the policy as other 
insurers had reportedly done. Some insurers had decided to offer such a refund as they felt 
drivers were using their cars less than they wouldve normally done because of coronavirus. 
But Ageas told him they werent offering refunds on premiums. But that they could allow Mr 
K to spread his next two monthly payments over the remaining period of the payment plan. 
Mr K didnt agree to this proposal. But Ageas made an error and amended his direct debits 
in line with their proposal anyway. 
So Mr K complained to Ageas. He asked them to reinstate the original payment plan so that 
the 1 May 2020 payment would be what hed originally expected. But Ageas couldnt 
reinstate the original direct debit amounts until June 2020.  
Ageas upheld Mr Ks complaint. They apologised and confirmed theyd removed £86.79  
the May 2020 direct debit amount - from Mr Ks payment plan as a gesture of goodwill and in 
acknowledgment of the errors made. They told him that there would be no payment request 
in May 2020 and that his payments would continue as hed expected from 1 June 2020 
through to 1 October 2020. 
Mr K initially accepted the apology and gesture of goodwill. But then he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He felt that Ageas had acted fairly and 
reasonably after acknowledging their error. Mr K didnt agree. So his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. Im satisfied that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when 
they resolved their error. Ill explain why.
Mr K has said he would like Ageas to apologise for their error and to pay him compensation. 
I can see that Ageas have already done both of these things.
Ageas corrected their error and put Mr K back in the position he wouldve been in if the error 
hadnt occurred for all payments from June 2020 onwards. They waived the May 2020 
payment as a gesture of goodwill. 
I can see that Mr K wouldve had some inconvenience in getting his original payment plan 
reinstated. But as Ageas acted quickly to correct their error, this inconvenience was over a 
relatively short period. And I note that in waiving the May 2020 payment Ageas paid Mr K 
compensation that was in line with what this service wouldve suggested.
All parties accept that Mr K didnt agree to the payment plan change. And I can see that it 
wouldnt have been clear how Ageas error would impact Mr Ks future payments. But Im 
satisfied that Ageas acted quickly and fairly to correct that error. And that their response to 
Mr K wouldve cleared any confusion about future payments. 
So I cant ask Ageas to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman