DRN-3460305
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled her international monetary transfer
instruction such that she had to reinstruct it, leading to an exchange rate loss of £236.18.
What happened
On 23 June 2021, Ms N instructed a transfer of £40,000 to an overseas account. The
transfer was flagged for security checks by HSBS, who attempted to contact Ms N on 25
June 2021. Later that day, having not been able to contact Ms N, HSBC cancelled the
instruction, meaning that Ms N had to resubmit it.
Because of a change in exchange rates, when Ms N did resubmit the transfer request she
had to instruct a transfer of £40,236.18 in order to ensure that the recipient received the
amount of money post-transfer as shed originally intended. Ms N wasnt happy that shed
had to incur this additional cost, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Ms Ns complaint. They felt that the transfer instruction had been
legitimately flagged for further security checks and apologised to Ms N for not contacting her
sooner to try to verify the instruction. HSBC also made a payment of £30 to Ms N to
compensate her for any inconvenience incurred. But HSBC didnt make a payment to Ms N
to cover the exchange rate loss of £236.18 as she wanted.
Ms N wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that it had been
reasonable for HSBC to have flagged the transfer instruction for further checks, and they
didnt feel that HSBC had acted unfairly towards Ms N in how theyd managed the situation.
So, they didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Ms N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2022 as follows:
HSBC have confirmed that the transfer instruction was flagged for further verification 
on 23 June 2021, the day that Ms N instructed it. However, HSBC didnt then attempt 
to contact Ms N and verify the legitimacy of the instruction with her until 11:12 am on 
25 June 2021. Additionally, HSBC then cancelled the transfer instruction later that 
day at 14:27  only three and a quarter hours after first attempting to contact Ms N 
about it.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and while I can appreciate that HSBC may have had a 
high volume of similarly flagged payments at that time which hindered them from 
contacting Ms N sooner about this, I dont feel that Ms N should be asked to bear the 
cost of the exchange rate loss that she incurred because of this.
If HSBC had attempted to contact Ms N sooner than they did  and had therefore 
given Ms N a reasonable opportunity to respond and to verify the instruction before it 
was cancelled  then I would be finding in HSBCs favour here.
But I dont feel that attempting to contact Ms N just over three hours before the 
instruction was cancelled, on a Friday mid-morning when its understandable that Ms 
N might not be immediately available, does constitute the provision of a fair and 
reasonable amount of time for Ms N to respond.
As such, my provisional decision here is that I will be upholding this complaint in Ms 
Ns favour and that HSBC must make a payment of £236.18 to reimburse Ms N the 
additional cost of the transfer that I feel shes unreasonably had to bear.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms N and HSBC the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Ms N confirmed that she was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
HSBC did raise some points for my consideration.
The first of HSBCs points was that they felt they had attempted Ms N within their published 
timeframes. I dont dispute this, but I dont feel that HSBC provided Ms N with a reasonable 
opportunity to respond after the attempted contact attempt before they cancelled the transfer 
instruction, as explained in my provisional decision letter. And given that HSBC had 
identified the need to contact Ms N two days earlier, I feel that HSBC could have provided 
Ms N with more time to respond than they actually did here.
HSBC also point out that when they did speak with Ms N in the evening of 25 June 2021, 
after the transfer had been cancelled, that Ms N didnt immediately reinstruct the transfer, 
and only did so three days later on 28 June 2021. And HSBC feel that this three-day delay 
would have contributed to the difference in transfer amounts
But 25 June 2021 was a Friday, meaning that 28 June 2021 was a Monday - the next 
available working day. And given that Ms N wasnt able to speak with HSBC until after the 
close of the working day on Friday 25 June 2021, I dont feel that the three day delay is as 
consequential as HSBC allege here  given that foreign exchange markets dont operate on 
weekends, that HSBC themselves wouldnt have answered Ms Ns call is she had tried to 
contact them the following day, Saturday 26 June 2021, and that even if Ms N had asked for 
the transfer to be reinstructed on the evening of Friday 25 June 2021, that request wouldnt 
in all likelihood have been progressed by HSBC until the next available working day, which 
was Monday 28 June 2021, when Ms N did provide that instruction to HSBC.
Ultimately, after taking HSBCs points into consideration, it remains my position that I dont 
feel that its fair for Ms N to have been only been given what I consider to be an 
unreasonably short amount of time to respond to HSBCs contact attempt before the transfer 
that shed requested was cancelled by HSBC. And it follows from this that my final decision 
here will be that Im upholding this complaint in Ms Ns favour on the basis as outlined 
previously in my provisional decision letter.Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £236.18 to Ms N to reimburse to her the additional cost of 
the transfer that I feel shes unreasonably had to bear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman