DRN-2927075
The complaint
Mr M has complained that ERS Syndicate Management Limited, an appointed
representative of The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined his motor insurance claim
and avoided his policy.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr M purchased a motorhome and obtained a motor insurance policy from
Lloyds. Six days later, Mr Ms motorhome was deliberately set on fire whilst parked on the
road outside his house and the police caught an individual in relation to the arson attack. Mr
M contacted Lloyds to make a claim.
Lloyds declined Mr Ms claim as it considered that hed misrepresented the facts, by saying
in response to Lloyds question, that the motorhome would be kept on a drive at a farm when
not in use. As the motorhome had been parked on the road outside his house on the date of
the incident, Lloyds declined his claim, declared that Mr Ms policy would be avoided and
stated that it wouldnt refund Mr Ms premiums.
Lloyds issued its final response letter in the following terms; The failure to disclose the
correct overnight location is considered deliberate misrepresentation of material facts. As
such we must evoke our rights to void your policy, without a refund of premium. This means
that you no longer have insurance in place, this is effective from the date of voidance
stated on this letter, and you are required to disclose this to any insurer in the future.
Mr M complained to Lloyds and his complaint was investigated but wasnt upheld, so he
asked this service to investigate. Our investigator found Lloyds question to be
clear and that as the motorhome hadnt been kept at the overnight location stated by Mr M,
hed misrepresented facts relevant to the insurance policy.
The investigator had regard to the policy terms and conditions with reference to the term
storage which was given a specific meaning in the policy, to the effect that the motorhome
was in storage when not in use for travel or other day-to-day activity. At the time of the
incident, he thought the motorhome was being stored, as it wasnt in use. He went on to note
that Lloyds underwriting guide showed it wouldnt have offered Mr M a quote had it been
aware his motorhome would be kept outside his house overnight. He said that this meant
that the misrepresentation was one which entitled Lloyds to cancel the policy.
The investigator concluded that there had been a misrepresentation however that the
misrepresentation was careless and not deliberate or reckless. He didnt think it was
unreasonable for Lloyds to avoid the policy but as the misrepresentation was careless, Mr
Ms premiums should have been refunded.
Lloyds didnt accept this view and considered that there had been a reckless
misrepresentation of a material fact by Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy as he said that he considered that the motorhome was in use on the date
of the arson attack and not in storage.
The complaint was referred to me to consider afresh.
In June 2021, I issued a provisional decision and explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint as follows; -
Its my role to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly and/or reasonably in the light of the law
and policy terms in declining Mr Ms claim and avoiding his policy. In all the circumstances,
my provisional judgment is that I cannot say that Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in
declining Mr Ms claim and avoiding his policy. Ill explain why.
The relevant law is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. The standard of care is that of a reasonable
consumer. If a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, an insurer may treat the
insurance contract as if it never existed or avoided, retain the premium and refuse all
claims.
Under the Act, if a consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the insurer
then has certain remedies where the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as, a
qualifying misrepresentation. CIDRA also sets out considerations for deciding whether the
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is how clear and
specific the insurers questions are. Lloyds position is that it asked clear questions when Mr
M bought the policy and that it had acted within its policy terms and conditions.
Ive listened carefully to the telephone call between Mr M and Lloyds when he was applying
for his policy and also when he was providing his version of events to the services
investigator. Ive also carefully considered the information confirmed by Lloyds and included
in the Statement of Fact with Mr Ms policy documents.
Turning to the facts, in the telephone call in May 2020 when Mr M purchased his policy, the
Lloyds agent asked Mr M to confirm the following about the motorhome; When its not in use
Its going to be parked on the driveway at [post code]?. Mr M confirmed Yes.
In the Statement of Fact which records the details from this call, the note at the top of the
document states; This Statement of Fact is a record of the information and material facts
provided by you. This information has been relied upon to calculate a premium and apply
terms and conditions upon which insurance cover is offered. You must inform your broker
immediately if any details are incorrect, incomplete or have been omitted.. For the overnight
parking description, the answer inserted by Lloyds was Drive and the Overnight parking
postcode was the post code given in the telephone call. This was the farm location, and a
different location to that of Mr Ms home address.
Ill now turn to the policy terms and conditions which have been referred to in this case, to
understand whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. We
expect the insurer to apply their terms fairly and reasonably. In this case, the policy clearly
sets out the policyholders duties as follows; We rely upon the information you provided on
your behalf on your signed proposal form or statement of fact, and any other information
given either verbally or in writing by you or on your behalf in the formation of and throughout
the duration of the contract.
The Limitations as to use of his motorhome in Mr Ms insurance certificate are; social,
domestic and pleasure (excluding commuting).
The policy states; We will insure your motorhome against loss or damage (less any excessthat applies) caused by: Fire
Certain definitions are given as follows: Storage - Your motorhome will be considered to be
stored or in storage when it is not in use for the purposes of travel or other day to day
activity. Storage location - The address recorded on your statement of fact of where your
motorhome is kept when not in use for the purposes of travel or other day to day activity.
Mr M says that after buying his motorhome, he brought it home and he and his wife set
about cleaning, equipping it, creating an inventory and checking that things worked. He said
that due to lockdown, he and his wife could not go away in it and they would sit in it drinking
coffee. They slept in it on the night before it was set on fire; Due to lockdown, we could not
go away in it and like many camping articles that I have read of people using their
campervan in their driveway, we would sit in it drinking coffee...
In summary, Mr M said that the motorhome wasnt in storage but was in use. He said that
hed received approval to store it at a farm when not in use, and in another day or two, it
would have been taken to the address for storage until he and his wife could get away.
Ive listened to Mr Ms telephone call with our investigator and Mr M stated that the
motorhome was going to be stored at the farm location where he works part-time, and where
he received permission to park the caravan on a large drive-way. He said that it was not fair
to say that the motorhome was not in use when it was at his home address up until the
incident. He explained that a part of the problem was that the storage location was in a
different county and due to the Covid restrictions, there were complications in going back
and forth to clean and fit it out. It would be frowned upon.
Mr M said that he and his wife had slept in the motorhome the night before the incident. He
said that his neighbours could testify that he had been in and out of the motorhome
constantly in the days before the fire and indeed that they had been worried that Mr and Mrs
M were in the motorhome on the night when the incident occurred. It was never the intention
to store the motorhome at his home. He didnt realise the consequences of his answer to the
relevant question or that it would make a difference that the motorhome was at his property
for a few days.
Lloyds stated that upon reporting the claim, Mr M advised its claims team that the
motorhome was being kept on a public road at his home address and that if this was
disclosed at inception of the policy, this wouldnt have been deemed acceptable and cover
wouldnt have been offered. It hadnt received confirmation that any amendments were
required to the policy. It re-stated the view that Mr M was asked clearly as to where the
motorhome was kept when not in use and that the policy provided a clear definition of what
was meant by stored or in storage. It considered that Mr M was made aware at inception
that keeping the motorhome on the roadside would be outside of the agreed terms of the
policy.
Lloyds said that as Mr M didnt keep the motorhome at the correct location during the first
week of the policy, when terms and conditions would be fresh in his memory, it believed that
this had potential to be viewed as more reckless than carless. It therefore concluded that this
constituted deliberate misrepresentation of the overnight parking address which it stated was
a material fact. It said that this gave it the right to avoid Mr Ms policy, without a refund of
premium and that Mr M would be required to disclose this to any insurer in the future.
It reached this conclusion on the basis that leaving the motorhome parked outside Mr Ms
home for a continuous period of seven days and overnight would contravene the terms of
the contract of insurance. It said that it would also cast doubt as to whether there was ever
an intention to store the motorhome at the declared overnight address. It appreciated that MrM may have been kitting out the vehicle, but it didnt consider that this negated the
obligation to comply with the terms of cover and ensure that the motorhome was stored
overnight as per the terms of cover.
Following receipt of our investigators view, Lloyds presented further submissions as follows;
if Mr M was carrying out a deep clean on the motorhome, it queried whether the vehicle
would have been in any state to sleep in and in any event at the end of each day should
have been stored/kept at the address given. The motorhome was never at the address it
should have been when not in use, so this was not a one-off event and there was, in its
submission, no evidence the policyholder was ever going to store the motorhome at the
agreed address.
Finally, Lloyds stated that a clear question was asked, and a clear answer provided, so that
Mr M was fully aware where the motorhome needed to be stored when not in use. It said the
fact that the motorhome was never kept at the required address i.e. not for just one or even
a few days, but never, meant that Mr M made a choice to then not store the motorhome at
the agreed location at any point. It considered this act to be deliberate.
In terms of evidence, Ive seen Lloyds underwriting guide which confirms that a vehicle of
this nature and value, parked on a street or public road is an unacceptable risk to
underwriters and no policy coverage would have been offered on these terms.
My starting point in making a provisional decision is to consider CIDRA to see if there has
been a misrepresentation and in order to do this I have looked to see if Lloyds asked clear
questions when Mr M was obtaining his quote.
Firstly therefore, I will look at the question asked by Lloyds in relation to parking. I have
listened to the telephone call when this and other relevant questions were being asked by
the Lloyds agent and when the question was posed; When its not in use its going to be
parked on the driveway at [post code]? The quote questions were asked quickly and in rapid
succession, to the extent that Mr M had to interrupt the agent on two occasions to clarify his
answers. Theres no discussion and Mr M didnt ask for clarification of the phrase When its
not in use. and this wording hasnt been fully explored to date in relation to this complaint.
The limitation as to use in the case of Mr Ms motorhome was social, domestic and
pleasure. In ordinary times, use of a motorhome would no doubt be associated with trips
and holidays away from home. I accept however that during the exceptional Covid crisis,
motorhomes have been utilised for social, domestic and pleasure purposes closer to home.
In the case of Mr M and his wife, this use took place outside his home.
The words in use are not defined in the policy, however Im satisfied, subject to any
information or evidence which persuades me otherwise, that sleeping in the motorhome and
sitting in a motorhome to drink coffee is capable of fulfilling the ordinary understanding of the
words use of a motorhome for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. I dont consider that
it would be a fair or reasonable interpretation of the policy wording that this use must be
continuous or that the policyholder would be expected to sleep in the motorhome every night
so as not to invalidate his insurance. It needs to be considered in the light of what was a
temporary, one-off situation.
In this very unusual case, an arson attack unfortunately took place within less than a week of
purchase of the motorhome. Mr M has provided consistent and credible accounts of
qualifying use during this short period of time. He has also provided consistent and credible
accounts of cleaning and equipping the vehicle. Consequently, I dont consider that it would
be fair or reasonable to class any of this activity as storage. Im also persuaded that Mr M
fully intended to place the motorhome into storage at the location given in the Statement ofFact within one or two days, as the cleaning and equipping exercise was coming to an end.
In this respect, I agree with our investigator who said; I believe his intention was to move the
motorhome as soon as hed finished the testing and cleaning.
As for the Statement of Fact which records the overnight parking description as a drive at the
farm postcode away from his home, in my view this has to be read in conjunction with the
question asked of Mr M which was subtly different, as it referred to parking when its not in
use.
Lloyds have understandably referred to the following definition within the policy to support its
position; Storage - Your motorhome will be considered to be stored or in storage when it is
not in use for the purposes of travel or other day to day activity. Im not satisfied that this
definition assist Lloyds however or takes the debate any further, as it simply states that the
motorhome is in storage when its not in use. If anything, it supports Mr Ms position that
use is wider than an assumed meaning of use for trips or holidays. The definition itself
acknowledges that use is wider than travel only and can include other day to day activity.
Im satisfied that this activity can include enjoying a hot drink in the motorhome, sleeping in it
and furthermore, it can include a weeks worth of testing, equipping and preparation for
storage.
In conclusion, in this instance I dont consider that Mr M has misrepresented a material fact.
The question asked by Lloyds was clear in as much as an ordinary member of the public
would understand the word use to mean use for ordinary social, domestic and pleasure
purposes. The question was unclear however if it was designed to exclude the day to day
activity for which Mr M used his motorhome within his first week of ownership. On the basis
of all the evidence Ive seen and heard, Im therefore satisfied that Mr M answered the
question asked by Lloyds truthfully and honestly, he didnt make any error and he didnt
misrepresent a material fact.
On the face of it, the overnight parking description given in the Statement of Fact is clearer
and it could be argued that the motorhome must be parked at the stated location every night
without exception. I cannot say that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely upon
the subtly different wording of the Statement of Fact to the question asked of Mr M however,
to allow Lloyds to decline Mr Ms claim and to avoid his policy. The words of that Statement
should reasonably be read in the light of the question asked of him and which excludes
occasions when the motorhome is in use and I have provisionally determined that particular
question as above.
Since Im not minded to agree with Lloyds that there has been a misrepresentation, it follows
that I dont consider the remainder of CIDRA, concerning remedies for insurers where there
has been a misrepresentation, applies.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Lloyds and Mr M if they had any further comments 
or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has accepted my provisional decision however Lloyds disagrees with it. Mr M 
reiterated that he and his wife had been sleeping in the motorhome and intended to sleep in 
it on the night of the fire and provided a personal explanation as to why they didnt do so. Lloyds reiterated the point that on the facts and evidence, the vehicle was never kept 
overnight at the correct and agreed address. It remarked that what the policyholder was 
intending to do was not evidence or fact.
Lloyds submitted that; Furthermore, why during a lockdown would a person choose to stay 
in a motorhome for a whole week that theyre in the process of cleaning, outside their own 
home rather than stay in their house as per government guidance has not been fully 
explained or evidenced?
In fact the PH was not staying in the motorhome overnight on that night it was it vandalised 
which is actually evidence that they had not been staying in the motorhome at all not that 
they had been surly?
However, ERS are provisionally being asked to pay the sum £19,500 on the assumption only 
that the policyholder was staying in the vehicle overnight and at a different address to what 
had been agreed at inception. How is this a fair and reasonable action to be placed on ERS 
please?.
On the first point, as to Lloyds statement that what the policyholder was intending to do was 
not evidence or fact, I would agree with this statement. The provisional decision refers to 
actual use and not intended use however. Based on the credible and consistent evidence 
provided by Mr M, Im satisfied that the use was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
On the second point, its not necessary to speculate as to why a person would choose to 
stay in a motorhome or why s/he would use the vehicle outside their home. Im 
nevertheless satisfied on the balance of probabilities based on Mr Ms written evidence that 
such use took place as he and his wife were testing out the various appliances and facilities.
On the third point, Im satisfied also by Mr Ms written evidence that he and his wife had 
been sleeping in the campervan and as to the personal explanation for not sleeping in it on 
the night of the fire.
Finally, on the fourth point, Im satisfied on the evidence (and not on an assumption) as to 
the use of the campervan by Mr M and his wife in line with the policy terms and conditions.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint for the reasons given above and require ERS Syndicate 
Management Limited as an appointed representative of The Society of Lloyds to:
- Pay Mr M £19,500, being the sum which it initially offered to pay Mr M (less the relevant
excess), within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision.
- Record on its systems the fact that Mr Ms policy was avoided in error and issue a letter to
Mr M which he may share with his current and future insurers to confirm that his policy was
avoided in error.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman