DRN-4460642
The complaint
Miss L and Mrs L complain about cancellation of their motor insurance policy by BISL 
Limited (BISL), an insurance intermediary who arranged and administered the policy.
References to BISL include their agents.
What happened
Mrs L took out motor insurance for her daughter, Miss L, in October 2022 when she had a 
provisional driving licence. When she took out the policy, Mrs L says she was told on a call 
that when Miss L passed her driving test she could tell BISL, and they would upgrade the 
policy to reflect Miss L having a full driving licence (on payment of the appropriate premium 
for doing so). 
Miss L passed her driving test in March 2023, so Mrs L called BISL to upgrade the policy. 
However, BISL said they werent able to provide a quote for Miss L holding a full driving 
licence as they deemed the risk to be too high. Mrs L was then told she would have to 
cancel the policy (as it was based on Miss L having a provisional licence when she now had 
a full driving licence). Mrs L also had to cancel the policy to enable her to find cover for Miss 
L with another insurer. BISL said Mrs l would have to pay a £55 cancellation fee to cancel 
the policy. Mrs L told the call handler she was unhappy at the fee being charged, as she had 
no option but to cancel the policy.
So, Miss L and Mrs L complained to BISL, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final 
response they referred to a conversation with Miss L and Mrs L about their complaint and 
added the complaint had been resolved and any actions agreed.
Miss L and Mrs L then complained to this Service. They didnt agree their complaint had 
been resolved and thought it unfair the £55 cancellation fee was charged. And it had been 
stressful having to take out a new policy with another insurer. They wanted BISL to refund 
the cancellation fee.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding the policy documents state there 
would be a £55 cancellation fee if the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period. So, 
BISL had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. While Mrs L said shed been told 
in the call when taking out the policy she could upgrade it when Miss L passed her driving 
test, BISL could not locate a recording of the call. But they would search for it if Miss L and 
Mrs L could provide details of the date and number called from.
Miss L and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They provided the number they said theyd made the call to BISL from, 
and the date and time, so they could search for the call. They said theyd queried whether 
BISL would convert Miss Ls status to holding a full driving licence rather than a provisional 
licence when she passed her driving test, and they understood BISL told them they would 
do. And not force them to cancel the policy and be charged the £55 cancellation fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether BISL have acted fairly towards Miss L and Mrs L.
The key issue in Miss L and Mrs Ls complaint is whether the £55 cancellation fee was 
charged fairly. Miss L and Mrs L feel it unfair to levy the fee as they had no option but to 
cancel the policy as the insurer wouldnt provide a quote for cover with Miss L as a full 
licence holder. But when they took out the policy, they were told they could take out cover in 
this situation, for an additional premium. BISL say they applied the £55 cancellation fee in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
Looking at the policy documents provided to Mis L and Mrs L when the policy was taken out, 
it includes a document titled Important Information about Our Insurance Intermediary 
Services (BISL being the insurance intermediary). Under a heading Cancellation fee the 
document states:
If either you or We cancel more than 14 days after receiving your policy 
documentation We will charge you a fee of £55 plus the cost for the period of cover 
you have benefitted from.
I think this makes it clear the £55 cancellation fee will apply if the policy is cancelled (by 
either party) outside the cooling off period.
Looking at the Statement of Insurance document issued with the policy, it records Miss Ls 
details and her Licence type as Provisional Licence. Underneath the details of Miss l 
theres a sentence that reads:
Please be aware that any changes to type of licence held, which could include 
passing your driving test, may result in an increased premium.
While this indicates passing a driving test and change of licence from provisional to full may 
(my emphasis) result in an increased premium, it doesnt mean the policy would 
automatically be amended to reflect a change of licence type and cover continue to be 
provided. 
As a contract of insurance, insurers are able to vary the terms of the contract (with due 
notice) should any of the facts and information upon which the policy is issued change 
subsequently. And it would be a commercial decision for BISL as to whether they are 
prepared to continue to offer cover when those circumstances change.
In this case, it appears BISL werent prepared to continue to provide cover for Miss L as a 
full licence holder, rather than as a provisional licence holder. As a commercial decision, I 
cant say thats unfair or unreasonable. In which case, BISL acted within the terms of the 
policy in asking Miss L and Mrs L to cancel the policy  or they could have exercised their 
rights to cancel the policy. In either event, the wording of the Cancellation fee section set out 
above would apply, including the £55 cancellation fee. 
The other aspect of Miss L and Mrs Ls complaint is they say they were told, when taking out 
the policy, that when Miss L passed her driving test she could tell BISL, and they would 
upgrade the policy to reflect Miss L having a full driving licence (on payment of the 
appropriate premium for doing so). BISL havent been able to provide any such call 
recording, so I cant say what may, or may not, have been said. But I have listened to calls made when Miss L and Mrs L called BISL in March 2023 when Miss L had passed her 
driving test. From the discussion it appears the underwriter of the policy (not BISL) wouldnt 
provide a quote of cover for Miss L as a full licence holder, because of the level of risk they 
assessed this would present to them. 
Given they wouldnt cover Miss L on that basis, then the policy would have to be cancelled. 
Either  as happened  by Miss L and Mrs L, or by BISL (or the underwriter). As I said 
above, ultimately its a commercial decision from the insurer (the underwriter) whether to 
offer cover in the changed circumstances of Miss L becoming a full licence holder, rather 
than a provisional licence holder. So, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably. And where the 
policy has to be cancelled, the £55 cancellation fee would apply (from BISL). 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded BISL didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
applying the £55 cancellation fee, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss L and Mrs Ls 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman