DRN-3419767
The complaint
Mr F said Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows: 
Date taken Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
09/11/2016 £2,500 36 
months£242.61 £8,733.96 live
Mr F said that he was given the loan when he clearly didnt have the funds to pay it and he 
feels the loan was pushed through due to the lender wanting to earn commission. He said 
the loan defaulted very quickly as the interest rate was so high and he is now repaying the 
loan through a payment arrangement worked out with the help of a debt charity. 
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans had seen enough from its checks to have 
realised that Mr F was already having problems managing his money  in particular, 
Everyday Loans saw that he was gambling over £250 per month and our adjudicator said 
the repayment of the loan represented a significant proportion of Mr Fs income.  
Mr F didnt respond to our adjudicators view but Everyday Loans disagreed. It mainly said 
that the bank statements it saw showed that Mr Fs bank account had a positive balance 
throughout the time period viewed with one dip into overdraft for less than a day. Everyday 
Loans felt this showed he managed his money extremely well and that he was very aware of 
his bank balance.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, I havent currently seen enough evidence to enable me to say that 
Everyday Loans made an unfair lending decision when it provided this loan. Ill explain why I 
say this.
Everyday Loans was required to lend responsibly. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Checks had to be borrower-focused. So 
Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday 
Loans to think only about the likelihood of it getting its money back - it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
-the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
-the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr F and Ive considered the following questions:
-did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
-did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
-did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans asked for some information from Mr F before it approved the loan including 
details of his income and his monthly spending. It told us it worked out what Mr Fs likely 
monthly salary would be by checking the information it saw detailing his pay in his contract of 
employment  and it also saw a payslip. It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit 
history and existing commitments. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its 
calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Fs 
position might reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked out by 
the Office for National Statistics. It also asked about the purpose of the loan. Based on the 
information it gathered, Everyday Loans concluded Mr F would be left with ample spare cash 
after making his Everyday Loans loan repayments and so he shouldve been comfortably 
able to afford the loan. Everyday Loans recorded that Mr Fs monthly earnings were around £1,623. It worked out 
that his likely monthly outgoings were around £587  leaving him with more than £1,000 
spare cash each month. So it looked like the monthly repayments for this loan would be 
easily affordable.
The results from Everyday Loans credit checks showed Mr F had only a limited amount of 
outstanding credit  he owed just over £600 spread over three credit cards. I havent seen 
anything to make me think Everyday Loans shouldve been concerned by what it saw in its 
credit checks.  
Mr F had told Everyday Loans he wanted the loan for car repairs and to pay some of his 
other debt. I think those wouldve seemed plausible reasons to lend. The longer it takes to 
pay credit card debt the more expensive this type of borrowing becomes  so settling credit 
card debt in one go can sometimes be a useful way to help limit costs and manage credit 
more easily. And it would be understandable that Mr F might prefer to borrow money to pay 
for a one-off expense rather than draw on his available spending money to cover this cost.  
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
I think the checks Everyday Loans did went far enough and they were broadly proportionate 
in the circumstances. Overall, given that this was Mr Fs first loan with Everyday Loans, the 
monthly repayment was a relatively small percentage of his monthly income and hed given 
a reasonable explanation for needing this loan, I dont think there was anything in the 
information Everyday Loans gathered that ought to have led it to a different lending decision. 
In saying this, Im mindful that Everyday Loans saw that in the month running up to Mr F 
taking out this loan he had spent around £250 on online gambling. But I think its fair to say 
that this seemed to be spending that was affordable for Mr F and apparently under his 
control  the bank statements Everyday Loans saw dont suggest his gambling was leading 
to any serious money problems for Mr F and it did look like he was able to manage his 
spending within the account limits. He was single and living free of charge in another 
household and free to spend his money as he chose. I can see from its notes that Everyday 
Loans did consider this information before agreeing to lend. And I think it was reasonably 
entitled to the view that the information it saw wasnt enough to show that Mr F was 
recklessly spending money he couldnt afford on an addiction he couldnt control. 
Ive thought about the possibility that Mr F mightnt have used the loan to repay any of his 
existing credit card debt  so hed still be paying for this alongside the new loan. But, even 
assuming he repaid 5% of his total outstanding card balance each time in order to make 
some inroads into clearing it within a reasonable period of time, his overall spending on 
credit commitments would still have looked easily affordable at less than £300, given this 
should still have left him with around £700  ample to cover a £250 monthly spend on 
gambling.
I think Everyday Loans was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it gathered and that 
its lending decision was fair, based on what it saw. It follows that I dont think Everyday 
Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr F and so theres nothing Everyday Loans needs to 
do to put things right.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr F hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in any other way. Ive thought about what Mr F has said about the high cost of the loan. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable and I can appreciate that Mr F might now feel this was 
unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr F 
had to actively engage in the loan application process. 
Whilst hes said he feels the process was rushed, I think this perhaps reflected the fact that, 
like other providers of this sort of credit, Everyday Loans has largely automated processes in 
place to enable it to give borrowers a quick lending decision. The loan was arranged online 
and I think Mr F wouldve understood that it was up to him to choose whether or not he 
wanted to go ahead with the loan offered.   
Taking everything into account, I think Mr F was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr F but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither  Mr F nor Everyday Loans has sent me any further information. The deadline for 
responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Given that Ive not 
received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, 
I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman