DRN-1463263
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about markers Barclays Bank UK PLC put on his credit file about his 
buy to let mortgage account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to bear in mind that Mr H agreed to make his mortgage payments in full and on 
time when he took this mortgage out; and by on time his contract states thats on or before 
the 3rd of each month. Hes obliged to do so, and thats what I need to consider in 
determining whats fair in this case.
Its normal industry practice for a lender to record any missed or late payments on a credit 
file. In fact, lenders have a duty to report that information. In this case I dont think Barclays 
did anything wrong in reporting the true arrears position of Mr Hs mortgage account.
The contract Mr H entered into is that he has to pay by the 3rd of each month the payment 
due from the month before. So, for example, the payment due for March 2019 has to be paid 
by 3 April 2019. To continue with that example, Mr H didnt make that payment until 26 April.
A late or missed payment isnt reported unless the account is at least one full contractual 
monthly payment in arrears. So if, for example, a customer is £5 in credit the day before their 
contractual monthly payment of £100 becomes due, if they dont make the payment then the 
arrears balance will be £95 (the £100 due minus the £5 the account was in credit). So that 
wouldnt be reported to the credit reference agencies if the missed payment was made up 
before there were any further debits to the account (such as interest and/or the next 
payment was due). Thats why Mr H has been able to pay late on many occasions without it 
affecting his credit file.
But here Mr H was £2.63 in debit (so already in arrears as it were). When the payment of 
£266.16 became due on 3 April 2019 then Mr H became £268.79 in arrears, so it was 
reported to the credit reference agencies. The same happened in June 2019 as at that time 
Mr H was already £29.95 in debit, so as soon as the payment became due on 3 June 2019 
he was pushed over the threshold and the arrears were reported.
In contrast to that, in July 2019 Mr H was £3.89 in credit, so when he didnt make the 
payment due on 3 July on time nothing was reported as he was only £262.27 in arrears, 
against a contractual monthly payment of £266.16, so he was under a month in arrears.
Barclays has correctly reported Mr Hs mortgage as being in arrears as thats a true 
reflection of the account. I understand Mr H says he wants the payments recorded as late 
rather than missed, but those terms are generally used interchangeably when looking at 
credit files. The credit reference agencies are notified of the status of the account on a 
certain day of the month and if the account is over a month in arrears at that point thats 
whats reported. That information isnt amended if the payment is later made. All Barclays 
can do  and what it did do  is notify the credit reference agencies that Mr Hs mortgage 
account was over a month in arrears at the time of reporting. The fact Mr H made the 
payment up later in the month is irrelevant to that report.
One option Mr H might want to consider is adding a Notice of Correction to his credit file. 
This is a short note he can write to give some context and explain why he feels the reporting 
is unfair. It would be available to all lenders as its seen by anyone reading the report. Mr H 
should contact the credit reference agencies directly if he wants to do this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman