DRN-4006669
The complaint
Ms B complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) havent settled her claim fairly under 
the terms of her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2022, Ms B made a claim on her policy. Unfortunately, her car was stolen and 
later declared a total loss.
To reach a fair market value for Ms Bs car, esure checked four motor trade guides called 
CAP, Parkers, Glasss and Cazoo. They then offered her the average value suggested by 
the first three guides (£32,938) and said they'd treated the Cazoo valuation as an outlier as it 
was significantly different to the rest. 
Ms B didnt think this was fair. She said her car was in excellent condition and had optional 
extras including side steps which impacted its value. She therefore asked esure to provide 
adverts that supported their settlement offer. However, they declined this request and their 
valuation remained the same.
One of our investigators then considered the complaint. Before reaching an opinion, she 
requested a bespoke valuation from CAP, and also checked Autotrader to see how they 
valued Ms Bs car. This information combined with her own market research and an advert 
Ms B provided from the month of loss, led her to conclude the complaint should be upheld. 
She disagreed that the Cazoo valuation was an outlier and said the Autotrader and Cazoo 
valuations appeared to be the most accurate. So, she asked esure to increase the 
settlement of Ms Bs claim.
Ms B accepted the investigators opinion, but esure didnt. They disagreed that further 
valuations were necessary and said they shouldnt impact the outcome of this complaint in 
any event. As although the Autotrader and Cazoo valuations were similar, they'd already 
checked four motor trade guides and made a fair offer based on the values they suggested.  
They also said our service usually agrees that it's reasonable to treat valuations that are 
significantly different to the rest as outliers. Lastly, they highlighted the fact they didnt 
routinely check Autotrader at the time of the claim and said our service only started doing so 
in August 2022. All of which meant they felt strongly they shouldnt be required to do 
anything more.
Our investigator considered esures response, but then said her opinion remained the same. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Ms Bs policy says esure will provide the market value for her car if it's declared a total
loss. And the policy defines market value as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of similar age,
condition, and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on
research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not
be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers our
service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are
based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into consideration including
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can
have a big impact on its value. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others,
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the circumstances and on the
value of the car. 
Ive carefully considered all six valuations provided by the motor trade guides including the 
two extra valuations the investigator reviewed. Using the retail transacted figures, I can see 
the guides valued Ms Bs car as follows:
Parkers £31,775
CAP £32,076
Bespoke CAP £33,165
Glasss £34,960
Cazoo £38,236
Autotrader £39,094
This means the motor trade guides suggest Ms Bs car should be valued between £31,775 
and £39,094. I appreciate our investigator said the Parkers valuation should be disregarded, 
but I disagree and see no reason to exclude it. I am however mindful that two of the lower 
valuations were both provided by CAP.
As esure is aware, our service thinks it's usually reasonable for an insurer to offer a value 
that falls within the range of values suggested by the motor trade guides. However, based on 
the specific circumstances, I dont think that approach would result in a fair outcome here. I 
say this as there isnt an even spread across the above guides and the Cazoo and 
Autotrader valuations are significantly higher than the rest. So, I've taken adverts into 
consideration to help me determine which of the motor trade guides are likely to be the most 
accurate.
Ms B has provided an advert from September 2022 which states £39,089 as the asking price 
for a car that is a similar specification to hers including the optional extras. I can see that the 
investigator asked esure, if they had considered adverts as part of their decision to treat the 
Cazoo valuation as an outlier, and they said that they didnt. I think this would have been 
helpful as Ms B specifically asked esure to provide copies of the adverts they'd considered 
and said she couldnt replace her car based on their settlement offer.
Ms B has only provided one advert for a similar car and I suspect the asking price allowed 
some room for negotiation. However, I also think it's reasonable to conclude this advert 
supports the two highest valuations provided by the motor trade guides. Ive also checked if 
there are similar cars currently on sale, for the same amount as esures valuation and Im satisfied there arent. So, if esure had done as Ms B had asked (checked adverts at the time 
of the claim) I think its likely they'd have noticed this discrepancy and not disregarded the 
Cazoo valuation.
I know esure disagrees with the inclusion of the valuation provided by Autotrader, as they 
didnt routinely check this guide at the time of the claim. However, as our service thinks the 
valuations provided by this guide are generally reliable, I see no reason not to consider this 
evidence. Im also satisfied that it supports the valuation provided by Cazoo as they both 
suggested similar values and as mentioned above, the adverts I've seen dont support 
esures decision to disregard Cazoo. In fact, the adverts suggest the Cazoo and Autotrader 
valuations are the most accurate reflection of the market value of Ms Bs car.
As I dont think esure provided Ms B with a fair valuation for her car, Im satisfied the 
complaint should be upheld. I dont think it would be fair to direct esure to use the average 
value suggested by all the motor trade guides because as mentioned above, there isnt an 
even spread across the guides and the Cazoo and Autotrader valuations appear to be the 
most accurate. I therefore direct esure to use the average of these two guides (Autotrader 
and Cazoo) to settle the claim. This amount is £38,665.
I appreciate esure have tried to follow our established approach, and Autotrader valuations 
are a recent addition. However, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied esure didnt offer 
Ms B a fair market value for her car. This is something they could reasonably have done if 
they had given more consideration to the circumstances before disregarding Cazoo.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
increase the settlement of Ms Bs claim for the total loss of her car based on a valuation of 
£38,665. They should add simple interest to the balance payable to Ms B at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date they originally settled the claim to the date they make payment.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms B how much they have taken off. 
They should also give Ms B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman