DRN-4442339
The complaint
Mr P complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered an unreasonable settlement for 
his motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr Ps van was stolen. He claimed against his Admiral motor insurance policy. After 
becoming frustrated with how it was handling his claim he made a complaint. He wasnt 
happy with the market value Admiral was basing its settlement offer on, it not paying for 
aftermarket items and unreasonable delay.
Admiral issued a complaint response in March 2023. It accepted it had caused delays. It 
offered Mr P £500 compensation for the related distress and inconvenience. It didnt accept 
the settlement was based on an incorrect valuation of Mr Ps vehicle. In April 2023 Admiral 
provided a further complaint response. It offered Mr P a further £75 compensation to 
apologise for some poor administration. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says Admiral has caused him to be 
£16,000 in debt through its delay and low settlement offer. This mainly consists of a hire van 
to enable him to continue working. To resolve his complaint he asked Admiral to cover those 
losses. He wants it to settle his claim on a market value of £19-20,000, accept his claims for 
after-market and personal items and pay him additional compensation. 
Our Investigator recommended Admiral base the settlement on a market value of £18,568 
(including VAT) rather than its figure of £13,866. He didnt ask it to cover aftermarket or 
personal items. The Investigator wasnt persuaded by Mr Ps evidence that Admiral should 
reimburse his van hire costs. Finally he said Admiral should pay an additional £275 
compensation (making at total of £850).
Mr P accepted that assessment, but Admiral didnt. It offered a settlement based on a 
valuation of £17,056 and an additional £150 compensation. As the complaint wasnt resolved 
it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P accepted the Investigators assessment of his complaint. Neither he nor Admiral 
disputed his findings on the after-market, personal items and hire cost complaint points. As 
those issues are settled, Ive only considered the market value and additional compensation 
points disputed by Admiral. 
Mr Ps entitled to have an amount for VAT included in his vehicles valuation. For simplicity 
Ive used valuation figures inclusive of the tax. Admirals final settlement, before he came to 
this service, was based on a valuation of £13,866. 
Mr Ps policy provides for a cash sum to replace a total loss vehicle. The terms say the most 
Admiral will pay is its market value. Thats defined as the cost of replacing it with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately 
before the loss had happened. It says the value is based on research from industry 
recognised motor trade guides. 
Our Investigator found Admirals valuation had been produced using incorrect mileage for 
Mr Ps vehicle  103,000 against the actual of 82,800. He checked three recognised trade 
guides using the lower mileage. That was based on a mileage recorded in a MOT a few days 
before the loss. Admiral now agree its a fairer mileage to use.      
These valuations were given - A) £18,771, B) £14,034 and C) £18,580. Following the 
Investigators assessment Admiral accepted the valuation needs to be higher  but it 
objected to the Investigators disregard of B as an outlier. Admiral says B is from an 
established valuation tool that extracts data from actual selling prices. So it made a 
counteroffer based on the average of A, B and C. 
But I agree with the Investigator. Bs valuation is significantly out of line when compared to A 
and C. Adverts provided by Mr P support it being too low. So it seems likely A and C 
represent a fairer reflection of the market. 
The Investigator recommended a fair market value to be an average of A and C. I agree with 
that approach. So Admiral will need to settle Mr Ps claim based on a market value of 
£18,675  which as I said is inclusive of VAT. 
Admirals already paid a settlement based on its own low valuation. So it will need to pay the 
difference between that, and one based on a market value of £18,675. If it feels its required 
to clear any outstanding finance, it should do that first. Anything remaining should be paid to 
Mr P. To recognise him being unfairly without those funds it should add simple interest at 8% 
to what it pays him  applied from the date it paid the initial settlement to the date of final 
settlement. 
Our Investigator recommended Admiral pay £275 compensation in addition to the £575 
already offered. A total of £850. Admiral didnt accept that. It accepted issues with its 
handling of the claim. But felt an additional £150 (£725 total) would be more appropriate. 
I agree with the Investigators proposal. Admiral initially offered an even lower settlement. It 
then continued with its low settlement offer for some time. This was significantly below a fair 
market value. The van was mainly used by Mr P for employment purposes. He hasnt been 
able to provide reasonable evidence of additional costs incurred because of Admirals poor 
handling of the claim. But I accept being without his own van or adequate funds to replace it 
had an impact on his working life across an extended period. 
Im also satisfied from Mr Ps testimony that Admirals poor handling of the claim has caused 
him personal distress and inconvenience over many months. So Im satisfied a total of £850 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to: 
settle Mr Ps claim based on a market value of £18,675  adding simple interest to 
any additional amount paid to him (as set out above) and
pay him a total of £850 compensation (including any payments already made). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman