DRN-3119167
The complaint
Mrs L complains Next Retail Limited trading as Next unfairly defaulted her account.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mrs L doesnt dispute she placed an order in September 2019. However, she 
disagrees with the interest and charges added to the balance. She also doesnt think 
its fair her account was defaulted. She says she would have made a payment if 
shed been prompted to do so by receiving a statement from Next, and she would 
normally receive these by email  however, she says she didnt receive any 
statements or any other correspondence from Next, by email or post from September 
2019 onwards. She only became aware of the outstanding balance when she 
received a letter from a debt collections agency in June 2020.
Next has provided us with information that shows in September 2019, a statement 
was at least posted to Mrs L  and this detailed when a payment needed to be made 
towards the account. Mrs L said the statement was sent to her previous address, so 
she didnt receive it. However, the evidence theyve provided also shows 
approximately 14 emails (statements and requests for payment) were sent to Mrs L 
between October 2019 and April 2020. All these emails explained her account was in 
arrears and needed to be repaid. The email address on their system matches the 
one we have, so Im satisfied the emails were addressed correctly. Its for that reason 
Im satisfied Next took reasonable steps to notify Mrs L of the balance she owed, and 
when she needed to pay.
Ive noted what Mrs L has said about Next sending paper statements to her previous 
address, and what shes said about notifying them of her new address in 2019. 
However, shes not been able to tell us when this happened. Also, having reviewed 
Nexts system notes for 2019, Ive not seen any records of calls from Mrs L about her 
address. So, in the absence of this evidence, I cant fairly say Next did something 
wrong by using her previous address before it was updated in March 2020. Given 
that they sent a letter to Mrs Ls current address in April 2020, I cant say Next are at 
fault for her not knowing about the default until June 2020 when she received a letter 
from a debt collection agency.
Mrs L had her account with Next for over five years. Ive seen a sample of the credit 
agreement she would have signed when the account was opened, and this clearly 
explains that if a balance is owing at least the minimum payment needs to be paid 
each month. Having seen the way she managed her account before 
September 2019; Im satisfied she understood what she was obligated to do under 
the terms of this agreement when using her account. So, while Ive noted that Mrs L 
has said she would always wait to receive a statement before making payment, 
I cant agree it removes the obligation she had to repay the amount she borrowed. 
Mrs L knew shed placed an order, so she would have known she needed to make 
payments towards her account. Therefore, she could have reached out to Next at 
any point from September 2019, to June 2020 to find out what she owed. As she 
didnt do that, I dont consider it would be fair to ask Next to remove the interest and 
charges that were correctly applied to her account following non-payment.
I am sorry to hear that Mrs L has been through a difficult time after losing a parent. 
So, I appreciate her Next account may not have been a priority. However, while 
I empathise with her situation, it doesnt persuade me that her complaint should be 
upheld. Ultimately, both Next and Mrs L were responsible for ensuring her account 
was managed correctly. In this case, Ive not seen evidence that persuades me 
Nexts actions prevented Mrs L from fulfilling her obligations under her agreement 
with them. Because of this, I dont consider the default, markers on her credit file, nor 
the interest and charges applied to her account were unfair in the circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ls frustrations, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint about Next Retail Limited 
trading as Next.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman