DRN-4115301
The complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to meet its obligations under her home 
assistance insurance policy.
Miss Hs policy is administered by a third-party company on Avivas behalf and all her 
correspondence has been with this company. However, Aviva is the policy underwriter, so 
her complaint is against Aviva. Any reference to Aviva in my decision includes its agents, 
including the administrator.
What happened
Miss H had a home assistance policy underwritten by Aviva from June 2000 until June 2022, 
when she switched to another insurer. 
During her new insurers boiler health check in November 2022, its engineer identified 
several faults. The insurer said these were pre-existing faults that Miss H had to rectify for it 
to be able to service and cover her boiler. The engineer issued a warning notice that said the 
boiler wasnt safe for use.
Miss H complained to Aviva. She said its engineers should have identified these pre-existing 
faults during the boilers annual service and either repaired them or told Miss H to arrange 
repairs.
Aviva didnt agree. While it noted repairs to the boiler in November 2020 and January 2022, 
it said its engineers hadnt found any other issues that needed to be brought to Miss Hs 
attention.
Miss H brought her complaint to this service. She believes Aviva failed to deliver what was 
covered by her policy. She says having to replace her boiler caused her financial difficulty as 
well as unnecessary stress and worry. She also says she wouldnt have switched insurer if 
shed known about the boilers pre-existing faults.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think Avivas engineers were responsible for the faults identified by Miss Hs new insurer. 
She didnt think Aviva should be asked to contribute to the cost of Miss Hs new boiler. 
Miss H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs Aviva policy booklet sets out what was covered by her policy. It includes an annual 
boiler service but doesnt cover any maintenance or remedial work that isnt part of the 
boiler service. The booklet says: If during your Boiler Service the engineer identifies a 
fault, we will carry out a repair if you have insurance with us, provided it is covered under the 
terms and conditions. If maintenance work is identified HomeServe will advise you and this 
will need to be rectified at your cost.
Miss H has effectively complained that Aviva hasnt met its policy terms because its 
engineers failed to identify necessary maintenance work during the annual boiler service.
Aviva sent us the boiler repair history and annual service notes. These show:
June 2020. Initial health check. The engineer noted signs of corrosion within the 
boiler, but no damage to any parts so this was not deemed a concern and the boiler 
passed the health check.
November 2020. Miss H reported a fault. The engineer noted that pipe work to the 
meter was squashed and fitted a new fan. 
January 2022. Annual service. The engineer confirmed that he had fitted a new 
electrode kit from his fan stock as the original had badly perished.
The key issues identified by Miss Hs new insurers engineer were:
Flue gas duct required.
Flue seals required.
Corrosion inside the combustion chamber.
Electric cables not clipped to wall.
External condense NCS recommend flue clip to flue.
This engineer concluded the faults on flue, electric cables, and condense safety issues 
meant he couldnt issue a safety certificate. 
Aviva asked its engineer to review the findings of the November 2022 health check. He 
agreed that the engineer should have identified the problems with the flue leak, wiring, flue 
clip, and condense if they were present in January 2022. However, he said: the problem we 
have here is that the third party has diagnosed items but not given specifics regarding 
dimensions etc. In other words, there isnt enough information in the recent health check to 
determine when the faults occurred.
Similarly, the problem I have is theres no evidence these issues were present in January 
2022. Aviva has provided evidence that the flue and ventilation met safety standards in 
January 2022. Miss H hasnt provided anything to contradict this, for example an 
independent expert report to show Avivas engineers should have identified the faults found 
in the November 2022 health check.
Also, it isnt clear to me why Miss H had to replace, rather than repair, her boiler. Id 
generally expect to see a note saying the boiler was BER (Beyond Economical Repair) but 
that isnt the case here. NCS means Not to Current Standards but the part is still technically 
safe. The corrosion had been identified by Avivas engineers, but it says this was a cosmetic 
issue rather than a failure. The new insurers engineer didnt tick the immediately 
dangerous box on the warning notice and simply recorded Parts Req. 
Finally, I note that Miss Hs boiler was 14 years old when she switched insurer. The typical 
domestic boiler will last 10-15 years, so its possible Miss Hs boiler was getting towards the 
end of its lifespan.
I understand that replacing her boiler has caused Miss H financial difficulty as well as a great 
deal of stress and she has my sincere sympathies. But, based on the evidence, I dont think 
it would be reasonable for me to hold Aviva liable for the faults identified by her new insurer. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman