DRN-3844480
The complaint
Mr P has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined part of a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a storm, Mr P found damage to the boundary wall, the porch and the gable verge 
pointing of his home. So, he contacted QIC to make a claim. QIC sent a surveyor to assess 
the damage. QIC agreed to cover the internal damage to the porch. But it said it wouldnt 
cover the damage to the wall, the verge pointing on the roof and the external damage to the 
porch, as this was due to pre-existing issues. When Mr P complained to QIC, it maintained 
its decision to decline part of the claim.
So, Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the 
evidence showed there were pre-existing issues with the boundary wall. However, the 
damage to the porch roof and the verge pointing seemed to have happened during the storm 
and QIC hadnt provided evidence to show there were pre-existing issues. She said QIC 
should cover the cost of any repairs Mr P had already paid for, with interest, or otherwise 
meet the claim for the internal damage, verge roof and porch roof. She also said QIC should 
pay £300 compensation due to issues with how it dealt with both the claim and complaint.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage this was found. These 
showed windspeeds of up to 74mph. Such windspeeds would normally be regarded as 
hurricane force winds, which can cause devastation. I also think that a storm could cause 
damage to a wall, a roof or other parts of a property. So, I think the answer to the first two 
questions is yes.
Ive also thought about the third question, which is about whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. Ive considered the boundary wall. When the surveyor visited, he 
found parts of the wall that were still standing were leaning due to the cement age and that 
the whole wall was loose. Im aware Mr P has also said some of the wall was leaning before 
the storm, although he said the part that fell wasnt leaning. I think the evidence shows there 
was an issue before the storm that affected the stability of the wall. The policy didnt cover 
pre-existing issues such as wear and tear or gradual deterioration. So, I think it was fair for 
QIC to decline this part of the claim.
Ive also looked at the damage to the porch. QIC accepted the internal damage as accidental 
damage and offered £1,191.79 to settle it, which I think was fair. So, I havent considered 
that damage further. However, Ive looked at the damage to the porch roof. The surveyor 
said no storm related damage was found and that the roof had not moved or lifted. Mr P said 
water had leaked into the porch, which hadnt happened before the storm. While the 
complaint was with this service, QIC reviewed the porch again and provided some further 
photos. It said there was evidence of a repair previously being carried out to the sealant, 
which it said showed there were issues before the storm. Ive looked at the photos and can 
see a large gap just below the roof. Although I could see some sealant, I didnt see anything 
that was clearly a previous repair or that persuades me there was evidence of a pre-existing 
issue with the porch roof. As a result, I require QIC to deal with the claim for the porch roof, 
as I dont think there is sufficient evidence to show it was fair to apply the exclusion.
Ive also looked at the damage to the verge pointing. QIC declined this part of the claim 
based on the surveyors findings, which were the verge point is crumbling and falling out 
due to age on the rear gable end. Mr P told this service hed had the roof replaced less than 
five years ago. QIC later told this service that mortar wouldnt just fall out unless there was 
a defect and that This highlights further that the mortar has deteriorated and this has been 
allowed to happen during storm winds. 
Given when the roof was replaced, which was less than five years before the damage was 
found, I dont think this supports the surveyors findings that the age of the roof was the 
issue. QIC has also said the mortar wouldnt simply fall out unless there was a pre-existing 
issue. But, it hasnt been suggested that the mortar just fell out. There was a storm, with 
hurricane force winds, and Mr P has said that the storm caused the damage. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded there was evidence of a pre-existing issue or that it was 
reasonable for QIC to apply an exclusion. As a result, I think QIC also needs to deal with this 
part of the claim.
Ive also looked at how the claim and complaint were dealt with. Mr P was offered a 
settlement. He has said he felt pressured to accept this settlement despite it not being clear 
what this was for or why not all of his claim had been accepted. QIC also seemed to close 
the claim without providing Mr P with the requested information on his claim. There also 
appeared to be confusion on QICs part about whether Mr Ps concerns were being 
addressed as part of the claim handling itself or as a formal complaint. I think this caused Mr 
P concern and also meant he had to persist with QIC to try and ensure his claim was 
assessed and that it was clear what QICs position was and why. Having thought about the 
claim and complaint as a whole, I think QIC should pay Mr P £300 compensation, as I think 
this fairly reflects the impact on him of how his claim was dealt with.
Putting things right
QIC should settle the claim for the internal damage, gable verge roof and the porch roof as 
storm damage. If Mr P has already had repairs carried out, QIC should pay his costs for 
doing so. It should confirm how Mr P wants the internal damage to be settled and either pay 
him £1,191.79 or carry out the repairs. QIC must pay interest on any cash settlement and 
also pay Mr P £300 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim for the internal damage, gable verge roof and the porch roof as storm 
damage in line with the remaining terms of the policy, without applying an exclusion for 
wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
If Mr P has already paid for the repairs, pay him the amount he paid for those repairs.
Confirm with Mr P how he wants the internal damage to be dealt with and then either pay 
him a cash settlement of £1,191.79 for that work or arrange for the repairs to be 
completed.
For any cash settlement, pay interest on that amount from the date the claim was first 
made to the date on which QIC Europe Ltd makes the payment.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr P £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman