DRN-1394380
 
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1998 Mr H bought PPI at the same time as he applied for a mortgage. The policy gave 
him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to take it 
out. Mr H says he took the mortgage out at a young age and didnt understand what the PPI 
covered, he felt pressured to take it. The bank disputes this, saying its more likely than not 
that the features of the cover and the optional nature were verbally explained in good time 
before the sale concluded. I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax no longer 
has Mr Hs paperwork from the sale, or any sample documents. But thats not surprising as it 
was over 20 years ago. Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs comments, but I also have to take 
into account how long ago the meeting was and how that might affect what he recalls. I 
havent been able to find any other evidence to support his claim that he was pressured. 
Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly uphold Mr Hs complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H and I think it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr H was entitled to six months full pay 
and six months half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his 
work benefits for up to 12 months for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 
12 months redundancy cover. This would have allowed him to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment from his employer, giving increased financial stability at an already 
difficult time.Mr H was borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on his home. Given how 
serious the effects of not keeping up with his mortgage repayments could have been, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mr H if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr H all the information he needed before he decided to buy 
PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions 
or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better information wouldve 
changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr H has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman