DRN-2886500
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding her responsible for a credit card which she 
says she didnt take out.
What happened
A credit card in Mrs Hs name was opened with Lloyds in 2007. Over the next few years, a 
number of purchases and balance transfers were made using the card and a number of 
payments were made towards the outstanding balance. But then a number of monthly 
repayments were missed and the card was defaulted and closed in 2010.
Mrs H says the credit card was opened by her husband without her consent and that she 
only found out about it when he passed away in 2019. Mrs H says that, when their daughter 
became ill, her and her husband agreed that she would work and look after their daughter 
and he would manage the household and all the finances. So she never checked their 
accounts or questioned anything, but her husband ran up a number of debts  of which this 
credit card is one. Mrs H says she reported the card to Lloyds as fraud as soon as she found 
out about it.
Lloyds investigated Mrs Hs complaint but said it thought she was aware of, or at least 
complicit in, the use of the credit card. It said multiple letters and statements had been sent 
to her over the life of the account and transactions relating to the credit card had been made 
on her personal account. So it continued to hold her responsible for the card. Mrs H wasnt 
satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by 
holding Mrs H liable for the credit card. They said transactions relating to the credit card had 
been made on her personal account and that it appeared she had benefitted from the money 
spent on the card. Mrs H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive I must make a decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that was filled out when this credit card was opened, 
as well as the signature mandate that Lloyds holds for Mrs H. And I dont think the signature 
on the application form matches Mrs Hs signature from the signature mandate. But I dont 
think this necessarily means Mrs H didnt agree to or wasnt aware of the card being taken 
out. Shes said it was agreed her husband would manage all the finances, so it may be that 
Mrs H was just unavailable to sign the form at the time.
Mrs H has been consistent throughout her complaint that her husband managed the 
finances and she didnt know anything about this credit card. And shes said he was at 
home, whereas she was going to work, so he would have been able to intercept any post 
relating to this card. But there would have been several letters sent out when the credit card 
was opened, as well as monthly statements sent out each month and then more letters when 
monthly payments were missed and the card was being defaulted. And the card was open 
over a number of years and Mrs H wont have been at work every day during that time.
At least some of the money for the payments made towards the credit card also appears to 
have come from a personal account in Mrs Hs sole name. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mrs H wasnt aware of this account. And she could have monitored this account in a number 
of ways, including the monthly paper statements, telephone banking or internet banking.
So I think its unlikely Mrs H was completely unaware of this credit card. Or, if she was 
unaware, I think this is likely because she chose not to monitor her accounts, rather than 
because she was denied the opportunity to do so.
Due to the amount of time that has passed, its not possible to say how the entire balance on 
the credit card was spent. But the transaction history for the card does show a number of 
payments to retail shops and supermarkets, and payments to a company used for managing 
household bills. And, as Mrs H says her husband was managing the household, I think its 
likely thats what these transactions were for and that she therefore also benefitted from at 
least some of the money spent on the credit card.
I sympathise with the position Mrs H has found herself in and I recognise that this decision 
will come as a disappointment to her. But, based on the evidence I have, I dont think I can 
fairly say its more likely than not that she was completely unaware of this credit card or that 
it would be fair to require Lloyds to stop holding her responsible for the outstanding balance 
from the credit card.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman