DRN-3673999
The complaint
Ms R complains about a conditional sale agreement in her name with Santander Consumer
(UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
What happened
Ms R tells us that in early 2020 she was looking to buy a car using finance. The type of deal
she wanted was one where shed make payments for four years and then own the car
outright by the end. Specifically, Ms R expected to make 48 equal monthly payments and
nothing more. Further, she wanted to pay less than £200 per month in repayments. To get
the deal she wanted Ms R was prepared to part exchange the car she already owned.
Moreover, she was prepared to pay an upfront deposit.
Through a family friend Ms R heard about a third-party company who I will call F. In the
past, F had helped that family friend to acquire a car, so it appears Ms R felt reassured by
this connection. Ms R contacted F to help her find both the car and the finance. According to
Ms R, it appears that F said it could both find her the right car and put her in touch with a
finance company that could supply the finance to fund the purchase of the car. Ms R and F
mostly corresponded by WhatsApp. Ms R has provided us with copies of this 
correspondence.
After some to and fro F appeared to find the ideal car and the ideal finance for Ms R.
Therefore, Ms R tells us she paid a deposit of £6,000 in total. In particular she tells us that 
this was made up of two bank transfers which together totalled £1,000 and then she paid 
£5,000 in cash. Ms R says the cash was a gift from her parents, they do not use digital 
banking and preferred therefore to give her the money in cash.
At some point during the negotiations Ms R was introduced by F to an individual who it
turned out worked for another third-party company I will call L. But Ms R position is that at 
the time she thought both individuals worked for the same company.
Its also Ms Rs position that the employee of F and the employee of L were both there when 
she handed over the £5,000 in cash. Ms R tells us the employee of L gave her a receipt for 
the £5,000. But the employee only gave her this receipt when she insisted that he did. I will 
refer to this receipt as Document 1.
Ms R says she also part-exchanged her car as part of the deal. Ms Rs stance is that she
was to get £1,000 for this. 
After paying her deposit and handing over her original car Ms R tells us she picked up the 
new car which she was very happy with. Further, at this point, she got the documents she 
needed to register the car in her name and the manual for the car. Shortly afterwards Ms R 
received a welcome letter from Santander, that letter mentioned that your supplying dealer 
will have provided you with a copy of your finance agreement
However, Ms R indicates that she never saw any other paperwork, at this time, including the
finance agreement. Neither did she recall being asked to sign a finance agreement by e-
signature. Ms R explains that she did not question this as the employee of L told her the
paperwork would follow.
Shortly after Ms R acquired the car, which was in February 2020, the country went into
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms R explains that she thought this was why the 
paperwork had not come through. After a while though, when the lockdown restrictions 
eased, Ms R chased the employee of F for the paperwork by WhatsApp. In reply, he 
indicated, also via WhatsApp, that hed sort this. But Ms R indicates that she heard nothing 
further from him after this.
Eventually, seemingly in December 2020, Ms R contacted Santander directly for the
paperwork. Once Ms R received the paperwork, it appears she was surprised and dismayed
to find out a number of things, namely:
Her agreement with Santander involved 49 not 48 payments. The 49th payment was
what is known as a balloon payment. This is a lump sum paid at the end of a
conditional sale agreement if the consumer wishes to purchase the car. The amount
of the balloon payment is £7,720.83. Ms R tells us she did not know about this
payment, she could not afford this payment and she would not have gone ahead with
the contract if shed known about it.
The deposit noted on the agreement was £3,000 not the £6,000 she says she
handed over.
The email address and the contact number written on the agreement, were not hers.
The contract had what appeared to be her e-signature on it, which she says she did
not authorize either F or L to fill in on the finance agreement.
Ms R complained to Santander. Ms R wants Santander to acknowledge the payment of the
£6,000 deposit and also to remove the 49th payment i.e. the balloon payment from the
agreement.
Santander responded to say the following. F acted as a broker. It had asked L about F. In
response L had indicated that it had had issues in the past with the broker F. The issues
concerned F charging consumers finders fees. It went on to say that F was renowned for
trying to charge finders fees. L, suggested Ms R had to have been aware of the finders
fee.
Moreover, L told Santander that the documents it had showed that Ms R had only paid a 
deposit of £3,000. These documents included:
A sales invoice between Santander and L (Document 2). The sales invoice came
about because originally, L owned the car. It sold it to Santander and then Santander
supplied the car to Ms R, this is how conditional sale agreements normally operate.
A handwritten ledger from L showing it received £3,000 in cash as a deposit for the
car (Document 3).
A document headed deposit which L says was a copy of the deposit receipt which itgave to Ms R (Document 4).
Information to show what cash it had paid to Santander in relation to the deposit
(Document 5).
Moreover, L denied that it had created and given Ms R Document 1.
L also pointed out that the finance agreement showed the deposit paid was £3,000. L
suggested Ms R needed to look to F if she thinks there is a discrepancy between the amount
she paid for the deposit and the amount L documented. L indicated that it no
longer had a relationship with F.
As to the balloon payment L suggested it had gone through the entire agreement with Ms R 
and then she had it. This included telling her about the balloon payment. It also sent a
vehicle handover form (Document 6) which it suggests showed it discussed the agreement
with Ms R before she signed the agreement. It appears it also suggested this showed it had
given Ms R a copy of the finance agreement at the time it was completed.
Santander indicated it had reached out to F too. At first, according to Santander, F told 
Santander it would need to discuss these issues with L. However, when pressed by 
Santander who told F it had discussed matters with L already, F declined to discuss the 
matter any further.
Santander rejected Ms Rs complaint relying on the points raised by L. It added that its 
position is that Ms R had signed the agreement. By signing the agreement Ms R was 
indicating that she had read and understood the agreement. Santander contended it could 
not be held responsible if Ms R did not read the agreement before signing it.
Finally, Santander suggested that any incorrect contact details that may have been taken
down and added to the finance agreement were a matter for L, not it.
Dissatisfied, Ms R complained to our service.
Once Ms Rs complaint was with us, we asked both parties and L and F for further
information. Ms R provided us with a letter from her parents confirming they gave her £5,000
in cash and in addition repeated her previous position, she also complained that Santander
had not taken the information she provided as seriously as it took Ls information. Santander
and L repeated their stances too. After a bit of back and forth, F told us this about its 
dealings with L.
OK so what can I tell you about the famous [L] this could be a long-winded email. So, I
worked for a gentleman there that carries himself under several names for whatever
reasons. I used to have to refer to him as [name 1] or [name 2] when I used to work for him /
generate leads. Yes, in February 2020 I generated a lead for [name of employee of L] at L
with the customer [Ms R] if I remember correctly, I think they purchased a [make of car] and
they did have a part exchange yes.
Once she knew what Santander were saying about Document 1 Ms R suggested she now 
wanted the police to get involved. This was because in her opinion Santander is suggesting 
she fabricated Document 1. To her mind this amounts to fraud therefore the police should be 
involved.
Further, Ms R sent us a newspaper article about offences committed by F which trading 
standards had investigated. It appears that F agreed to settle outstanding finance on cars used in part-exchange deals. But then did not settle the finance in line with what had been 
agreed with the consumers.
L also provided us with new information about the contact details on the contract, it told us F
would have obtained the information needed for the application direct from the customer
and then entered it directly into Santanders portal.
I issued a provisional decision. I said the following about what Id provisionally decided and 
why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I need to deal with Ms Rs latest point about criminal matters, first. This service does not deal
with criminal matters. It follows that we have no power to make any findings about criminal
matters. Should Ms R wish to go to the police to ask the police to get involved that is entirely
a matter for her.
The parties disagree about all the significant matters in this complaint. Where the evidence
is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The roles of the main participants
The roles of the principal participants are important here because the law says that a finance
company can in certain circumstances be held responsible for certain acts of credit brokers.
In particular, the finance company can be held to account where the credit broker(s)
misrepresented the agreement.
The definition of credit broking includes introducing an individual to a person (P) with a
view to P entering into by way of business as lender a regulated credit agreement. The
person doing the introducing is credit broking. But the definition also covers where the
individual who is looking for the credit, does not come to the credit broker directly but comes
via a third party. In other words, if person A introduces person B to person C, in order that
person C can then introduce person B to person D for the purpose of entering into a
regulated credit agreement, then both person A and person C are credit broking.
Misrepresentation here means where the credit broker gave inaccurate information that led
to the consumer entering into the agreement. In particular, Section 56 (Section 56) of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974) deals with misrepresentations made in antecedent
negotiations by the credit broker. This means, amongst other things, it deals with what was
said by the credit broker to the consumer before the credit agreement was entered into.
Section 56 only applies to particular types of agreements. One of the types of agreement
covered is conditional sale agreements.I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things when I decide what is fair and
reasonable. So, in this complaint I am first going to look at what role F and L played here.
Then I will look at if I think that F and L made relevant misrepresentations in the course of
the antecedent negotiations. If Im persuaded on balance that this happened, I would think it
is fair and reasonable that Santander take responsibility for this and for putting things right
for Ms R.
There seems to be no disagreement that L was credit broking. Santander and L also refer to
F acting as a broker. Even F has told us its role was in essence a credit broker although it
styles itself as an introducer. It also tells us it worked for L. In any event, I am satisfied that 
Ms R came to F for the purpose of finding finance to acquire a car, and it introduced her to L
who in turn introduced her to Santander. In all the circumstances I am satisfied that F as well
as L acted as a credit broker in relation to the finance provided by Santander. Alternatively, I
am satisfied that F was working for L when L was acting as a credit broker.
Misrepresentation
The next question is what was most likely said in the course of those antecedent
negotiations by whom and did any of it amount to misrepresentation?
Ms R tells us about both verbal and written misrepresentation. 
By their very nature such alleged verbal conditions are hard to substantiate and I therefore 
have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities. However, I do think 
what was said in the course of the pre contract conversations was likely to be in line with the 
written contact between Ms R and F in the form of the WhatsApp communications. I have no
reason to doubt the accuracy of the copies of these WhatsApp messages.
In these written communications F says things to Ms R about the terms of the agreement
that are not reflected in the official paperwork. Santanders stance is that only the written
documents provided by L reflect what happened in the antecedent negotiations. I disagree
with Santanders position. I find that the WhatsApp correspondence most likely reflects what
was said in the pre contract negotiations. I dont find it likely that Ms R and F said one thing
in those messages and then something completely different was agreed when it came
making the deal. 
Moreover, I am not persuaded that L accurately reflected what was agreed in the documents 
it has provided to Santander. I will say more about this below. Moreover, I think Santander 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the things that F said in the antecedent 
negotiations on the basis that F acted as a credit broker in relation to the agreement it 
entered into with Ms R. But I also think I can go further and say that the representations 
made by F were also made by L directly. It follows that Santander can also
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the representations of L. I say this for the
following reasons. F and L seem now to be suggesting that each did not know what the other 
was doing or saying. However, I think it is clear based on all the information I have seen that 
they formerly had a close enough arrangement that F was able to supply Ms R not only with 
details of at least one car that L had but also to tell her about funding options for that car. 
Moreover, what F and L say about their working relationship suggests that they were 
working very closely together at the relevant time. I find it unlikely then that L did not know 
what F was saying to Ms R and I find it likely that it was providing some of the responses 
that F gave to Ms R such as about likely repayment amounts. I also find that most likely, L 
and F were saying the same things to Ms R when they were all together.
Moreover, in the alternative F suggests it was working for L and I find that likely too, in the
circumstances, given the apparent closeness of their relationship. Therefore, L and byextension Santander can be held to account for relevant misrepresentations made by F on
this basis too.
When I think about if it is likely F and L gave Ms R incorrect information, I take on board that
F indicates that L did not always behave in a straightforward manner and L suggests the
same about F. I find it significant that these two entities who worked together closely should
have formed such opinions about each other. In other words, Ms R tells us F and L gave her
inaccurate information and [it supports her case that] F suggests L might have behaved in 
that way and L suggests the same about F.
I also find it significant that rather than deny Ms Rs version of events outright, F and L in
general merely suggest that any questioner needs to talk to the other not it.
The newspaper article about F does not talk about exactly the type of behaviour that Ms R is
complaining about on the part of F. That said, it does suggest that F had a degree of sharp
practice in how it went about its business.
All of this impacts on the weight I feel able to give to the information provided by F and L
especially when it comes to what money was handed over and what they told Ms R about
the contract.
Im satisfied from the information I have seen that Ms R paid F £1,000 and she believed it
was for a deposit. I am also satisfied that Ms Rs parents did provide her with £5,000 of
cash.
Ms R has provided us with Document 1. It shows, on the face of it, that L accepted it
received £5,000 in cash from Ms R. Santander suggests Document 1 was not provided by L.
If I accepted Santanders stance, I would have to be persuaded that Ms R likely created this
document herself. Document 1 bears Ls logo. The signature on Document 1 looks like the
signature on Document 2. Moreover, if Ms R was going to raise an unsubstantiated
complaint about the deposit, it would seem strange she did not do this when she acquired
the car but instead waited months to do so. On balance I dont agree that Document 1 was
not created by L and given to Ms R.
Document 2 shows the deposit L told Santander about but just because L told Santander the
deposit was £3,000 does not rule out that Ms R handed over the £6,000, she tells us about.
Document 3 does not persuade me it appears merely to be a handwritten extract from Ls
ledger which it seems could have been written at any time. I note there are no entries after
the entry relating to Ms Rs contract.
Document 4 I note has a space for the customer to sign to say that the deposit was £3,000
but the space is blank. It is not clear why L went to the trouble of drawing up a receipt
specifically to document what deposit was paid but then did not get Ms R to sign it. I am not
persuaded therefore that this document accurately reflects the transaction.
There is no dispute that L only sent Santander £3,000 that is all that Document 5 shows.
I recognise that the conditional sale agreement set out the deposit and the deposit there is
noted as £3,000. And I accept that if Ms R had seen this document when she acquired the
car, she ought to have read it. Not least because it would have given her a chance to
question the deposit that had been noted. I also agree with Santander, that as a starting
point where a consumer signs an agreement they should be taken to have read and
understood it.That said I find it significant that Ms Rs correct contact details were not on the agreement. It
does not appear to be contested that the contact details on the contract were not hers. Im
satisfied that the wrong details on the contract would have prevented Ms R from being sent
the agreement by Santander. I am not persuaded by what Santander and L have said about
how these contact details came to be filled in. Ms R was Ls customer, so it seems odd that
L says F filled in the details. That might have happened but that then makes it more likely
that F was working for L as F suggests.
In any event, the first time that Santander is able to demonstrate that Ms R did receive a
copy of the agreement, that is months after it started, Ms R complained about it. I find her
actions to be consistent with her version of events. That is that she was never presented
with a copy of this contract at the time the contract was made. I also note the WhatsApp
messages show Ms R chasing the paperwork which I dont find it likely she would have done
if she had seen it before. I am satisfied that Ms R did want to enter into a finance agreement
with Santander. But I am also satisfied that on balance Ms R was not presented with the
actual agreement when she acquired the car. Rather I am persuaded that she was told
verbally that the agreement was in line with what she has told us was said. And Ms R relied 
on this verbal representation. It follows that I dont find that in agreeing to enter into the
agreement with Santander Ms R was also accepting that her deposit was £3,000.
I note that the WhatsApp correspondence is in part about deposits, but there is no mention
of finders fees. The same correspondence confirms that £6,000 was paid for a deposit.
Moreover, L indicates that F had a history of not providing accurate information about
finders fees. It also suggests Ms R would have known about a finders fee. These two
positions appear to contradict each other. I mention Ls stance on this because it appears
that Santander seems to have adopted it as its own. Therefore, I am not persuaded that any
part of the £6,000 was for a finders fee.
For each of the individual reasons I have gone through above, in all the circumstances, I am
persuaded that the deposit Ms R paid was not reflected accurately on the finance
agreement. In other words, I am persuaded that Ms R paid a deposit of £6,000 to F and L
albeit I am also satisfied the full £6,000 deposit was never passed on to Santander.
From the information I have available to me I can see F carried on negotiations with Ms R
about monthly repayments and deposits. Ive seen nothing in those communications to
suggest that F mentioned anything about balloon payments. Rather, the talk was of monthly
repayments. Ill add for completeness that I am satisfied for the reasons that I have already
gone through that both L and Santander can be held responsible for these representations.
In addition, I dont find it persuasive that L has provided Document 6. Document 6 has a
section headed Documentation under that it says, finance agreement and this is ticked.
However, Document 6 is inaccurate on the face of it, against the statement I have been
offered finance options for my new vehicle both option yes and option no are ticked.
When L and Santander both agree that L offered to credit broker Santanders finance to Ms
R, so only yes should have been selected. Moreover, the document is unsigned although
there is a space where clearly the customer was meant to sign and a separate space where
L was meant to sign too.
I find it unlikely that Ms R provided the inaccurate contact details. I note the impact of this is
that on balance the first time Ms R saw the contract is when Santander provided it to her
months down the line. I have already mentioned above why Ms Rs actions support her
submission that she was not provided with a copy of the contract at the time it was made.
In addition, as I also mentioned above, I am persuaded that F and L did not always provideaccurate information to Ms R. And I have difficulty relying on the accuracy of the
submissions from F and L about this part of the complaint.
Moreover, I am persuaded that Ms R could not have afforded a balloon payment amounting
to thousands of pounds, and therefore it does not make sense for her to have entered an
agreement with such a clause in it.
For all of these individual reasons Im satisfied that Ms R was led to believe that she was
entering into an agreement with 48 equal payments and that she was not made aware of the
balloon payment. I am also satisfied that if Ms R had known about the balloon payment she
would not have entered into the agreement with Santander.
Further, Ms R complains that Santander did not take her as seriously as L. I see suggestions
of this in this complaint for example Santander suggesting that if there are incorrect contact
details on the contract that is a matter for L not it. The information I have seen about the
likely working practices of F and L might have merited I think further investigation. For all
these reasons I think Santander has not dealt with Ms R in the way she is entitled to expect.
I think this likely caused her to experience distress and inconvenience. I find it fair and
reasonable that Santander ought to pay Ms R £300 for this.
I have been persuaded that the contract was materially misrepresented by F and L and that 
it is fair and reasonable that Santander take responsibility for this. Therefore, Ms R is entitled 
to be put in the position she would have been in if things had been explained to her correctly.
But despite what Ms R asks for she is not entitled to be put in the position she would have
been in if the misrepresentation had been true. This is not the normal remedy for
misrepresentation. That means I cannot ask Santander to keep the agreement in place but
to strike out the requirement for the 49th payment.
However, what I can ask Santander to do is the following:
To end the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owed by Ms R and
nothing further showed as owing by Ms R on her credit file. Ms R does not own the
car, Santander does so Ms R must understand she will need to hand back the car.
To refund her £6,000 and to pay interest on that £6,000. The interest should be
calculated at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest should run from the date
Ms R made the deposit payments until the date of settlement.
Part-exchange
I can see that at first at least the part-exchange of the car was discussed. But then the
WhatsApp messages stop mentioning the part-exchange and the deposit and just talk about
the deposit.
I also notice that Ms R did not initially talk about part-exchange when she complained
although she gave detailed submissions.
That said, I think it is likely that the car that Ms R formerly possessed was handed over to F
and L but on what basis is not clear. There are a number of possibilities. On balance I dont
have enough information about this part of the deal to be able to say that there was a
misrepresentation made by F and L about this in the antecedent negotiations that Santander
must be responsible for on a fair and reasonable basis. it is fair and reasonable that 
Santander take responsibility for this.
My provisional decision was as follows:My provisional decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander
Consumer Finance must.
End the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing.
It must arrange with Ms R to retrieve its car at no cost to Ms R. And the retrieval must
happen at a mutually convenient time.
It must ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked
them to register on Ms Rs credit file about the finance agreement.
Refund Ms Rs deposit of £6,000. It must add interest to that deposit at the rate of 8%
simple per year. The interest to run from the dates the deposit was paid until the date
of settlement.
Pay Ms R £300 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited both Ms R and Santander to respond to my provisional decision, they both did.
In brief, Ms R accepted the provisional decision. However, she did express her 
disappointment about receiving no payment for her former car that she reiterated she had 
part exchanged as part of the deal that is the subject matter of this complaint.
In summary, Santander rejected the provisional decision. In particular, it repeated its stance 
that Ms R had signed the agreement so should be taken to have agreed with it. Further, it 
suggested that the only evidence that I had mentioned to support the finding that Ms R had 
paid a deposit of £6,000 was Document 1. Its stance is that Document 1 was forged. It 
added that it did not consider the signatures on Document 1 and Document 2 look alike. 
In addition, Santander also sent us a document from Ls solicitors responding to the 
provisional decision.  It was not clear though if Santander was adopting Ls response as its 
own, so we asked it about this. Santander let us know that the points made in the paragraph 
above were the points it relied on. Therefore to that limited extent it was adopting these 
points made by L. But the remainder of the points provided by Ls solicitors are not its points.
L provided new information. In summary, it suggested Ms R had been insistent about using 
F. F had wanted L to pay it an introductory fee of £1,000. L declined to do this and said it 
would not go ahead with the deal. Therefore, at this point Ms R had agreed to pay this 
introductory fee to F herself. 
In response Ms R repeated her position that at no time before she went ahead with the 
agreement was she made aware that F and L were not one and the same company. 
Therefore, she had no reason to think that F would be requiring or expecting a fee for 
introducing her to L. Moreover, she reiterated she had discussed only paying a deposit there 
was no talk of introductory fees.
In their responses to the provisional decision both Ms R and Santander have mentioned the 
condition of the car. Ms R suggests the car is in good condition. Santander talks about being 
entitled to recover money from Ms R under the agreement if the car is not returned to it in 
the condition required under the agreement.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Ms R and Santander for their responses to the provisional decision. It has been 
particularly helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their views on the 
provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller understanding of their 
respective positions and concerns. Ive thought about their responses, Ive reviewed the file 
again and revisited my provisional decision.
I note Ms Rs disappointment in relation to my finding about the car she tells us that she part 
exchanged. But in the circumstances, as she has raised no new arguments, in relation to 
this point, I have no proper basis for coming to a different conclusion from that which I 
reached in the provisional decision.
As I said in my provisional decision, as a starting point I agree with Santander where a 
consumer has signed an agreement they should be taken to have read and understood it. 
But, that is only the starting point. Santanders response suggests that all I need to take 
account of is whether the agreement is signed. I disagree, I need to take account of all 
relevant circumstances. In the provisional decision I explained in great detail why this was 
not the only relevant consideration. Moreover, I found that it was unlikely that Ms R had 
signed the agreement. Moreover, in the circumstances, I find it unlikely that Ms R gave either 
F or L her permission to sign on her behalf. I also set out in my provisional decision why I did 
think that Ms R had wanted nevertheless to enter into an agreement with Santander, just not 
the agreement she got. And I also set out why ultimately I was satisfied that the agreement 
had been materially misrepresented to Ms R. Therefore, it followed that Santander had to 
take steps to put things right. Nothing in Santanders response persuades me that it would 
be fair and reasonable to set aside all this further reasoning.
In my provisional decision, I set out several individual reasons that persuaded me that Ms R 
paid a deposit of £6,000. I did not base this finding solely on Document 1 as Santander 
suggests. Santander has not commented on those other individual reasons. Further, I also 
set out why I was not persuaded on balance that Document 1 had been created by Ms R 
rather than given to her by L. Whilst I accept that Santanders stance remains that L did not 
provide Document 1 and Ms R likely created it, merely restating its position again, (which 
Ive already considered), with no new reasoning does not persuade me that its version of 
events is the most likely version of events.
I have thought about if it is likely that Ms R would have been insistent about keeping F in the 
loop. I note why Ms R might have been so insistent about involving F is not explained. I have 
also thought about the sequencing of events as L has described it. From its explanation, out 
of the blue, Ms R was told she had to pay F £1,000 because L was not going to do so. And 
Ms R did not quibble. Rather she merely agreed to pay £1,000 there and then to F. Ms R 
appeared to have a limited budget for this purchase so how she could have afforded a 
surprise £1,000 at the last minute is not clear. I also find it significant that there was no 
mention of this fee in any of the pre contractual correspondence. Given the size of the fee I 
might have expected the fee to have been mentioned in the correspondence if this was 
something that had been in the offing. I also repeat what I said in my provisional decision 
that given the information I have seen this impacts the weight I feel able to give to the 
submissions of L. In the circumstances, for each of these individual reasons, I prefer Ms Rs 
version of events about this point.
I have not been persuaded by the responses to my provisional decision. It follows I have 
come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in it.I have made no findings about the current condition of the car. But from what Ms R tells us 
Santander will have no cause to charge her for end of contract repairs because they will not 
be necessary. But, in any event, nothing in this decision prevents Santander from pursuing 
Ms R for end of contract repairs. I have slightly amended the redress to reflect this. If 
however, Santander does seek to charge Ms R for end of contract repairs that will be a new 
complaint. In those circumstances she would have to complain to it first about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander
Consumer Finance must.
End the conditional sale agreement.
It must arrange with Ms R to retrieve its car at no cost to Ms R. And the retrieval must
happen at a mutually convenient time.
It must ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked
them to register on Ms Rs credit file about the finance agreement.
Refund Ms Rs deposit of £6,000. It must add interest to that deposit at the rate of 8%
simple per year. The interest to run from the dates the deposit was paid until the date
of payment.
Pay Ms R £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Santander must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Ms R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £300 from 
the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Ms R can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Ms R should refer back to Santander if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman