DRN-3490106
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt credit the correct amount into her account 
following a cash deposit she made in branch.
What happened
On 17 August 2021, Ms C says went into branch deposit some cash. She says shes 
confident she had £4,000, as she counted her money with her son before she left home and 
in a private room at the branch. 
Ms C says that a member of staff instructed her to use the pay in machine as there was no 
counter service available. When Ms C tried to pay the money in, the cash got stuck in the 
machine.
She explained two members of staff came over to help her and they took the cash out of the 
machine. She said they were moving back and forth with the money and she was then told 
her deposit was £500 short.
Unhappy with this, Ms C raised a complaint. HSBC said that during the transaction the pay 
in machine went out of service and some of Ms Cs cash was stuck. They explained a total 
of £2,440 was removed from the machine and a further £1,060 hadnt yet been deposited. 
This amounted to £3,500.
HSBC confirmed that an audit of the pay in machine showed it was balanced correctly and 
no discrepancies were found. They explained the cash was counted by two members of staff 
and a review of the CCTV footage found no issues.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had made an error. She was satisfied that neither the pay 
in machine nor the branch staff miscounted Ms Cs money. Ms C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. I know Ms C will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the journal roll for Ms Cs transaction. This shows there were two deposits 
attempted. During the first attempt the pay in machine accepted 99 notes. And at the second 
attempt the pay in machine accepted 23 notes. 
Both HSBC and Ms C have confirmed that the denomination of the notes as £20. Based on 
this, the total amount that was accepted by the pay in machine during the two deposit 
attempts was £2,440.
Ive looked at the audit report for the pay in machine for the day before the transaction. Im 
satisfied that the pay in machine had no cash left at 5:20pm on 16 August 2021. The audit 
report for the pay in machine from 17 August 2021, both before the transaction and at the 
end of the day shows no cash differences.
If the pay in machine had retained an additional £500, then I wouldve expected this to have 
been discovered when the machine was checked at the end of the day. But there were no 
discrepancies with the cash deposited into the machine. So, I think its unlikely that an 
additional £500 was retained by the pay in machine. 
This means if Ms C was paying in £4,000, there shouldve been £1,560 in cash which wasnt 
deposited into the pay in machine but there was only £1,060. HSBC have explained these 
funds were counted by two members of staff. This is consistent with Ms Cs version of 
events that there were two members of staff handling her cash.
Given that both members of staff were equally responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the 
cash, I think its unlikely the cash was miscounted. I appreciate the cash wasnt counted with 
Ms C, but I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to follow their dual control process 
given the issue with the pay in machine.  
When there was a problem with the pay in machine, HSBC followed their process for dealing 
with note jams and this was completed under dual control. They also conducted further 
checks of the pay in machine at the end of the day to look for the excess funds. I think HSBC 
did what it could in the circumstances to investigate the missing funds. This didnt indicate 
any mistakes or errors on their part.
Ms C feels very strongly that she took in £4,000 to deposit into branch. And she has 
provided us with a photo of the envelope where she kept her money. But unfortunately, this 
doesnt help with clarifying the situation as it doesnt show where Ms C was intending to pay 
these funds. Im aware Ms C deposited a further £4,000 at a different bank a few minutes 
after this transaction. Also, the last written record on the envelope was from 17 July 2021 
which said £2,000. 
It isnt possible for me to know with complete certainty what happened. But on balance, I 
think the most plausible explanation here is that there was a confusion or misunderstanding 
on the amount Ms C thought she was depositing in HSBC.
I dont think this is unlikely, particularly given Ms C had another envelope in her bag with 
funds she paid into a different bank shortly after this transaction, which was for the same 
amount she thought she was depositing in HSBC.
While I dont underestimate the strength of Ms C feelings here, overall, theres insufficient 
evidence to show that the pay in machine retained an additional £500, or that the members 
of staff made a mistake in counting the money. So, I wont be asking HSBC to credit the 
disputed £500 to her account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman