DRN-3516965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited has declined their legal expenses 
claim. They believe the policy indirectly discriminates against their sons disability.
All references to Amtrust include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a son with special education needs and disability (SEND). Their son had 
progressed well at his school and all parties agreed that he would benefit from a more 
challenging environment and a more able peer group, to enable him to develop his social 
communication and interaction skills. Where there was disagreement was over which school 
was now the one that Mr and Mrs Ss son should attend. In April 2020 the local education 
authority (LEA) issued an Education Health and Care Plan (EHCP) which named a particular 
school. Mr and Mrs S wanted their son to go to another school.
Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim on their legal expenses cover to Amtrust on 14 July 2020. 
They wanted Amtrust to fund their appeal to the First-tier Tribunal Special Educational 
Needs and Disability. Their appeal was under section 51 of the Children and Families Act 
2014 against the contents of section I (educational placement) of their sons EHCP. 
Information was requested on 20 July and Amtrust confirmed that fees already paid wouldnt 
be covered unless it had been necessary to start court proceedings prior to its consent. Mr 
and Mrs S provided the information on 3 August and on 11 August Amtrust sent an email to 
confirm what was covered under the policy.
There was some discussion over whether thered be cover due to the council not having a 
policy but had instead guidance. The claim was sent to Amtrusts panel solicitors for 
assessment on 28 August. They received the legal assessment on 8 September which 
stated there was prospects of success in the claim. There was agreement the claim would 
go ahead.
The terms of work were sent to Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors on 10 September and on 14 
September Amtrust received a reply stating that the hourly rate it was offering wouldnt be 
accepted. To check whether the hourly rate could be increased, the claim was sent to the 
underwriter for a decision.
During that process Amtrust determined that the claim fell outside of the funding scope. This 
was because Mr and Mrs S were trying to have the school they wanted their son to attend 
added to the EHCP whereas the policy only provided cover where the Local Authority are in 
breach of a published admissions policy. It said the EHCP process is separate to this. On 23 
September, Mr and Mrs S were informed the claim wasnt covered. Their solicitors disputed 
this and said unless there was a policy exemption, the claim should be covered but Amtrust 
didnt agree.
A complaint was raised, and Amtrust issued a final response letter on 11 December. It 
offered £100 compensation for providing incorrect information in relation to whether the 
claim was accepted or not and the distress and inconvenience that would have been 
caused. Because Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, they asked our service to investigate 
things. To resolve the complaint, theyd like full reimbursement of their legal costs plus 8% 
interest per annum, an apology for the distress and inconveniences caused, financial 
compensation to recognise the impact this had on them and a full review of Amtrusts policy 
terms.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Amtrust had 
applied the policy terms fairly and the compensation it had paid for its error was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S and their representative disagree. They believe the investigator has 
misunderstood the SEND process and the LEAs role in it. They explained that there is a 
different admissions policy and statutory framework for children who have an EHCP 
compared to those who do not have an EHCP. The LEA is solely responsible for admission 
of children who have EHCPs to a special school. The LEA makes the decision on placement 
following a recommendation from a provision panel. In accordance with the provision panels 
decision, the LEA determined that Mr and Mrs Ss son should attend an LD school (a school 
for children with learning difficulties). They point out the school Mr and Mrs S wanted their 
son to attend is also an LD school. They think that an EHCP is a conduit for a child or young 
person with a disability to attend a particular school, in the same way that the application 
process for maintained schools is the conduit for admission to a state-maintained school 
when a child or young person has no EHCP. As such, to agree to indemnify a family 
appealing against an admission decision when attending a mainstream school, whilst 
refusing to indemnify a family of a child or young person with a disability against an 
admission decision when attending a special school is discriminatory against the child and 
their family.
They say that it has been shown by the decision of the tribunal  which allowed the appeal  
that the LEA has failed to follow its own policies and indeed the statutory framework in place. 
They say Mr and Mrs S have not requested the LEA changes its policy but rather adheres to 
the admissions policy it has and the statutory framework which underpins it, which has been 
upheld by the tribunal. They say the investigator has failed to say on what basis Mr and Mrs 
Ss claim is not related to admission nor has she explained which of the exemptions
would apply to this case.
Finally they state the action being taken by Mr and Mrs S was to appeal against the decision 
of a LEA arising out of the LEAs failure conform to its published admissions policy (and 
statutory framework) which led to their child being refused entry at the state school of their 
choice. This is precisely the action that is covered by the wording of the policy.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2022. In it I said:
Before I consider the complaint, I want to explain that its not our role to say whether in 
making this decision Amtrust has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, 
however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law, such as 
the Equality Act 2010, and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers:
School Admission Disputes
What is insured
Instructed Advisers' Costs to appeal against the decision of a Local Education Authority 
(LEA) arising out of the LEA's failure to conform to its published admission policy, which 
leads to Your child or children being refused entry at the state school of Your choice. What is not insured:-
Claims
a) Arising where examinations or other selection criteria are part of the acceptance process
b) Where the process for appealing against the decision to refuse a place at the school has 
not been adhered to
c) Where the child has been suspended, expelled or permanently excluded from another 
school
The policy doesnt define published admissions policy. But I think that a reasonable person 
having all background knowledge at the time of entering into the insurance contract would 
reasonably understand this to mean the admission rules published on the relevant 
authoritys website. For this LEA, towards the top of these rules it makes clear that all 
schools must admit a child with an EHCP which names the school.
The action Mr and Mrs S were seeking their legal expenses for was an appeal against the 
contents of the EHCP for their son, specifically their appeal concerned their wish for the 
school named in their sons EHCP to be replaced with the name of their preferred school. 
That is not the same as an appeal arising out of the LEAs failure to conform to its published 
admission policy which lead to their child being refused entry at the state school of their 
choice. Further, from what I can see Mr and Mrs S didnt apply to the school of their choice 
and therefore their son wasnt refused entry. I appreciate this is because thats not how the 
system for school allocation works where there is a named school on an EHCP but it does 
demonstrate that what Mr and Mrs S were trying to do was different from what the insurer 
was offering to cover. So, I think Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably by ultimately 
concluding that Mr and Mrs Ss claim is not covered.
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor thinks that it should be covered unless it is specifically excluded. 
That isnt how insurance policies work. If the claim falls within the cover initially offered under 
the policy, we would then look to the exclusions to see if cover for the specific issue is 
excluded. In this case as Mr and Mrs Ss claim isnt covered, the exclusions arent relevant 
here.
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor have suggested that a wide interpretation of the policy is taken. 
They have described how an EHCP is a conduit for a child or young person with a disability 
to attend a particular school, in the same way that the application process for maintained 
schools is the conduit for admission to a state-maintained school when a child or young 
person has no EHCP. I have thought very carefully about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to interpret the policy widely in the way the solicitors suggest. I dont think 
it would be fair or reasonable. I think the appeal Mr and Mrs S made was very different than 
an appeal against an LEAs failure to follow its published admissions policy. I have read the 
tribunals decision and it rightly involved a very detailed and formal consideration of Mr and 
Mrs Ss child. The nature of the appeals in each case seem to me to be different; different 
law is considered, by different decision-making bodies and the degree of formality is also 
different.
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor have said that to agree to indemnify a family appealing against an 
admission decision when attending a mainstream school, whilst refusing to indemnify a 
family of a child or young person with a disability against an admission decision when 
attending a special school is discriminatory against the child and their family. I appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs S and their solicitor might feel that way but as I have explained above, I 
think the two appeals processes are different. An insurer is free to decide what cover it is 
prepared to offer. To offer to cover for a particular appeals process and not another isnt in 
and of itself unfair. And given the different natures of the appeals process I dont think that 
by not offering the cover here Amtrust has acted unfairly. Even if Im wrong and the EHCP 
does form part of the schools admission policy, Im satisfied that it is only to the extent that all schools and academies must admit a child with an EHCP that names the school. Thats 
on its website, when setting out a summary of the admissions rules. And as the LEA was 
prepared to admit Mr and Mrs Ss son to the school named on the EHCP, it has  to this 
extent  complied with its admissions policy.
Im also conscious that the contract of insurance is between Mr and Mrs S and Amtrust. And 
although they say the policy term should cover the dispute they have with the LEA about 
which school should be named on the EHCP for their son , Mr and Mrs S arent saying that 
the policy term indirectly discriminates against them as disabled people. Theyre effectively 
saying that they have been indirectly discriminated by association with/on behalf of their son. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that indirect disability discrimination 
 as set out in the Equality Act 2010 - is relevant to this complaint. Thats because - 
particularly in relation to the provision of services - indirect discrimination by way of 
association hasnt yet been established by the caselaw of England and Wales.
I do, however, think that Mr and Mrs S have reason to feel disappointed that Amtrust didnt 
make it clear to them that they wouldnt be covered earlier. Amtrust took more than two 
months to let them know they werent covered and had in that time told them they were 
covered. I think in these circumstances its offer of £100 doesnt reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think most of the distress Mr and Mrs S suffered was because of 
the LEAs decision regarding the named school. But at what was an already distressing time, 
Amtrusts failure to make it clear that they werent covered would have added to their 
distress. I think it t would be fair for it to pay £200.
I have also thought about whether Amtrusts change of mind resulted in additional costs to 
Mr and Mrs S. I think the investigator is right that it probably didnt as they had already 
started legal action independently before checking whether they were covered. So, its more 
likely than not theyd have taken things further anyway. I will, however, consider any 
evidence from their solicitor that she carried out additional work (which she subsequently 
charged her clients for) prior to the claim being declined which she wouldnt have carried out 
if her clients had been informed that they werent covered earlier.
Response to my provisional decision
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor their representative responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to consider anything new I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision and confirm it here now.
Putting things right
To put things right Im going to order Amtrust pay Mr and Mrs S £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £200
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman