DRN-2941393
The complaint
Ms M complains, on behalf of Mrs S and Mr S as their representative, that Furness Building 
Society (Furness) gave incorrect information regarding the lending criteria for a buy to let 
mortgage on a property being purchased at auction.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S successfully bid for a property at auction, after being issued with a decision 
in principal from Furness, for a buy to let (BTL) mortgage on a property, with a flying freehold 
extending up to 25%. Ms M says the formal BTL mortgage application was submitted but it 
was declined following the valuation, as Furness would only consider BTL mortgage 
applications with flying freeholds of up to 20%. Ms M says while the valuation report stated a 
flying freehold of approximately 27%, the initial mis-information given by Furness, meant Mrs 
S and Mr S, had no opportunity to look to other lenders before the completion date. As a 
result, Mrs S and Mr S, lost their deposit and fees totalling in excess of £30,000, and Ms M 
feels these should be reimbursed by Furness. 
Furness says they were approached by Ms M for an indication of their lending criteria for 
BTL  properties with a flying freehold, and a member of their staff incorrectly advised her the 
flying freehold element could extend up to 25% of a property, when in fact it had recently 
changed to 20%. Furness says while they accept, they gave Ms M incorrect information 
here, in any event the valuation showed the flying freehold at 27%, which is more than they 
would have lent on a BTL - even if there were no other issues with the property, but there 
were. Furness says they would have honoured the 25% flying freehold criteria but that 
wouldnt have helped here, as other issues were highlighted by the valuation report. Furness 
says this would have needed further investigation and specialist reports and there was no 
time to obtain these before the auction completion deadline date. 
Mrs S and Mr S werent happy with the response from Furness and asked Ms M to refer the 
matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that Furness acted reasonably when declining the BTL mortgage application based on 
the outcome of the valuation report. The investigator felt that although Furness had 
mistakenly advised Ms M they would consider flying freeholds extending to 25% rather than 
20%, in this case it wasnt the reason why Mrs S and Mr S lost their deposit. The investigator 
felt there were other issues brought up in the valuation report that meant further reports were 
needed and the flying freehold extended to 27%, in any event. 
Mrs S and Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs S and Mr S to have believed they had 
secured a property at auction, only to find their BTL mortgage application was declined by 
Furness based on the valuation report. When making a full and impartial decision here, I will 
consider if Furness acted unreasonably when they declined Mrs S and Mr Ss mortgage 
application, based partly on the extent of the flying freehold percentage, of the property they 
were buying. 
Its worth saying a flying freehold is when most of a property is within its own boundary, but a 
percentage of it reaches over someone elses land. Lenders will typically put restrictions on 
how much they might lend in those circumstances. In addition, most lenders would usually 
place a limit on the extent of the percentage they would accept, of the overall property the 
flying freehold affects, before approving a mortgage application, including BTL mortgages. 
What happened here is, Ms M approached Furness for a decision in principal for a BTL 
mortgage for her clients, Mrs S and Mr S. From the information I have seen a member of 
Furness staff informed Ms M in mid-August 2020, they would consider flying freeholds 
extending up to 25% of a property, as part of its decision in principal. Ms M says based on 
this information Mrs S and Mr S bid for, and secured a property at auction, believing the 
flying freehold represented around 24.5%. Ms M says following the valuation report, Furness 
declined the mortgage application saying it would only lend on flying freeholds extending up 
to 20%. Ms M says if that had been known at the outset, she would have considered other 
lenders, whom may have been able to assist, but given the completion date deadline was 
only one day away that wasnt possible. Ms M says because of this, Mrs S and Mr S lost the 
property, their deposit and associated fees - a sum in excess of £30,000.
I understand what Ms M is saying and I can see that Furness did indicate they would lend on 
a property with a flying freehold up to 25%. That said, its reasonable to say there is always a 
risk when buying a property at an auction without having a valuation report completed or 
have funding  in place, beforehand. I say this because on acceptance of any bid by the 
auction house, the buyer is committed at that point to complete the purchase within a fairly 
tight timescale, in this case 28 days from the auction date. While Ms M may not agree, Im 
not persuaded the reason for Mrs S and Mr S losing their deposit was due to the fact 
Furness had said it would lend on a flying freehold of up to 25% of the property. I say this 
because the valuation report I have seen, says the flying freehold element is approximately 
27%, and in addition to that, a concrete assessment needed to be obtained, along with 
remediation of damp and the testing of electrical and gas installations, as a condition of 
lending. The valuation report suggested a full retention by the lender and gave no value to 
the property, before these issued were resolved. 
With that in mind, I am satisfied there was little likelihood the issues raised in the valuation 
report could have been dealt with before the auction deadline for completion, only a day or 
so later. 
I cant say with any certainty other lenders would have agreed to lend here, even if they were 
prepared to lend at a higher percentage for flying freeholds, as Ms M claims was possible. 
The issue here is the property needed further investigation before it could be considered as 
mortgageable. 
Its also fair to say that a decision in principal is just that, and it is reasonable for Furness to 
require a full mortgage application and satisfactory valuation report before releasing any funds to complete the property purchase. In this case the valuation report carried out 
highlighted various problems that needed addressing before the tight deadline of the auction 
completion date.
Like the investigator, while I have to take into account the fact this happened during the 
Covid pandemic which affected both business and customers alike, given the valuation was 
instructed  within seven days of the mortgage application  including a bank holiday, I cant 
say the pandemic materially affected the time it took for Furness to deal with the mortgage 
application or its subsequent decline. 
I was sorry to learn of Mrs S and Mr Ss loss of deposit, which must have been very difficult 
for them both. In this case, I cant say that this was a result of Furness agreeing initially to a 
more generous flying freehold percentage, as they have subsequently told this service they 
would have honoured the 25% figure they initially stated, if that had been the only issue on 
the valuation  but it wasnt. 
I havent been provided with any evidence to show another lender would have approved a 
more generous flying freehold percentage, or more importantly would have been able to 
have completed the mortgage funding in time for the auction completion date, given the 
other issues the valuation report subsequently raised and the very tight timescales here. 
Unfortunately, the valuation highlighted various issues that prevented Furness releasing the 
mortgage finance needed on completion. On balance, I am satisfied it was not as a result of 
Furness taking too long over the mortgage application, nor solely an issue of the flying 
freehold percentage it initially agreed to, that caused Mrs S and Mr S to lose their deposit, 
for the reasons I have already stated. 
Although Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore 
of Furness here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman