DRN-3712244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined their claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs D claimed against their Covea home insurance policy. They 
felt a storm had damaged a chimney on their property. They were concerned the chimney 
was dangerous, so had their own contractor remove part of it. However, Covea declined the 
claim. It said the damage pre-existed the storm. It felt it resulted from wear and tear and was 
highlighted by the storm, rather than a direct result of it.
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with Coveas response to their complaint, so came to this 
service. As a resolution they would like Covea to settle their claim by reimbursing them the 
cost of works to the chimney. 
Our investigator felt Coveas decision to decline the claim was fair. Mr and Mrs D didnt 
accept that. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. In September 2022 I 
wrote to Mr and Mrs D and Covea to explain my initial thoughts on the complaint. I explained 
why I intended to require the insurer to reimburse Mr and Mrs D 50% of the repair cost - 
£400 after deduction of a £50 policy excess. I invited Mr and Mrs D and Covea to accept my 
proposal - or if they disagreed with it to provide any further information they would like me to 
consider. 
Mr and Mrs D responded with an additional photo of the chimney but didnt set out their 
position on my proposal. Covea acknowledged it but failed to give its position or provide any 
further information. As both parties failed to accept my proposal, Ive issued this final 
decision. The reasoning Ive already provided to both parties forms part of my final decision. 
So Ive copied it in below. 
It seems Coveas failed to understand Mr and Mrs Ds cover. In its complaint 
response letter it said Your claim was considered under the peril of storm. For a 
claim to be accepted under the storm peril of an insurance policy, it must be 
displayed that there is physical damage to the building which is the direct result of a 
single, extreme weather event, with the extreme weather being the dominant factor in 
causing the damage.
However, the buildings cover appears to be all-risk. The policy terms dont, for 
buildings, refer to standard insured perils like storm, fire or theft. Instead they say 
We cover the following
1. Loss or damage
Any loss or damage to your buildings, including:
Loss or damage caused by domestic pets
So they refer to any loss rather than a list of perils. The use of includes means the 
causes of loss covered arent restricted to those listed. Instead it appears the policy 
covers any loss or damage to buildings.
As the policy is all risks Mr and Mrs D arent required to show the damage to the 
chimney is the direct result of a single event  like a storm. Instead, if Covea wishes 
to decline any claim for loss or damage, its needs to demonstrate it would be 
reasonable for it to rely on a policy condition or exclusion to do so. In this case its 
referred to a wear and tear exclusion. 
So Ive considered if Coveas done enough to demonstrate the cause of the damage 
was most likely wear and tear. Mr and Mrs D say after storm conditions the chimney 
was badly damaged. They report their roofer as saying it was at risk of collapse. 
Coveas referred to the one available post loss photo of the chimney. In its notes its 
recorded I can see from the image .there seems to be mortar missing from the top 
row of bricks.  When he was asked, the roofer who did the repair work, denied there 
was any missing mortar. The roofer instead said in his opinion, with 35 years of 
experience, that the chimney was damaged by bad weather rather than wear and 
tear. Weather reports do show very strong winds in the period before Mr and Mrs D 
made the claim.
Based on the above I cant say Coveas shown the main cause of the damage most 
likely was wear and tear. Of particular note is the fact the only expert opinion 
available denies that is the cause  whilst Coveas opinion, based on one photo is 
that it seems there is missing mortar. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for Covea to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
However, I also dont think it would be fair to require Covea to pay the full £900 paid 
for the repairs. I say that as it was willing, but unable to, inspect the chimney. 
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs D had arranged repairs before making the claim. I 
understand why they did this  for safety reasons. But it still meant Covea was 
unable to inspect the damage and fully consider the cause. I accept its possible, if it 
had that opportunity, it may have been able to provide something further to support a 
decline of the claim.  
As a result I consider a fair resolution will be for Covea to meet 50% of the repair cost 
 minus the applicable £50 excess. That will be £400. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only new information Ive been provided with is a photo of the chimney taken a few 
years before the claim. This hasnt changed my position. I still feel it would be unfair, for the 
reasons given above, to require Covea to cover the full costs. 
As I havent been provided with anything that changes my mind, for the reasons set above, I 
require Covea to pay Mr and Mrs D £400 to settle their claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Covea Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D £400 to 
settle their claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman