DRN-3837877
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (trading as Sunlife) mis-sold him 
an over 50s whole of life plan.
What happened
In summary Mr B purchased the plan in 2012. Following the purchase he was sent the policy 
documentation. He has now paid in more than the policy will pay out. Mr B, by his 
representative, asked for a refund of premiums as he didnt think that his personal 
circumstances were taken into account or that the policy was suitable for him. His 
representative has told us that Mr B wouldnt have understood the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B appealed. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think Sunlife has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr B that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his representatives submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been 
said.Within this decision though Ive focused on what I find are the key issues.
Sunlife didnt give Mr B advice  so it didnt need to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for him. It didnt therefore ask for, and wasnt given, any details about Mr 
Bsmental health or comprehension.
However it did need to ensure that the documentation about the policy was clear, 
fairand not misleading. The terms and conditions clearly advise:
The information you have been provided with does not contain advice regarding 
whether the Guaranteed Over 50 Plan is suitable for you. The decision is yours and 
therefore its very important that you
1. Read and understand these Terms and Condition
2. Make sure that you are eligible for the Plan
3. Make sure you know what is and isnt covered by the Plan
4. Keep these Terms and Conditions to refer to in the future
5. Check these terms and Conditions from time to time to make sure that the Plan is   
still suitable for you.
The policy document explained that Mr B had 30 days to change his mind and cancel 
the policy. He didnt do so but did call the customer service team on several 
occasions regarding the administration of his policy.
I recognise that Mr B has now paid more into the plan than the guaranteed fixed sum. 
As our investigator explained, the way these plans work mean that some 
policyholders will end up paying more in premiums that the policy ultimately pays out. 
There is nothing inherently wrong with this  but we do expect that the risk is 
highlighted in the policy documents. Here it was. The Terms and Conditions advised: 
Depending on how long you live, the total premiums paid may be greater than the 
cash sum payable on death.
In all the circumstances I cant say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr B or that Sunlife 
have treated him unfairly or contrary to the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman