DRN-4053800
The complaint
Mr E and Miss P complain that Wakam Insurance Company (Wakam) unfairly avoided their 
home insurance policy. Any reference to Wakam in this final decision includes its respective 
agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr E and Miss P took out a Wakam home insurance policy to cover a new property 
they had purchased. A few months later, Mr E and Miss P made a claim for cracking 
and suspected subsidence at the insured property.
Prior to buying their home and applying for the Wakam policy, Mr E and Miss P had a 
survey carried out on the property. After reviewing a copy of the survey report, 
Wakam declined Mr E and Miss Ps claim.
Wakam said the report showed that Mr E and Miss P had answered the application 
questions it asked about subsidence, cracks and defects incorrectly. It considered 
this to be a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, which it said entitled it to refuse 
the claim, avoid the policy from inception and retain the premiums paid.
Mr E and Miss P disagreed and brought a complaint to this Service. They said 
Wakams expectations on how the application questions should be interpreted were 
broad and unrealistic. They said theyd answered the questions honestly and to the 
best of their knowledge and so they thought the action Wakam had taken was wrong.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Wakam had acted fairly, so 
they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr E and Miss P disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr E and Miss P, but Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care, including how clear and specific the insurers questions 
were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Wakam essentially says Mr E and Miss P failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation by not disclosing (when asked) that their property had visible 
cracks and also defects  something that was highlighted to them in the survey they 
were in possession of before applying for the policy. Wakam says had it known about 
either of these issues, it wouldnt have offered cover. 
Mr E and Miss P maintain that their home was in a good state of repair when they 
applied for the policy. And while they acknowledge the finding of cracks in the survey, 
they say the application question relating to cracks was set out underneath a heading 
that read No Subsidence, so they interpreted it to be referring only to cracks that 
were, or might be relevant to damage from subsidence, heave or landslip. 
They say their survey didnt reference cracks that were relevant to these issues, so 
they never disclosed these in answer to Wakams question. Something they think is 
reasonable and an honest response, because in their opinion it wasnt clear that the 
question being asked referred to any cracks whatsoever. So, my starting point is to 
look at how clear the questions were.
During the application process Mr E and Miss P were asked to answer True or 
False to a list of statements. They answered True to the following two statements, 
but Wakam argue the correct answer shouldve been False:
o'To the best of your knowledge, your property, or any of your neighbouring 
properties have never suffered damage from subsidence, heave or landslip, 
been repaired or have any visible cracks in the internal or external walls 
oThe home Insured on the policy is currently in a good state of repair, free 
from damage or defect and isnt currently undergoing building work, and none 
is planned during the period of insurance.
Whilst I acknowledge the statement regarding cracks is under a heading titled No 
subsidence, I dont agree that this changes or affects the clarity of whats being 
asked in the way Mr E and Miss P allege. 
This is because the statement itself doesnt ask about cracks relating only to 
subsidence heave or landslip, it specifically refers to any visible cracks in the 
internal and external walls. Im satisfied the question being asked in this statement is 
clear.
And while Mr E and Miss P may well be of the opinion their home was in a good state 
of repair, the statement regarding this, which I also think is clear, also asks about 
whether the property is free from defects amongst other things.
The surveyors report Ive seen references several internal and external visible cracks 
on walls. And part of the reports conclusion is that There are structural defects to 
the property alongside a necessity to instruct an engineer to inspect the property for 
structural movement and provide a written report  something Wakam says its seen 
no evidence of having been completed before the policy was purchased.
So, on balance of what Ive seen in this case, I agree with Wakam that the answers 
Mr E and Miss P gave to the above questions were incorrect. Im therefore satisfied 
they failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in this case. 
Wakam has provided evidence which shows that had Mr E and Miss P given the correct answers to either of the questions it wouldnt have provided them with cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mr E and Miss Ps misrepresentation is a qualifying one. 
Wakam has treated it as a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation on the basis 
Mr E and Miss P knew there were visible cracks and defects and did not declare this. 
While I dont think it was deliberate, I dont think its unreasonable for Wakam to 
consider it reckless of Mr E and Miss P to answer the questions as they did whilst in 
receipt of the survey report findings as set out above. So Ive looked at the actions it 
can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, if a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the insurer can avoid 
the contract, refuse all claims and retain the premium paid. From what Ive seen 
these are the actions Wakam has taken in this case, so its handled the 
misrepresentation in accordance with the remedies available to it under CIDRA which 
is fair in all the circumstances of this case. It follows I dont uphold this complaint and 
wont be directing Wakam to do anything further.
Ive considered all of Mr E and Miss Ps submissions carefully and in full and I 
appreciate they were hoping for a different outcome to their complaint. I understand 
how upsetting theyve found the claims decision and I was sorry to learn of the 
impact they say this has had on them. But my role is to consider complaints 
impartially. And in doing so, Ive not found that Wakam has acted unreasonably in 
this case for the reasons set out above. So while I empathise with Mr E and Miss P, 
their comments havent changed my finding in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman