DRN-3366188
The complaint
Mr L complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined a claim under his business protection 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. He made a claim on that 
policy to cover his businesses losses arising out of its closure from March 2020 due to the 
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
QIC declined the claim because it said Mr L didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mr L doesnt agree. He says the policy covers an outbreak of human infectious diseases 
which should encompass Covid 19, that the closure of his business was through no fault of 
his own as he was forced to close due to Government requirement and that the policy should 
cover him for the damage to his business as a result of lost revenue. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation Mr L found 
himself in. Mr L doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on Mr Ls 
business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover Mr L is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting
point is to consider the specific policy Mr L took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy Mr L holds with QIC to determine whether there are any sections that would 
require QIC to meet the claim like the one Mr L is making.
Mr L has told us that his business wasnt able to operate as it normally would have due to 
the government-imposed lockdown. 
The policy provides cover for several things, including notifiable disease, damage and loss of 
attraction. Ive considered each of them below.
Notifiable Disease
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension in
relation to notifiable disease. That section covers:

a any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the Premises or attributable to food or drink 
supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
notifiable disease
c the discovery of vermin or pests at the Premises which causes restrictions on the use 
of the Premises on the order or advice of the competent local authority
d any accident causing defects in the drains mother sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice 
of the competent local authority
e any occurrence of murder or suicide at the Premises
Notifiable disease is defined as:
Illness sustained by any person resulting from:
food or drink poisoning
one of the following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases:
Acute, encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Bubonic Plague, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis,
Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia
neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Rabies, Relapsing Fever, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever Typhus Fever, Viral hepatitis,
Viral Haemorrhagic, Whooping Cough, Yellow Fever
an outbreak of which a competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides Mr L with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something QIC might 
have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present pandemic. 
These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on 
a Government defined list. Mr Ls policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are covered by 
the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and effect of 
the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are many 
potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive considered that the 
policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
For the sake of completeness Id like to reassure Mr L that Ive considered his specific points 
in relation to this section of the policy- particularly in relation to his reference to an outbreak 
of which a competent local authority which he says means his claim should be covered. But 
for the same reasons Ive set out above, I dont think this definition extends to Covid-19. 
And from what hes said I dont doubt the likelihood that a case of Covid-19 might well have 
occurred at his business premises but in order for such a claim to be covered, Covid-19 
would have to fall within the specified list of diseases set out above. Because it doesnt fall 
within that list, its not something wed expect QIC to cover. 
Damage
The policy also covers:
loss of income occurring during the indemnity period resulting from Damage caused by
any of the insured events 1 to 13 under this section to any of the following:the trade contents or glass insured under this section
the buildings of the premises shown in the schedule provided always at the time
of the damage there shall be an insurance in force covering your interest in the
property at the premises against damage and that payment shall have been
made or liability admitted under that insurance
property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders the use of the
public house or access to it.
Damage is defined as Loss or damage. Nothing in that section extends to damage 
caused to the business itself by way of a notifiable disease as defined by the policy or any 
other diseases such as Covid 19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to 
damage to property. So I dont think cover is available under this section of the policy.
Loss of Attraction
Theres also a policy extension which provides cover for business interruption for property in 
the vicinity of the Premises is lost destroyed or damaged by any cause not otherwise 
excluded, and as a direct result, there is a fall in the number of customers attracted to the 
Insureds Premises. 
For the same reasons set out by the investigator, I dont think the policy provides cover in 
the circumstances of Mr Ls claim. Thats because theres nothing in this case which 
suggests property in the vicinity of Mr Ls business premises was lost, destroyed, or 
damaged such that it caused there to be a fall in the number of customers attracted to his 
business. I know that Mr L feels that his business was damaged as a result of the pandemic. 
And although the definition of damage contained in the policy doesnt apply here because 
the word isnt preceded with a capital letter, Im not persuaded that Covid 19 caused any 
damage to property. Because of that I cant say QIC were wrong to decline Mr Ls claim 
under this section of cover. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think QIC acted unfairly by turning down
Mr Ls claim for cover. I know Mr L feels strongly that the policy shouldve covered him and 
that this decision will be disappointing for him but I hope Ive provided a thorough 
explanation of why it doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of its claim.
In closing, I can assure Mr L that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgement on appeal
from the High Court in relation to business interruption insurance policies in January 2021
has had no bearing on the outcome of this particular complaint. The policy that is the subject 
of this present complaint wasnt being considered by that appeal.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman