DRN-3839148
The complaint
Mrs M, a sole trader, is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont 
acknowledge that she isnt liable to repay a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) that was applied for 
by her daughter and son-in-law in her name. 
Mrs Ms complaint is brought to this service by her authorised representative. However, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to Mrs M directly throughout this letter.
What happened
Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law wanted to open a business bank account but were unable 
to do so because of adverse reporting on their credit files. To help her daughter and son-in-
law, Mrs M successfully applied to NatWest for a business account in her name, whereby 
she indicated to NatWest that she was the proprietor of the associated business, and then 
allowed her daughter and son-in-law to use that account. 
Unbeknownst to Mrs M, in April 2020, her daughter and son-in-law successfully applied for a 
£50,000 BBL in Mrs Ms name with NatWest and received the loan funds into the business 
bank account that Mrs M had applied for shortly afterwards. 
Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law failed to meet the monthly payments required by the BBL 
which resulted in the BBL agreement being terminated by NatWest for non-payment. 
NatWest then pursued Mr M for the outstanding BBL debt. Mrs M wasnt happy about this, 
and she was also unhappy that NatWest had failed to action earlier requests to transfer the 
business account into the names of her daughter and son-in-law. So, she raised a complaint.      
NatWest responded to Mrs Ms complaint and explained that because the business bank 
account had been applied for by her, and was in her name, that they considered her liable 
for any borrowing taken out in association with that account, including the BBL. NatWest 
also explained that BBL applications relied on self-declarations of eligibility, and confirmed 
that because Mrs M was aware that her daughter and son-in-law had access to the online 
business profile  and so could apply for a BBL  they felt it fair that Mrs M should retain a 
liability for the BBL that had been successfully applied for by her daughter and son-in-law.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that NatWest had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M 
remained unhappy, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In regard to this specific complaint, I can confirm immediately that because Mrs M knowingly 
and voluntarily applied for a business bank account in her own name, to be ceded to and 
used by her daughter and son-in-law  who by all accounts wouldnt have been successful in 
applying for such an account in their own names  I feel it is fair that NatWest can consider 
Mrs M to be accountable and liable for the debts that have accrued in association with that 
business account.
In effect, by acting as she did, Mrs M assisted her daughter and son-in-law to circumvent 
NatWests risk assessment processes, so that her daughter and son-in-law had de-facto use 
of an account that NatWest were unlikely to have provided to them, had it been applied for in 
the proper manner by themselves. 
Furthermore, a significant debt had now arisen in association with that account in the form of 
the unpaid £50,000 BBL, applied for by Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law in Mrs Ms name. 
And this is a debt that NatWest would almost certainly not now be subject to, had Mrs M not 
applied for the business account in her name with no intention of using that account herself. 
And so, it doesnt seem fair to me, given the circumstances as Ive described them, that 
NatWest should now be asked to write off the significant lending that Im satisfied theyve 
made in good faith here. 
Mrs M may argue that she wasnt aware that the BBL had been applied for by her daughter 
and son-in-law. But as the named account holder, it was Mrs Ms responsibility to have 
monitored the account and been aware of any activity that was taking place on the account 
in her name, including any applications for credit such as a BBL.
Mrs M has explained that her daughter changed the online password for the NatWest 
account in February 2020, meaning that she had no access to the account after that time 
and so wasnt able to see that a BBL had been applied for. But if this was the case, then it 
was for Mrs M to have reported this to NatWest. And I dont feel that her liability is reduced in 
any way because of her failing to monitor an account being operated with her knowledge 
and consent by her daughter and son-in-law and which she could have recovered access to 
at any time by simply approaching NatWest and explaining what had happened.
Mrs M may also argue that she did approach NatWest with her daughter and son-in-law on 
two occasions to ask for the business account to be transferred out of her name and into the 
name of her daughter and son-in-law. But NatWest have been able to demonstrate that they 
responded to these requests by confirming that the name on the account couldnt be 
changed and that if Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law wanted to open an account in their 
names, then they would have to apply for a new account themselves.
NatWests explanation here seems both reasonable and logical to me, and I say this 
because transferring the ownership of the account in the manner that Mrs M and her 
daughter and son-in-law were wanting would again amount to a circumventing of NatWests 
account application checks and criteria  which Im satisfied that NatWest are entitled to 
have processes and policies in place to prevent. 
Mrs M has also asked why NatWest didnt realise that it wasnt herself that was applying for the BBL and has questioned the amount of scrutiny that NatWest applied to the BBL 
application in general.
But the BBL was applied for online via a business profile held in Mrs Ms own name and 
associated with the business bank account that Mrs M had herself applied for. Mrs M hadnt 
reported anything untoward with that business profile, including that it was being accessed 
by third-parties or that she no longer had access to it. And so, I dont feel there was any 
reasonable cause for NatWest to have suspected that the BBL application it received 
through Mrs Ms business profile wasnt being made by Mrs M herself  especially as it was 
made for the business that Mrs M had indicated to NatWest that she was the proprietor of 
when she applied for the business bank account herself.
Additionally, because of the unique circumstances surrounding the emergence of Covid-19 
that led to the creation of the BBL scheme, it was anticipated that there would be a large 
influx of BBL applications. So, to enable lenders to process BBL applications quickly, the 
British Business Bank  which administered the BBL scheme  made it the responsibility of 
the applicant to self-declare they met the eligibility criteria of the scheme and were entitled to 
receive a BBL. 
This meant that lenders, such as NatWest, werent required to verify or check whether the 
eligibility information provided by the applicant was correct. Instead, it was the responsibility 
of the applicant to have understood the eligibility criteria of the scheme and to have 
submitted accurate eligibility information in any BBL application.
And, while it wasnt Mrs M herself that applied for the BBL in this instance, she had 
knowingly and voluntarily allowed her daughter and son-in-law to take control of the 
business account  including the online business profile which they then used to apply for 
the BBL. And Mrs M also didnt monitor that profile in line with her obligations as the account 
holder, including when she became aware that she no longer had access to it.
Finally, Mrs M has asked why NatWest didnt notify her of the BBL application. But NatWest 
did notify the applicant, who they reasonably believed to be Mrs M, about the ongoing status 
of the BBL application via the online portal through which it was applied. And to reiterate, 
Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law wouldnt have been able to apply for the BBL had Mrs M 
not applied for an account in her name, and then ceded control of that account  which 
remained in her name and thus which she remained responsible for  to her daughter and 
son-in-law.
Ultimately, for the reasons explained above  including that Mrs M facilitated the possibility 
of her daughter and son-in-law applying for the BBL in her name by her actions, and failed to 
mitigate against that possibility by her inactions  Im satisfied that NatWest havent acted 
unfairly here in taking the position regarding this outstanding debt that they have. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs M was wanting, but I trust shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman