DRN-1551103
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc, trading then as National & Provincial, mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they dealt through a mortgage broker, who arranged both their 
mortgage and the PPI policy with National & Provincial for them. As Santander has taken 
responsibility for the sale of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B, Ill refer only to Santander in the 
rest of this decision.
What happened
 In 1992, Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Santander. At the same time, they were 
sold a PPI policy to protect the repayments on this mortgage. Santander originally said that it 
assumed the policy gave them joint cover. But Mr and Mrs B think that only Mr B was 
covered. This seems to be supported by the PPI Certificate of Insurance, which shows Mr B 
as the insured person, so Ive taken this to be the case. 
Santander says the policy would have provided up to twenty-four months cover for 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments if Mr B wasnt able to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs B say that the PPI was sold to them as part of the mortgage package. And they 
say they were told by the mortgage advisor that taking the PPI was a requirement of the 
mortgage and it wasnt made clear that they had a choice. So they think they were unfairly 
pressured into taking it.
This PPI sale took place a very long time ago. So its not that surprising that not all the 
paperwork from this time is still available. And theres no written record of what was said to 
Mr and Mrs B by the mortgage advisor they dealt with. But weve seen copies of mortgage 
application forms from around this time. And on these theres a section dealing with PPI 
where the applicant(s) is required to tick a box if they want this cover. And theres a separate 
PPI application form which also needs to be completed and signed. I think these forms 
would have made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they didnt need to take the PPI cover if they 
didnt want to.Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B have said about being told they had to take 
the policy. But I need to bear in mind that memories tend to fade over such long periods of 
time. And I dont think that it would be fair for me to conclude that the advisor misled 
Mr and Mrs C in this way, based only on what they now think happened then. On balance, I 
think its more likely that the advisor, whilst strongly recommending that they take out the 
policy, didnt wrongly mislead them into thinking they had to have it to get their mortgage. I 
think its more likely that they actively decided to take the policy knowing they had a choice. 
But I can understand why they may not recall this now.
Santander and Mr and Mrs B say that this was an advised sale and Ive taken this to be the 
case. This means that Santander needed to ensure that the policy was right for 
Mr and Mrs B. I cant now know how it did this. But from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Mr B appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr B says he was eligible for generous sick pay from his employer and also had 
some savings they could fall back on. But this policy would have paid out in addition 
to Mr and Mrs Bs other means and, potentially, for considerably longer than these 
would have lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where ones 
home is at risk  so I still think they would have valued the extra security which the 
policy gave them if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs B enough information for them to decide if the 
PPI policy was right for them. I think its possible that the information they received could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their minds 
about taking it. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful protection at an affordable 
cost.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything that Santander may have done 
wrong when it sold this PPI policy to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman