DRN-3934123
The complaint
Mr M complains Allianz Insurance Plc wrongly withdrew funding under his legal expenses 
insurance policy to pursue a claim against his neighbour in connection with access to his 
property.
Mr M is represented by a family member in relation to the insurance claim and his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service but, for ease, I refer to Mr M throughout.
What happened
In 2009 Mr M bought a property at auction. He was granted permission to extend the 
property and, after obtaining planning permission, began works in around August 2021.      
Mr Ms neighbours, who had objected to the works, obstructed access over land to the rear 
of his property. That meant he wasnt able to take delivery of materials for the work he 
planned to carry out. 
Mr M said he owned or had right of access over the land in question. The neighbours 
disputed that. Unfortunately, relations between Mr M and his neighbours deteriorated.       
Mr Ms health was affected, and his property suffered damage due to water ingress when he 
couldnt complete the works.
Mr M had legal expenses insurance (LEI) as part of his home insurance policy. Allianz were 
the LEI insurers. Other parts of the home insurance were provided by other insurers. At the 
beginning of September 2021, Mr M made a claim through his brokers under the LEI to 
cover his legal costs of pursuing a claim against the neighbours.
Allianz considered the claim under the property disputes section of the LEI policy. In        
mid-September 2021 they instructed panel solicitors to advise. Allianz told Mr M the 
solicitors would review the entire claim and that instructing them shouldnt be construed as 
acceptance of the claim. They said the solicitors would only pursue the claim if they were 
satisfied that the prospects of success for the claim exceeded 50% and the claim met the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
The solicitors issued their advice on around 4 November 2021. They said Mr M would need 
to establish ownership of the land his neighbours were obstructing or that he had a legal 
right of way over the that land. If he could do that, he might be able to pursue a claim against 
the neighbour for trespass and/or nuisance. 
The panel solicitors thought the title deeds showed the neighbour owned the disputed land. 
But Mr M had a reasonable chance of establishing ownership through adverse possession. 
An alternative claim could be made that Mr M had a right of access, although that claim 
didnt have reasonable prospects on its own. If either could be established, a claim for 
trespass or nuisance would have reasonable prospects. But those claims on their own were 
unlikely to succeed.
Allianz considered Mr Ms claim to take action to establish adverse possession and rights of 
access fell outside the terms of the LEI policy. They said the policy covered defending 
existing property rights, but not establishing new ones. And since any claim for nuisance or 
trespass didnt have reasonable prospects of success on its own, the policy conditions for 
making those claims werent met.
Mr M made a complaint which Allianz rejected. He brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in February 2022. He said the delay in progressing the claim against 
the neighbours meant the works hadnt been completed and the property couldnt be let.    
Mr M had suffered a financial loss as a result. And hed been caused distress by the 
neighbours. The property, which he had been living in, had been without sanitation since 
around April 2021.
The situation developed after Mr M had brought his complaint to us. His own solicitors 
advised him in March 2022. Allianz said their advice acknowledged he didnt have any rights 
over the disputed land. He might have an easement, but it was felt unlikely. Whilst there 
were 55% prospects of success in bringing a claim for trespass and nuisance, that claim 
depended on establishing legal rights over the disputed land. So, their position remained 
unchanged.
In April 2022 Mr M sent an email to Allianz from his solicitors which said there was an 
apparent encroachment over a sliver of land Mr M owned and on which the neighbours had 
placed items. Allianz offered to fund one third of the costs of making the claim on the basis 
there were three parts to the claim of which two were about establishing ownership or rights 
over the disputed land and one was trespass  provided the trespass claim remained live 
and had reasonable prospects of success.
Mr M wasnt happy with that and considered Allianz should fund the claim in full. He said too 
that since the rates Allianz were prepared to pay his solicitors were lower than the rates they 
charged, the offer didnt amount to one third of the costs likely to be incurred, but less than 
20%. He rejected the offer. 
Mr M also said hed taken out extra cover which he understood protected him against 
damage or unforeseen problems occurring during the works. Allianz said that wasnt to do 
with the LEI policy. They pointed out to Mr M the claim had come to them through brokers. 
They understood the buildings insurers may have received a claim for the property damage.
Our investigator took the view Allianz should cover the full legal costs of pursuing a claim 
against the neighbours. And she said they should pay £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Allianz didnt agree. So, Mr Ms complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I recently issued a provisional decision an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the problems Mr M has had in accessing his property, the difficulties 
with his neighbours and the impact the situation has had on his health. I may not mention 
here all the detailed information he and Allianz have helpfully provided to explain things. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide.To be clear, Im only considering Mr Ms claim under his LEI policy. The LEI insurers at the 
time he made his claim and who have responded to the complaint are Allianz. As Allianz 
have explained, Mr M may have cover under other parts of the home insurance policy with a 
different insurer for damage thats occurred to the property. But hed need to discuss that 
claim with his broker or the property insurers direct, not with Allianz.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Ive come to broadly the same outcome as our investigator. 
But my reasons are different in some respects. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give 
the parties time to comment or provide further information if they wish.
Im conscious the complaint Mr M made and brought to us in January 2022 is about Allianzs 
withdrawal of cover following the panel solicitors advice in November 2021. However, I think 
its reasonable to look at what happened afterwards as its part of an ongoing situation and 
Allianz have had the chance to consider and respond to the issues. 
We expect insurers to deal with claims fairly and promptly, and not to decline them 
unreasonably. The starting point for considering Mr Ms complaint, against that background, 
is the terms and conditions of the LEI policy. The policy provides cover for reasonable legal 
costs for the insured incidents set out in the policy up to a limit of £100,000 and subject to 
the definitions, terms, conditions and exclusions set out in the policy.
At its heart, Mr Ms claim is that his neighbours are trespassing on land which he owns and 
preventing access to his property. So, I think Allianz rightly considered Mr Ms claim for 
cover under the section of the policy entitled Your Home.
That section says Allianz will cover
Legal costs incurred in bringing about legal action due to any infringement of your 
legal rights to own and occupy your property. The insurer will provide cover for legal 
costs incurred by you in taking legal action in connection with:
...
2. infringement or encroachment of your use, enjoyment or rights over the 
property
3. nuisance or trespass disputes which occur at or in respect of the property.
Home is defined as Your private dwelling in the United Kingdom as detailed on your 
Policy Certificate (this includes your domestic outbuildings used in connection with the 
dwelling and any private garage or outbuilding belonging to you within 100 metres of the 
dwelling used by you). 
Property is defined as Your permanent primary residence within the territorial limits. 
It is a condition of the policy that Mr Ms claim should have reasonable prospects of success.
Reasonable prospects means
A 51% or greater chance that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any 
other legal remedy that we have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgement), 
make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of any appeal in 
your pursuit of civil proceedings or criminal proceedings.
Following notification of the claim, Allianz passed it to their panel solicitors for advice on 
policy coverage and the prospects of a successful claim being made against the neighbours. 
That was in line with the terms of the policy which said Allianz could appoint panel solicitors 
up to the point when it became necessary to issue legal proceedings. Mr M could choose to 
appoint his own solicitors then if he wished. But things hadnt reached that stage.Its reasonable for an insurer to instruct lawyers in relation to policy cover and whether a 
claim has reasonable prospects of success. They arent lawyers and its reasonable for them 
to seek professional advice. Provided the solicitors they instruct have the necessary 
expertise and experience to look at the claim, and the advice they give isnt obviously wrong, 
its reasonable for the insurer to rely on the advice.
Here, the panel solicitors were appropriately qualified, and I dont think the advice they gave 
was obviously wrong. Im not aware, for example, of any factual mistakes in the advice that 
Allianz ought to have noticed. I acknowledge Mr M felt an inspection of the original title 
deeds held by the bank could have been carried out by local solicitors. And Im aware Mr Ms 
own solicitors said later the title deeds showed a sliver of land at the rear of the property 
clearly belonged to him. But, the panel solicitors had considered the title deeds. 
Based on the panel solicitors advice I think it was reasonable for Allianz to conclude the 
policy didnt provide cover. They understood Mr M didnt own the disputed land. There was 
no cover to pursue a claim to establish he did. And any claim for trespass or nuisance didnt 
meet the policy condition of having reasonable prospects of success unless he could prove 
ownership.
But Allianz discussed things with the panel solicitors in January 2022 to check their 
understanding. The solicitors told Allianz that it could be argued the claim Mr M could make 
against the neighbours wasnt, of itself, a claim for adverse possession (or, in simple terms a 
claim to establish ownership). The claim for adverse possession was a mechanism that 
had to be used to prove the trespass.
The panel solicitors had said the prospects of successfully pursuing the adverse possession 
claim were reasonable, and that, if it did succeed, a trespass claim had reasonable 
prospects too. On balance, I think it would have been fair for Allianz to have set aside a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms and continued to fund the claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, given the prospects of success overall were reasonable. 
If theyd done that, the panel solicitors could then have got on with the case.
Allianz looked at the advice Mr Ms own solicitors provided in March 2022 and reconsidered 
their position. Mr Ms solicitors advice was broadly similar to that of the panel solicitors in 
relation to showing Mr M owned the disputed land. They said the prospects of establishing 
that were around 55%. But to have prospects of successfully making a claim against the 
neighbours for trespass and nuisance it would be necessary to establish ownership first. 
They mentioned, however, it was clear that it was always intended that there would be some 
rear access to the property and that the plan in one of the transfer documents suggested the 
access was around two metres wide. Prospects of establishing trespass were put at over 
50%.
Allianz said there was nothing in the advice that changed their mind about what could be 
covered under the policy. I think they overlooked the reference to the sliver of land. It was 
clarified in an email Mr M forwarded from his solicitors in late April. Following that, Allianz 
agreed to fund one third of the solicitors legal costs subject to certain conditions. But the 
offer appears to have been unrelated to the sliver of land. It was made on the basis Mr M 
wished to pursue three separate issues of which one related to trespass. 
I can understand Mr M was disappointed with Allianzs initial decision given the difficult 
circumstances he was in and the effect they were having on his wellbeing. I acknowledge 
Allianz continued to correspond with Mr M quite extensively and they did so in a reasonable 
way. But I dont think their initial conclusions about policy cover were fair and reasonable. And they missed an opportunity to look into things more closely when they got Mr Ms 
solicitors advice.
Im aware theres been some later confusion about which claim Mr M might wish to pursue. 
But I think its clear enough what he was claiming for initially  that there was interference 
with his property rights giving access to the rear of his property for deliveries for the works 
he was carrying out. And, for the reasons Ive explained, Allianz ought to have agreed to 
cover the claim in full, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, after 
theyd discussed things with the panel solicitors in January 2022. 
In the circumstances, I think Allianz should:
1. Treat Mr Ms claim as if cover had been accepted in January 2022.
2. Meet the legal costs Mr M has incurred since then in full  they could have been 
avoided if theyd accepted the claim.
3. Deal with Mr Ms claim in line with the terms of the policy from now on. Allianz are 
entitled to appoint panel solicitors to represent Mr M until it becomes necessary 
for proceedings to be issued. If matters reach that stage, Mr M will be able to 
instruct his own solicitors subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, which 
will include Allianz agreeing terms of engagement with those solicitors direct and 
the hourly rates they will pay.
4. Compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. Im aware  
Mr Ms health was already poor. The withdrawal of LEI cover, and the position 
taken in relation to policy cover, have delayed the action against the neighbour. I 
accept thats had an effect on Mr Ms wellbeing.
Fortunately, he hasnt had to engage in corresponding with Allianz, the solicitors 
and the neighbours as his representative has taken care of that for him. But hes 
nevertheless had to put up with the actions of his neighbours over several 
months after Allianz withdrew cover. I think the uncertainty of knowing if hed be 
funded to pursue his claim against them will have added to the stress hes been 
under.
Based on what I know so far, I think the £500 compensation our investigator 
recommended is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered.
5. I understand the claim for adverse possession may now be out of time as far as 
an application to the Land Registry is concerned. I understand Mr M was made 
aware of the deadline but given his personal circumstances I appreciate why he 
wasnt able to fund the application himself or pursue it in person. If things had 
gone as they should have, Allianz would have funded that application. If Mr M is 
now prevented from pursuing his claim at court entirely then Allianz should 
instruct a barrister to consider what he would most likely have recovered had it 
been pursued and pay Mr M for the value of that directly.
Developments
Mr M accepted my provisional decision, although hes asked whether the costs his 
representative has incurred can be paid by Allianz. Allianz have rejected my provisional decision and made several points in response, which Ill 
summarise:
1. Mr M needs to establish rights over land before he is entitled to policy cover. The 
policy doesnt cover the cost of that work, in line with other legal expenses insurance 
policies. Allianz have pointed to two previous Financial Ombudsman Service 
decisions where thats been recognised. Rather than asking them to set aside a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms, Allianz say I am asking them to disregard the 
purpose of the policy.
2. Their panel solicitors addressed the land retained by the property now owned by the 
neighbours over which theyd denied access. They advised Mr M wouldnt be able to 
prove he owned it and had no existing legal rights over it. Ive misunderstood what 
the solicitors said in January 2022 about the adverse possession application. Its a 
separate legal issue to the trespass claim. The solicitors clarified in early February 
2022 that Mr M would need to establish a legal right over the piece of land in 
question before he could pursue a nuisance claim.
3. Mr Ms solicitors addressed the issue in their advice, which Allianz considered. That 
made clear there was still a dispute over the location of the boundary and/or Mr Ms 
access over the piece of land over which he has not yet proved ownership and over 
which he had no existing rights.
4. Its inaccurate to say Allianz overlooked the sliver of land. And they disagree they 
missed any opportunity to look into things further. Their requests for 
information/clarification went via Mr Ms representative. It was difficult to progress 
things since they didnt have direct access to the solicitors and found the 
representatives communications confusing and contradictory. When they had 
clarification from Mr Ms solicitors in April 2022 that there was an encroachment onto 
Mr Ms land, they offered to meet one third of the legal costs in pursuing a claim.
5. They had been aware of the encroachment previously. And the offer was made on 
the basis two thirds of the claim relates to adverse possession/easement claims over 
the disputed piece of land, which arent covered under the policy. And one third 
relates to the breach of Mr Ms legal rights relating to encroachment on his side of the 
boundary where there is technically a trespass, even though it isnt viable as a 
standalone claim. So, their offer was an exercise of discretion.
6. Allianz understand the basis of Mr Ms claim has changed since he brought it to us. 
How is unclear. But if Mr Ms claim falls within the policy terms and conditions, they 
will meet it.
7. In relation to my proposed redress, Allianz said:
a. There was no basis on which they should treat Mr Ms claim as if cover had been 
accepted in January 2022 or pay the legal costs hed incurred since then or 
compensation. To require them to would be unfair since, for the reasons theyd 
explained, he isnt entitled to cover.
b. Its unclear what Mr M is now seeking cover for, so they arent able to deal with 
the claim in line with the policy terms.
c. Mr Ms representative could have made the adverse possession claim. Allianz 
question why, when hes already incurred solicitors fees, Mr M didnt have funds 
to make it. It was time critical, as he knew. Based on his solicitors advice, Mr M still had the chance of making the application in March 2022. He had a duty to 
take steps to protect his position. My proposed direction in relation to this is 
unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms query and Allianzs detailed submissions in response to my 
provisional decision carefully. Im grateful to Allianz for clarifying their position and explaining 
the basis of the offer they made to Mr M.
Im not persuaded the nature of Mr Ms proposed claim against his neighbour has changed 
substantively since he originally brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I mentioned 
in my provisional decision there had been confusion about that. Whether or not Mr M thinks 
its necessary, the lawyers have advised he needs to establish rights over the disputed area 
of land to pursue claims for trespass and nuisance over that land. His complaint relates to 
the withdrawal of cover to pursue such claims. That is the complaint Ive considered, and the 
parties have had the opportunity of commenting on. I think the position is clear. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks at every complaint on its individual merits to come 
to a decision thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. It isnt bound by 
precedent. 
This complaint involves a claim for trespass and nuisance over land where ownership is in 
question. Mr M had provided documentation and information that satisfied the panel 
solicitors he had a reasonable chance of successfully claiming adverse possession over the 
disputed area of land. And if he was successful in that, hed likely be able to establish 
trespass over that land.
Ive considered Allianzs arguments as to why the issues should be considered as separate, 
and why claims for establishing property rights arent covered under the policy. But in this 
case, I dont agree. The issue of where the boundary lies is not the only issue. The trespass 
and nuisance claims that are covered under the policy are bound up with the ownership and 
access issues. The panel solicitors recognised that in the advice they initially gave in 
November 2021. They reiterated it when they discussed things with Allianz in January 2022. 
And Mr Ms solicitors later advice broadly confirmed what the panel solicitors said. 
Bearing everything in mind, Im still of the view that its fair and reasonable, in the individual 
circumstances of this case, to set aside a strict interpretation of the policy wording and for 
Allianz to meet the claim, subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy. 
I acknowledge Allianz found communication with Mr Ms representative challenging. I 
appreciate they made efforts to come to a resolution they felt was reasonable. However, 
having carefully considered all the points Allianz have made, I remain of the view, on 
balance, that it was unreasonable for Allianz to have withdrawn cover in early January 2022, 
as Ive explained. That was before Allianzs more detailed communications with Mr Ms 
representative. And in any event, its fair and reasonable to compensate Mr M for distress 
and inconvenience he suffered when his cover was withdrawn, even though Allianz tried to 
find a solution afterwards.
The panel solicitors said an application for adverse possession may be required by early February 2022, although the action they proposed was sending a letter of claim to the 
neighbours. Had Allianz accepted the claim in January, its reasonable to think things are 
likely to have gone differently. Allianz could have controlled what happened and been able to 
act on the panel solicitors recommendations. Its reasonable to think they would have 
authorised the adverse possession application if time was felt to be of the essence. 
Although Mr Ms solicitors mentioned in March 2022 that there were time limits for making an 
application for adverse possession, they didnt advise Mr M to make one then. I 
acknowledge they took further action by corresponding with the neighbours. That seems to 
have been based on their advice a negotiated resolution was the way forward. It was 
reasonable for Mr M to rely on that advice whilst continuing to pursue his LEI claim. Mr Ms 
personal circumstances meant he was reliant on his representative to take action. His 
representative was meeting the costs on Mr Ms behalf and has told us he didnt have 
sufficient funds to take further steps after that.
In all the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr M to have pursued an 
adverse possession application. And its fair to make the direction I proposed in my 
provisional decision, on the basis the earliest date Allianz ought reasonably to have 
authorised an application would have been around 14 days after theyd discussed the claim 
with the panel solicitors on 6 January, so 20 January 2022.
Bearing everything in mind, I see no reason to change the outcome I came to in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that Allianz should take the actions set out in my provisional decision to 
put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Allianz Insurance plc to:
1. Treat Mr Ms claim as if cover had been accepted in January 2022.
2. Meet the legal costs Mr M has incurred since then in full.
3. Deal with Mr Ms claim in line with the terms of the policy from now on. Allianz are 
entitled to appoint panel solicitors to represent Mr M until it becomes necessary for 
proceedings to be issued. If matters reach that stage, Mr M will be able to instruct his 
own solicitors subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, which will include 
Allianz agreeing terms of engagement with those solicitors direct and the hourly rates 
they will pay.
4. Pay Mr M £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
5. If Mr M is prevented from pursuing his claim for adverse possession at court entirely, 
then Allianz should instruct a barrister to consider what he would most likely have 
recovered if they had authorised the claim to be pursued on 20 January 2022 and 
pay Mr M for the value of that directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman