DRN-2663763
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the amount of compensation that Santander UK Plc have offered her 
for repeatedly sending documents to an incorrect address despite being told by Miss P that 
she believed this was happening.
What happened
In July 2020, Miss P contacted Santander to request copies of tax deduction certificates 
(TDCs) which Miss P needed in order to complete tax returns for HMRC.
Santander sent the TDCs in the post, but Miss P didnt receive them. Miss P contacted 
Santander and re-requested the TDCs. Miss P also expressed her concern that the TDCs 
may have been posted to her previous address, as they were for a time period when she 
resided at her previous address. Santander assured Miss P that this wasnt the case.
Miss P still didnt receive the TDCs. So, she called Santander again and again asked 
Santander to make sure that the TDCs werent being sent to her old address. Santander 
sent the TDCs in the post again, but again they werent received by Miss P.
It was eventually determined by Santander that the TDCs had most likely been sent to Miss 
Ps old address. Miss P wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. Santander 
acknowledged that an error had occurred and made an offer of £250 compensation to Miss 
P. Santander later increased their offer of compensation to £550.
Miss P didnt feel that Santanders offer went far enough and thought that £750 represented 
a fair level of compensation for the inconvenience and upset she had experienced. So, she 
referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the amended offer of £550 
represented fair and reasonable compensation for what had happened. Miss P remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must note that its beyond the remit of this service to make a decision about whether a 
breach of data has occurred  this would be a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office to decide. However, Santander dont dispute than an error occurred, and so the issue 
here isnt about whether a data breach occurred but whether the offer of compensation 
made by Santander for the acknowledged error is a fair and reasonable one  and this is 
something that it is within the remit of this service to consider.
It must be noted that while this service acknowledges that the severity of an error should 
have an influence on the amount of compensation that is offered, with more disruptive errors 
generally warranting higher offers of compensation that less disruptive ones, there isnt a 
definitive scale that can be applied. In short, it isnt the case that there is a right amount of 
compensation that can be offered. Rather, what this service would expect is that a business 
considers the overall impact of what has taken place and makes an offer of compensation 
that feels fair, generally speaking, in relation to that impact.
Compensation is a subjective issue, and an offer which is considered fair and reasonable by 
one party may not be considered as such by another. I understand that Miss P doesnt feel 
that the offer of £550 made by Santander in this instance sufficiently recognises the trouble 
and upset that she incurred here, especially in light of the numerous phone calls that she 
had to make and the fact that she correctly diagnosed what was happening and told 
Santander about this, only for Santander to continue to send the TDCs to the wrong 
address.
But the offer of £550 does feel fair and reasonable to me, and Id like to assure Miss P that 
Santanders offer is commensurate with what this service would expect to see here, given 
the circumstances. And, while I acknowledge that Miss P feels that an offer of £750 would be 
more appropriate, I cant reasonably ask Santander to increase their offer of compensation 
at this time, given that I cant conclude that the £550 offer of compensation which Santander 
have made is inappropriate.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any 
further action here, beyond that to which they have already agreed. I realise that this wont 
be the outcome that Miss P was wanting, but I hope she can understand, given everything 
that I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman