DRN-2117841
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection policy (TMPP).
What happened
In 2003 Mr M took out TMPP cover to protect his mortgage repayments. 
The policy included PPI in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. It also 
provided life cover and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint that the PPI elements of the 
TMPP had been mis-sold to Mr M.  
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator. He mainly complains that the advisor he spoke to was 
persistent in selling him PPI he didnt need. Mr M told us that he had employment benefits, 
savings he couldve relied on and significant equity in his house as his mortgage was only 
around a third of its market value at the time. 
Mr M said hes also concerned that hes just had to guess at the amount of savings he had 
at the time. And he says Halifax appears to be relying on information hes provided now 
retrospectively to justify the PPI sale to him in 2003.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I wouldnt expect Mr M to remember exactly what was discussed when he took out PPI so 
long ago. I've taken into account that he recalls the advisor was pushy. But what Mr M says 
about the way he was sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. This includes what Mr M 
has told us he remembers about his circumstances and financial situation when he took out 
the PPI. 
Although Halifax cant show me anything signed by Mr M that shows how he took out PPI, 
I think its likely that Halifax made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it out.
I say this because we already know from looking at other cases what the process was when 
Halifax sold TMPP. And weve seen examples of the paperwork Mr M wouldve had to fill in. 
Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales process. So 
I think its likely that PPI was discussed and recommended for him  and that fits with what 
Mr M remembers about the sale. 
This means that Mr M wouldve been made aware it was up to him to choose if he wanted to 
add PPI to his account. On balance, it seems likely to me that Mr M was persuaded of the 
benefits of protecting his mortgage monthly repayments and he decided to buy PPI. 
Halifax says it advised Mr M to take out the policy. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.
Mr M was eligible for the policy. PPI wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for up to 24 
months per claim if Mr M was off work through accident or sickness. So the policy wouldve 
covered him for a lot longer than he couldve relied on getting sick pay. I think this couldve 
been a useful benefit for Mr M if hed needed to claim  especially if he mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being off work ill or with a disability.
Also, the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr M lost his job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
I dont think its likely that Mr M wouldve wanted to be forced to sell his home just because 
he couldnt afford to make his monthly mortgage repayments. And its possible that the 
option of re-mortgaging in order to make the monthly repayments more affordable mightnt 
have been open to him if he wasnt able to work.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr M if he 
was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he 
mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr M some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
I've taken carefully into account what Mr M told us about his savings at the time. Its 
completely understandable that after so long he may not now be able to say with any 
certainty what the exact amount of his savings wouldve been then. But this doesnt make 
any overall difference to the outcome of his complaint. Heres why I say this.
There was no guarantee when Mr M took out this mortgage that he would always have 
savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim because everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr M didnt put all his money towards keeping down the cost of the mortgage, 
perhaps because he preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial security or to spend 
on other things, then I think he wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. Having PPI 
meant that Mr M could be sure hed be able to pay the mortgage monthly repayments 
without breaking into savings.  
Mr M mentioned that having the critical illness cover he also took out as part of the TMPP 
would override the need for PPI in the event of certain illnesses. But PPI provided a different 
sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances. So the fact that Mr M chose to buy critical illness cover doesnt mean that the PPI he also 
bought at the same time was unsuitable for him. 
Mr M couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving him long term cover for his 
mortgage. 
Having PPI meant Mr M could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home. I think that wouldve been an important 
consideration at the time. 
So I can see why Mr M mightve wanted PPI to cover his mortgage  even if hes forgotten 
this now. 
I find the PPI was a suitable recommendation for him. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Ms case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision to take it out.
Possibly some information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. 
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made I think the policy provided a worthwhile benefit to Mr M. 
As he also took out other parts of the TMPP cover offered it doesnt look like keeping costs 
down was a priority for Mr M and Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
him. So thats not a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way PPI was sold to Mr M. But I think 
he still wouldve decided to buy the PPI even if hed been better informed as the policy gave 
Mr M useful protection in his particular situation. 
I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means I dont find that Mr M has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr M has said, 
including his comments in response to our adjudicators view. 
Although Mr M mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint I can see 
that our adjudicator has responded on those issues. 
So in my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman