DRN-2310509
The complaint
Mr J says that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In June 1999 Mr J took out a Nationwide mortgage - without PPI. 
In December 2000 he took out PPI to protect his mortgage monthly repayments. The policy 
covered Mr J in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr J disagrees. He 
mainly says the policy was mis-sold because he felt pressured into taking it out but it didn't 
provide him with useful cover as he had sufficient savings and good work benefits he 
couldve relied on to cover the mortgage payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. 
But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr J has told us about the way he says Nationwide sold 
him the PPI. But what Mr J says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr J to recall exactly what happened or what 
was discussed at the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think 
is most likely. And I must be impartial. 
In order to be able to uphold Mr Js mis-selling complaint, Id have to find that its likely he 
wasnt given a fair choice about PPI when he took it out or that it was added to the account 
without his consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr Js mortgage without his consent. 
I say this because PPI was taken out to protect Mr Js mortgage around 18 months or so 
after his mortgage started. So I think he wouldve understood at the time that PPI wasnt 
required as part of the mortgage as his mortgage had already been running for around a 
year and a half without PPI. 
So I think Mr J wouldve understood that having PPI was optional and that it was up to him to 
apply for cover if he wanted it. 
And it appears that Mr J selected only the parts of the policy he wanted since he didnt take 
out accident and sickness cover but protection against unemployment only. That makes me 
think Mr J thought carefully about his specific requirements and decided that tailoring the 
policy benefits this way best suited his particular circumstances and requirements at the 
time.
The mortgage was a major financial commitment which was arranged to be repaid over a 
substantial number of years. Mr Js home wouldve been at risk if his mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover which I think Mr J couldve found 
useful if hed needed to claim. So, I can see why Mr J mightve decided he wanted to have 
the security that PPI offered him  even if he didn't choose to take it out at the start of the 
mortgage. 
I can completely understand if hes forgotten now. But, on balance, I think its likely that Mr J 
decided he wanted to protect his home by having the benefits the policy offered him against 
unemployment and it was added on to his mortgage account when he chose to buy the PPI. 
I've taken into account that Mr J says a conversation took place and Nationwide actively 
promoted and recommended the policy. And I understand that Mr J feels the policy was 
completely unsuitable for his needs given his view that it wasnt cost effective for him bearing 
in mind comprehensive benefits provided by his employer and his savings - which he says 
together exceeded the policy benefits.
I cant uphold this complaint just based on what Mr J has said. Nationwide says it didnt 
personally advise Mr J to take out PPI  it told us that its representative wouldve given him a 
leaflet explaining the policy benefits. And I think its likely, given what Mr J recalls about the 
sale, that the representative quite likely wouldve talked to him about what the policy offered. 
So it wasnt up to Nationwide to check whether the policy was suitable for Mr Js needs.
But Nationwide still should have told Mr J enough about the policy for him to be able to 
decide if he wanted to buy it. And if that didnt happen, I have to decide whether this makes 
any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint.
I think, broadly speaking, its likely that Nationwide did give Mr J enough clear information for 
him to be able to decide if PPI was right for him - and where it mightnt have done, better 
information wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Js decision to take out PPI. 
It looks to me like Mr J was eligible for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim in the event he lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
I've taken carefully into account everything Mr J has told me about his work benefits  
including his redundancy payment and the extra payments that he couldve expected to 
accrue during a 24 weeks notice period he was entitled to.
But that doesnt affect my decision.
Mr J has said this meant PPI wasnt suitable for his needs - but it wasnt up to Nationwide to 
assess suitability. It was Mr Js choice whether to have PPI or not. 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving Mr J some additional financial security in those circumstances.So I can see why he mightve felt that PPI offered him a useful benefit  despite his 
workplace benefits. 
I dont know if Mr J wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like he preferred not to spend savings he had invested, or he had other plans for 
that money, since he took out this mortgage rather than invest savings in buying the house. 
Also, having PPI meant Mr J wasnt at risk of being forced to take out of the share account 
money he had invested  perhaps at a time not of his choosing when he mightnt have been 
able to achieve the return he hoped for, given that the value of savings he had invested 
could go up or down. 
Having PPI meant Mr J could depend on being able to cash in his investments when he felt 
the time was right, to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future.  
Mr J couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for his 
mortgage.
So I think the policy offered Mr J useful benefits given his particular circumstances. 
To my mind, its completely understandable that he couldve thought the benefits the policy 
offered him were worth paying for  even if hes forgotten this now.
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr J about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it appears that he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the 
unemployment cover hed taken out. So I dont think that having better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations is likely to have put Mr J off taking out the cover he chose. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr J at the outset. 
But he appears to have tailored the PPI to meet his specific requirements so it looks like this 
reflected his wishes at the time and he was happy to pay for the cover he wanted to have. 
And I've seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for him  so thats 
not a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
This was a policy he paid for monthly so Mr J was able to cancel it at any time if he no longer 
wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr J wouldve made a different decision about whether to 
take out PPI if clearer information had been provided. 
On balance, I think hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr J has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman