DRN-3751971
The complaint
Miss A is complaining about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM). 
Shes unhappy with actions they took in relation to the investment accounts she held with 
them.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss A logged into her HLAM online account but was no longer able to 
see any details of her investments. She asked over secure message why this was the case 
but wasnt given a satisfactory answer. This continued over the next couple of months  with 
the detailed information no longer being visible to her, and not being told why. In early 
February 2021, Miss A received a letter saying that HLAM were closing her account. 
Miss A was unhappy that shed not had access to her investments online for an extended 
period, and that her account was closed without explanation. She complained to HLAM. In 
response, HLAM said theyd closed Miss As account in line with their terms and conditions  
which allowed them to close it for any reason as long as they gave 30 days notice. Miss A 
remained unhappy so she came to our service. Her father, Mr A, represented her in the 
complaint. 
HLAM eventually explained that theyd restricted Miss As online access in November 2020 
because of certain trades made on the account. They said theyd warned Mr A, who held a 
linked account, about this in advance and so were entitled to restrict access without notice. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and said she didnt think HLAM had done anything 
wrong. But Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He accepted that the 
account closure was in line with HLAMs terms and conditions but said the restricted access 
was not. He added that any warning given to him wasnt relevant to his daughters account 
and that the helpdesk should have been able to explain the restricted access to Miss A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for Miss A, Im not upholding her complaint - for 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain below. Because Miss As accepted our 
investigators findings in relation to the closure of her account, Ive only considered the 
complaint point about Miss As online access to her account being restricted.
It must have been frustrating for Miss A to log in to her account only to find that she couldnt 
see any information about her investments. And I can see that the responses from the HLAM 
helpdesk to her queries werent helpful. 
However, warning was given to Mr A on 28 January 2020 about some of the trades hed 
been making on both his and his wifes account: If similar activity is noted on your other 
linked account (specifically [Miss As account number]), this account will also be suspended 
from online trading without further notice. Given that the accounts are linked, it seems 
reasonable for HLAM to have assumed Mr A and Miss A would have discussed the issue, 
particularly when Miss A found she was no longer able to access the accounts online. 
Mr As view is that HLAMs terms and conditions dont allow them to restrict online access. 
However, they do include the following: You are entitled to reasonable use of the HL 
Service. If we, in our reasonable opinion, deem your usage is not reasonable use, we 
reserve the right to cease providing the HL Service to you. Given that the account was used 
for the sort of activity HLAM had specifically warned Mr A about, its fair to say that usage 
wasnt reasonable. 
Im satisfied HLAM acted fairly in restricting Miss As online access. Had she wanted more 
information about her investments or wanted to make a trade, she could have phoned 
HLAM, or even emailed them. Im aware she says she tried to phone a couple of times but 
the lines were busy. This suggests the matter was of limited importance to Miss A. 
In addition, looking at the correspondence between Miss A and the helpdesk about the 
restricted access Im further persuaded that it wasnt particularly important or urgent  she 
first asked about it on 18 November 2020, HLAM replied on 26 November suggesting she 
call the helpdesk if the problem persisted. Miss A didnt reply further until 15 January 2021. 
I do think HLAM could have communicated better with Miss A about the restricted access  it 
would have been better if the helpdesk had been able to tell Miss A why she couldnt access 
her accounts online. HLAM have acknowledged this  but comment that it wouldnt have 
made any difference as Miss A would still have been unable trade online.
To conclude, its clear in hindsight that HLAM restricted Miss As online access because of 
certain trades that had been carried out. Given that HLAM had warned Mr A that this would 
happen, and that Mr As and Miss As accounts were linked, Im satisfied HLAM acted fairly 
in restricting the account. Its unfortunate that HLAM didnt communicate the reasons for the 
restriction to Miss A at the time, but I cant say that this had any significant impact on Miss A. 
The matter didnt seem important or urgent to her, and knowing why the account was 
restricted wouldnt have changed the fact that it was. So Im satisfied HLAM dont need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman