DRN-2626495
The complaint
Miss N has complained that U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) authorised repairers didnt repair
her car properly following claims on her car insurance policy. And shes said this led to the
engine on her car failing and  as a result of this - Miss N has been without her car since
December 2019.  
What happened
Miss Ns car was in an accident in April 2019 and was repaired by one of UKIs authorised
repairers. She had another accident in October and the car went to the same repairer for
repairs. When Miss N got the car back after the second repair she discovered the demisters
and heating werent working. And on her next journey warning lights on her dash indicated
the temperature in the radiator was high. She contacted UKIs authorised repairer and they
told her to top up her radiator with water, which she did. The car seemed fine the next day
when Miss N was on her way to work, but on the journey home a number of warning lights
appeared on her dash, including the engine light. Miss N managed to get the car home,
although it cut out a few times.
Miss N contacted UKIs authorised repairer on the following Monday and they collected her
car for an inspection. They contacted her a day later to say the water pipe to the radiator had
come loose, which was causing high temperatures in the radiator. They said theyd repair
the car and Miss N understands they started doing this, including fitting a new radiator. But
then the authorised repairer contacted her and said the damage was due to a manufacturing
fault. And they asked Miss N to arrange for the car to be transferred to a specialist
dealership.
Miss N arranged this and the dealership inspected the car and said the damage was not due
to a manufacturing fault, but due to faulty repairs carried out on Miss Ns car in April 2019.
Miss N told UKI this and they got one of their engineers to inspect the car. He said the
damage was due to a manufacturing fault. As a result UKI refused to arrange or pay for any 
further repairs to Miss Ns car. Miss N complained to UKI, but they rejected her complaint on 
the basis that the expert evidence suggested the problem with her car was due to a
manufacturing fault. Although they did pay her £100 in compensation for delays in dealing 
with the issue.
Miss N complained to us and provided a further engineers report on the problem with her
car. Our investigator explained to UKI why he felt Miss Ns complaint should be upheld and
they should arrange and pay for her car to be repaired and pay her £200 in compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
UKI came back with some comments from one of their engineers. The engineers opinion
was that it was most likely the previous repair had led to the problem with Miss Ns car. And
the case handler at UKI asked at the end of her email whether Miss N had agreed with the
investigators view.
The investigator decided to put the complaint forward for an ombudsmans decision and
asked both Miss N and UKI for any further comments. Miss N said she felt the compensation
should be higher. UKI queried why the case had been put forward for a decision.
Eventually the case was passed to me and I discussed the current position with Miss N. Her
car is still at a local garage awaiting repair. And she has explained how she bought a fairly 
cheap run-around car second-hand in September 2020 to enable her to get to and from her 
role as a key worker. She said prior to this her parents were giving her a lift to and from 
work, as she was not comfortable using public transport due to the pandemic. She explained 
that she didnt really use the run-around car for much else other than work once she got it  
again due to the pandemic.
I asked Miss N to get an estimate for the repair of her car, along with some details of the
insurance for the other car she bought, which she provided.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2020 in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear from what UKIs engineer has said and their covering email that UKI now
agrees it was a faulty repair by their authorised repairer  probably when they repaired the
car in April 2019  that led to the problems with Miss Ns car. And from what UKI said and
what theyve said since, it seems they are willing to pay for Miss Ns car to be repaired.
However, for the sake of completeness, I should say that I think the expert evidence
provided overwhelmingly suggests UKIs authorised repairer didnt complete the work
needed properly when they repaired Miss Ns car in April 2019. And it was this led to the
engine on her car failing. I say this because I find the reports provided by the experts who
Miss N asked to look at her car compelling. And what happened to the car ties in exactly with
what theyve said. And I think UKI and their engineers failure to properly identify this initially
eventually led to Miss Ns car overheating and major damage to the engine. I also think that
after this had happened UKI should have accepted that their repairer had caused the
problems and it shouldnt have needed Miss N to complain to us and provide a further report
for them to accept they needed to take responsibility and arrange and pay for Miss Ns car to
be repaired.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ns complaint is for UKI to pay for Miss
Ns car to be repaired and pay her compensation for the period she was without a car. Miss
N has now provided an estimate for the repairs at £5,111.67, which looks reasonable based
on the evidence of the damage Ive seen. Our investigator will provide a copy of this
estimate to UKI separately. And I think in view of the length of time Miss N has been without
her car, UKI should now pay her this amount in cash, so she can organise the repairs with
the dealership as soon as possible. I also think UKI should pay Miss N £500 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced in the period she was
without a car and generally. I think this level of compensation reflects the fact Miss N needed
a car less than normal due to the pandemic and was able to get lifts to and from work. But it
takes in to account the fact she still had a significant amount of inconvenience which would
have been avoided if UKI had accepted responsibility when they should have done.
I gave both parties until 22 February to provide further comments. 
Miss N contacted me straight away to explain that she wasnt happy with the level of 
compensation Id awarded for the fact shed been without her car. I reconsidered based on 
what she said and wrote to UKI to explain that in addition to the £500 Id awarded for 
distress and inconvenience, Id also provisionally decided to award a further £1,590 for loss 
of use to cover the period December 2019 to July 2020. I explained that thought this 
reflected the period Miss N was without her car due to UKIs failure to accept that the problems with it stemmed from a poor repair by its authorised repairer. I also pointed out I 
had misquoted the figure in the estimate provided by Miss N for repairing her car in my 
provisional decision and that the amount involved is actually £5,511.67.
Miss N has come back to say she is now happy with the level of compensation Ive 
suggested. 
UKI has come back and queried whether the £500 I have awarded for distress and 
inconvenience is in addition to the £100 it has already paid to Miss N for delays. Its also 
pointed out that when it reviewed Miss Ns complaint she hadnt been without her car during 
a pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI havent challenged my view that a poor repair by their authorised repairer led to the 
problems with Miss Ns car and that as a result of this they should pay to put it right as part 
of the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ns complaint. So I see no reason to alter my 
view that UKI should pay Miss N the cost of having her car repaired based on the estimate 
she has provided. 
The £500 I think is due for the general distress and inconvenience Miss N experienced is in 
addition to the £100 UKI paid her for this some time ago. This is because I think £600 overall 
fairly reflects the general distress and inconvenience Miss N experienced up to the point UKI 
seemed to suggest they were willing to pay for her car to be repaired. I appreciate UKIs 
point that when they originally considered Miss Ns complaint she hadnt been without her 
car during a pandemic while still paying a large amount out each month to keep it. However, 
the period she was without her car and didnt have an alternative flowed directly from what I 
consider to be UKIs unfair decision not to accept that the problems with her car were due to 
a poor repair by their authorised repairer. So I still think its fair and reasonable for Miss N to 
be compensated for the general distress and inconvenience she experienced in this period 
and for loss of use of her car, ie between mid-December 2019 and July 2020. I suggested 
£10 per day for the period mid-December to mid-March (90 days), as there was more 
inconvenience in this period, as we werent in a pandemic and Miss N was free to travel 
around as normal. And £5 per day for the rest of the period (mid-March to end-July), which 
was 138 days. This means I think a total payment of £1,590 is appropriate for loss of use. 
Putting things right
As Ive already explained above, I think UKI should compensate Mrs N by paying the cost of 
repairing her car, plus an additional £500 in compensation for general distress and 
inconvenience and £1,590 for loss of use.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, in my provisional decision dated 8 February 2021 and in my 
email to UKI dated 11 February 2021, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ns complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited must do the following:
Pay Miss N £5,511.67 for the repairs required to her car;
pay Miss N an additional £500 in compensation for general distress and 
inconvenience; and pay Miss N £1,590 for the loss of use of her car.
U K Insurance Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them Miss N has accepted 
my final decision. If they pay later than this they should add simple interest to the 
compensation at a rate of 8% simple per year, from the date of my decision to the date they 
make payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman