DRN-3384937
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 18 March 2019, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. He paid a deposit of £499 and the agreement was for £4,000 over 36 
months; with monthly repayments of £148.30. At the time the car was almost nine years old 
and had done 92,444 miles.
The cam belt on the car was replaced by a garage of the supplying dealerships choice, 
whom Ill call K, before the car was supplied to Mr H. Mr H said the air conditioning (air-con) 
wasnt working and he returned the car to the dealership to have this fixed. K replaced the 
air-con pump under warranty. And, because of the warranty limits, a reconditioned pump 
was used.
However, when the car was returned to him, Mr H complained of a noise that wasnt there 
before, and which got worse. Mr H took the car to a local garage, whom Ill call G, and they 
said the problem was with the replacement air-con pump. On 2 June 2019, Mr H asked the 
dealership for permission for G to replace the air-con pump, at a cost of £410 plus VAT. But 
the dealership refused this, saying that K would need to do any repairs. Mr H wasnt happy 
with this but agreed. The car was collected for repair on 17 June 2019 and Mr H was 
provided with a courtesy car by the dealership.
The dealership arranged for the car to be inspected by a different garage, whom Ill call C, 
who were a manufacturers specialist. And, on 27 June 2019, C said there were issues with 
the tensioning of the cam belt, the alternator pulley, the air-con pump, and the injector 
washers. And they estimated £1,386.81 for the costs of these repairs.
Mr H asked the dealership if these repairs could be carried out by C, but the dealership 
again said that K would need to do the work under warranty. They also told Mr H that, if he 
wasnt prepared to allow K to do the work, then hed have to bear the cost of the repairs.
Mr H wasnt happy with this, and he independently instructed C to do the work. He also 
complained to Moneybarn. In response, Moneybarn said it was fair for K to complete the 
work. But they would arrange for an independent engineer to inspect the car, after the work 
was done, to ensure it was all carried out to a satisfactory standard. They also said they 
wouldnt cover the costs if Mr H had the work done by C, and hed need to pay for this 
himself.
Mr H rejected Moneybarns offer, returned the courtesy car to the dealership, and C 
successfully completed the repairs. Mr H also told C that he didnt need a courtesy car while 
the car was being repaired, and he hired a car instead. Mr H then complained to us that 
Moneybarn wouldnt cover the cost of C repairing the car or the cost of a hire car.
Our investigator said its common practice for car finance providers and dealerships not to 
allow or accept third-party repairs because, if there were any problems with the repairs, they 
wouldnt be able to take liability for these. And she said that Moneybarn had offered to repair 
the car; provide Mr H with a courtesy car while the repairs were being done; and have the 
car independently inspected after the repairs had been done, to ensure that the repairs had 
been carried out to an acceptable standard. 
Because she said this goes beyond what wed normally recommend in the circumstances, 
the investigator thought this was a reasonable offer. And, if Mr H had accepted the offer, 
then the repairs couldve been carried out at no cost to him. However, as Mr H rejected the 
offer, and went ahead with the repairs himself, the investigator said Moneybarn didnt need 
to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said he wasnt comfortable with K carrying out the 
work, as theyd used second-hand parts when completing the initial repairs. And he said the 
dealership recommended that C do the repairs. But now they wont pay the bill. He also said 
that hed been told by C that the car was unsafe to drive, which is why he hired a car.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr H to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put 
this right.When Mr H took possession of the car, it was almost nine years old and had done 92,444 
miles. Id expect to see substantial wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I 
think that any reasonable person would expect major components to need replacing much 
sooner than with a low mileage car, and for there to be costs associated with this.
The cam belt and the air-con pump are items that I wouldnt expect to last the lifetime of the 
car, and Id expect these to need replacing given the age and mileage of the car. Because of 
this, and without any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied these needed replacing due to 
normal in use wear and tear. So, the need for the repairs doesnt mean the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when the car was supplied. And Id expect the costs of the work to be 
covered by the warranty taken out by Mr H, and isnt something Id say Moneybarn are 
responsible for under the CRA.
It's clear from the evidence that the cam belt, fitted by K before the car was supplied to Mr H, 
was incorrectly tensioned. And the reconditioned air-con pump K fitted to fix the air-con was 
the source of the increased noise after the repair had been completed. So, I can understand 
why Mr H was reluctant to let K do any further repairs.
As these were warranty repairs, and I think its reasonable that the dealership who supplied 
the warranty asked K, their preferred garage, to undertake the repairs. And I also think its 
reasonable that K were given an opportunity to rectify the problems caused by the cam belt 
and air-con pump they fitted. And I dont think the fact that the dealership had C inspect the 
car, to independently confirm what work (if any) needed doing changes this.
On 1 July 2019, the dealership told Mr H they wouldnt cover the cost of the repairs if these 
werent done by K. But Mr H said that, on 4 July 2019, he decided to get C to repair that car 
anyway, and then claim back the costs from Moneybarn. This was because C had told him 
the car wasnt safe to drive, and because Moneybarn would take too long to deal with his 
complaint and the car needed to be repaired. So, he returned the courtesy car he had to the 
dealership and took out a hire car instead. And he told C I will not require the use of one of 
your load [sic] cars.
I havent seen any evidence that the car was unsafe to drive. And I also think that Mr H also 
had a duty to mitigate any potential costs. So, I dont think taking out a hire car at this stage 
was reasonable, and it wouldve been more appropriate to wait for Moneybarn to respond.
Moneybarn replied to Mr H on 10 July 2019, offering to have the car repaired and then 
independently inspected after the repairs, to ensure theyd been done to a satisfactory level. 
And they offered to provide Mr H with a courtesy car while the repairs were being done. This 
offer was made seven days before C were booked to undertake the repairs. 
Moneybarn were aware how Mr H felt about K, and I think their offer was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And Mr H had sufficient time to accept this offer before C started work.
Both the dealership and Moneybarn told Mr H, before C undertook any work, that they 
wouldnt cover the costs of any repairs if he insisted on using C to do them. But, knowing 
this, Mr H went ahead and instructed C to do the work. He also refused the offer of a 
courtesy car, choosing to pay for a hire car instead. Given this, Im satisfied that Mr Hs 
decision was taken in the full knowledge that he would be responsible for the cost of both the 
repairs and alternative transportation while the repairs were taking place. While I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, its for these reasons why I dont think that 
Moneybarn should now reimburse him for these costs. And I wont be asking them to do so.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Moneybarn Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman