DRN-3916613
The complaint
Mrs L complains that although Canada Life Limited has accepted it mis-sold a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution policy (FSAVC), it hasnt acted fairly in how it offered to put 
things right.
What happened
Mrs L took out a FSAVC policy with Canada Life in 1993. In 2000 she stopped paying into 
the policy and in 2003 she vested the FSAVC and took the benefit as a single life annuity.
Mrs L complained to Canada Life in 2020. She said shed received unsuitable advice to 
take out the FSAVC policy when she couldve invested in her employers in-house AVC 
scheme. She thought she wouldve been better advised to buy added years in her 
employers scheme.
Canada Life looked into her complaint. It said it hadnt been able to find sufficient evidence 
Mrs L was made aware of her employers in-house AVC options. It engaged a specialist 
firm to calculate the amount of compensation she should receive as a result.
Using various assumptions, it said Mrs L couldve purchased three years and 26 days 
added years in her employers pension scheme. Taking account of increases in deferment 
and accumulating interest to October 2020, it said that the difference between what she 
had received from her annuity (from October 2003 to October 2020) and what she would 
have received under her employers scheme (from the date she had retired  May 2011  
to October 2020) was £6,704.15. It offered to pay her this amount as a cash payment.
Canada Life then considered what Mrs Ls future loss might be. It said her future loss was 
£37,742.82. Canada Life said this was equivalent to a top up of her existing single life 
annuity of £1,891.64 per annum. It offered to pay her this extra amount, on a non-
increasing basis, annually from October 2020.
Mrs L, who is represented by a claims management company, agreed with Canada Lifes 
calculations. But she said her future loss payment should be paid as a cash amount and 
not by means of a top up to her annuity. She referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) Finalised Guidance (FG17/9) which she said applied to complaints about FSAVCs. 
She said the guidance stated that where it wasnt possible to pay the redress by 
augmentation the redress should be paid in the form of a lump sum. Mrs L said it wasnt 
possible to augment her FSAVC because it had already vested. She also referred to tax 
issues arising from Canada Lifes proposal to top up her annuity. Canada Life didnt change 
its view. Mrs L referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He thought Canada Lifes offer was fair. It 
sought to put Mrs L back into the position she wouldve been in had she taken the AVC with 
her employer. He thought the lump sum for past losses was fair. In relation to future losses 
our investigator said Mrs L had chosen an annuity as the method to receive income from 
her FSAVC. So, by arranging for future losses to also be paid as an annuity she was being 
put into the position she wouldve been in had she taken her employers AVC.
Mrs L didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Canada Life has acknowledged that it didnt provide suitable advice to Mrs L in 
1993. Its calculated the amount of redress it thinks is owed. Mrs L hasnt disputed 
the methodology or the assumptions used to carry out the calculations. She accepts 
that she should be paid £6,704.15 for past loss. But she thinks the future loss 
amount of £37,742.82 should be paid to her as a lump sum after deduction of tax. 
So, the crux of this complaint is about how Mrs L should be compensated for her 
future loss.
When a complaint is referred to our service we reach decisions based on what we 
consider to be fair and reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the 
individual complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, we take 
account of laws, regulations, regulatory guidance, rules and standards, codes of 
practice and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
So, when reaching this decision I have taken account of all these matters. The 
objective of redress is to put the complainant back into the position they wouldve 
been in had the unsuitable advice not been given.
Having considered everything here, Ive provisionally decided that I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect Canada Life to compensate Mrs L for her future loss by means 
of a cash lump sum rather than a top-up to her existing annuity. Ill explain why:
The assumptions Canada Life has used in its calculations:
When thinking about Mrs Ls complaint, Im mindful that the unsuitable advice about 
which shes complained related to taking out the FSAVC. Mrs L doesnt appear to 
have sought or received any advice when she decided to vest the FSAVC and take 
out the single life annuity in 2003.
Its important to note that, when assessing Mrs Ls losses, Canada Life hasnt 
assumed Mrs L wouldve contributed to her employers AVC and then vested those 
benefits in the same way as she vested the FSAVC. Instead its assumption is that 
she would have added years to her employers scheme and then taken her benefits 
at age 60.
On that basis Canada Life assessed her past loss by deducting the amount Mrs L 
has been paid under her single life annuity (which shed brought into payment in 
October 2003) from what she wouldve received from her employers pension 
scheme had she instead purchased 3 years and 26 days added years and taken her benefits at age 60 (May 2011). Mrs L hasnt disputed the assumption used to 
calculate her past loss.
When considering future loss, Canada Life adopted the same approach. It looked at 
how much she wouldve received (based on various assumptions) from her 
employers pension scheme had she purchased added years and then deducted the 
amount she will receive from her single life annuity with Canada Life. It says the 
future gross loss is £37,742.82. Mrs L hasnt disputed that amount.
The offer to top-up Mrs Ls annuity
Canada Life says Mrs Ls future gross loss equates to a top up of her existing 
annuity of £1,891.64 per annum.
At the outset, Id point out that I dont think Canada Lifes proposal to compensate 
Mrs L for her future loss by way of topping up her annuity is inherently unfair  
because the top up of her annuity would make up the difference between what she 
is receiving by way of pension payments from her employers scheme and what she 
wouldve received had she purchased additional years in her employers scheme.
So, Ive considered if theres any valid reason why Canada Life should instead be 
required to compensate Mrs L, for future loss, by way of a cash lump sum.
Mrs L says that if shed acquired added years in her employers scheme, she 
wouldve been entitled to a spouses pension in the event that she pre-deceased her 
spouse. She says that the offer to top up her annuity on a single life basis wont put 
her in the same position as she wouldve been in had she not received the 
unsuitable advice. Ive also noted that under Mrs Ls employers scheme her 
benefits were subject to increase after they came into payment at age 60. The 
single life annuity is non-increasing.
Canada Life says it wouldnt be fair to top up her annuity on the basis of joint lives 
because a single life annuity cost Mrs L less and provided her with more income 
than a joint life annuity.
Ive thought about what Canada Life has said.
As mentioned above, the purpose of compensation is to put Mrs L back in the 
position she wouldve been in had she not been given the unsuitable advice. And as 
set out above, Canada Life has assumed Mrs L wouldve added years to her 
employers pension. But, if shed done that she wouldnt be in receipt of a single life 
annuity. Instead she would be receiving the benefits for added years offered by her 
former employer under its pension scheme. And, those benefits would be subject to 
increases and would include spousal benefits.
I asked Canada Life to comment on whether it could top up the single life annuity to 
better match her employers scheme and what the tax implications would be. It said 
the only way it could do this would be by amending the existing policy to show a 
second coverage. It could then pay any backdated payments by way of a bulk 
payment but Canada Life said it wasnt sure how its proposed course of action would impact Mrs L from a taxation perspective. So, theres the possibility that Mrs L 
may end up having to pay more tax than might otherwise have been the case.
Whilst, as Ive mentioned above, Canada Lifes approach here would ordinarily be 
considered as fair and reasonable, Im not persuaded that Mrs L should be placed in 
the position where theres more than a remote possibility that she has to either pay 
additional tax or take specialist tax advice to help her manage a taxation matter that 
would not otherwise have arisen. I think that would be unfair  even if any overpaid 
tax could ultimately be refunded.
Having considered everything here. Ive decided its fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances, that Canada Life should pay the compensation for both past losses 
and future losses as a lump sum, after deducting a notional amount for income tax 
that Mrs L would always have been liable to pay on her pension income.
Putting things right
In order to put Mrs L, as far as possible, back into the position she would have been 
in, but for the unsuitable advice, Ive provisionally decided that Canada Life should 
take the following actions:
1. In response to this provisional decision, Canada Life should update its redress 
calculations, using the same assumptions and methodology. Those calculations 
were set out in the attachment to its final response letter dated 23 November 2020 
and assessed Mrs Ls loss as at 1 October 2020. The calculations should be 
updated to the current date.
2. Canada Life should then pay Mrs L the updated amounts for past losses and any 
future losses as a cash lump sum.
3. Mrs Ls pension would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a 
fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs L wont be able to reclaim 
any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
4. My understanding is that Canada Life accounted for income tax in its original 
calculation for past losses and that Mrs L has accepted Canada Lifes approach. For 
future losses (which are now being compensated for in a different way), I consider it 
fair and reasonable to assume 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mrs Ls income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
5. Interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple interest if the compensation amount is not paid within 90 days of the date of 
my final decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Canada Life Limited. I intend to require it to pay compensation in 
line with what Ive set out above.Canada Life responded to my provisional decision. It said it accepted my determination. It 
also provided its updated calculations which were shared with Mrs L. Canada Life said it 
had brought the calculations up to date for past payments and valuation for future loss was 
calculated using the current financial assumptions.
Mrs L also responded to my provisional decision. She agreed with the provisional decision 
but she challenged the updated calculations provided by Canada Life. She accepted its 
updated calculations for her past loss  but not how it had calculated her future loss. She 
said it was clear shed been disadvantaged financially because Canada Life had used 
current financial assumptions to calculate future loss. Whilst she accepted that the pension 
and annuity landscape was in a different place than when the original calculations had 
been completed, she thought she should receive compensation to the level which was 
appropriate at the time shed raised her complaint.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. It is the case that when updating 
its redress calculations to assess Mrs Ls future loss, Canada Life, in response to my 
provisional decision, used current financial assumptions. Mrs L thinks it shouldve used the 
same financial assumptions as it used when it calculated her future financial loss in 2020. 
She says that would also have been in line with what my provisional decision said.
Ive thought about what Mrs L has said here. As stated in my provisional decision, our 
approach is to try to put Mrs L back into the position she wouldve been in had Canada Life 
not given her unsuitable advice. Thats entirely in keeping with the approach taken by our 
service and it also means that a consumer should not end up being over or under 
compensated.
In these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for Canada Life to update its 
assumptions (such as financial assumptions) so as to put Mrs L as close as possible into the 
position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice shed received. To do otherwise 
would result in Mrs L receiving the wrong amount of compensation. In this case, it would 
appear that Mrs L would be over-compensated if Canada Life didnt update its assumptions 
because the cost of putting things right for Mrs L appears to have fallen since Canada 
Lifes initial calculations. 
In my provisional decision, I said that Canada Life should update its calculations using the 
same methodology and assumptions. But for the reasons set out above and in order to 
provide greater clarity about what I require Canada Life to do here, I will remove the words 
and assumptions from this, my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Canada Life Limited. Canada Life 
Limited must now, as far as possible, put Mrs L back in the position she should have been in 
but for its mistake.
I now require it to take the following actions:1. Canada Life Limited should update its redress calculations, using the same 
methodology. Those calculations were set out in the attachment to its final response 
letter dated 23 November 2020 and assessed Mrs Ls loss as at 1 October 2020. 
The calculations should be updated to the date of my final decision.
2. Canada Life Limited should then pay Mrs L the updated amounts for past losses 
and any future losses as a cash lump sum.
3. Mrs Ls pension would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a 
fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs L wont be able to reclaim 
any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
4. My understanding is that Canada Life Limited accounted for income tax in its 
original calculation for past losses and that Mrs L has accepted Canada Life 
Limiteds approach. For future losses (which are now being compensated for in a 
different way), I consider it fair and reasonable to assume 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Ls income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
5. Interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision if the compensation amount is not paid 
within 90 days of the date of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman