DRN-3082577
The complaint
Mr B complains Succession Wealth Management Ltd (Succession) delayed the encashment 
of his Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) which caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B holds a SIPP with Succession and is advised by an independent financial adviser (IFA).
On 25 February 2021, Mr B met with his IFA and decided to encash his SIPP, the proceeds 
of which he instructed should be paid in cash, half in the current tax year and half in the 
following tax year.
On 26 February 2021, Mr B sent written instructions to Succession to carry out the trade.
The trades were actually carried out on 16 March 2021. During the period between the first 
set of instructions and the actual trade, the market had fallen. Mr B says had the trade not 
been delayed his SIPP value would have been higher and he asks to be compensated for 
the loss.
In its final response dated 22 June 2020, Succession didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said 
its business procedures for full encashment require a recommendation report which is then 
approved by its compliance team prior to the trade being accepted. In this case, the 
recommendation report was dated the 10 March 2020 and approved on 13 March 2020. The 
trade was placed on 16 March 2020 which is well within its Service Level Agreement (SLA) 
of 15 days. As such it found all procedures had been complied with and the wasnt 
responsible for any delays.
Dissatisfied, Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B, he issued his view and also found that 
Succession had followed its procedures correctly and he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed. He felt Succession should have been able to process the trade sooner due 
to the favourable market conditions and he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and Succession. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked carefully at the communication between Succession and Mr Bs IFA and 
Succession has provided some background to its processes and procedures which has 
helped to establish where there may have been confusion in respect of how Succession 
operate.
I understand that the original firm with whom Mr B held his SIPP had been acquired by 
Succession. Before the acquisition the previous firm accepted instructions from advisers on 
behalf of their clients to switch or encash funds on an execution only basis. But this process 
changed after Succession acquired the firm.
For all pension withdrawals, Succession required a recommendation report and for this to be 
approved before a trade could take place. It also set out clear SLAs about the time that 
should be allowed for the production of the recommendation report and the approval. It 
allows 15 working days from receiving an instruction to produce the report and a further two 
days after approval to place the trade. The timescales are reasonable and within acceptable 
industry guidelines and looking at the chain of events between 26 February and 16 March 
2020, it met the requirements of its own policies and procedures.
The markets can go up and down between instruction and trade and unfortunately in this 
case, the markets fell. But I cant hold Succession responsible for that. I dont find it caused 
any unnecessary delay and so whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, I dont uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman