DRN-2981614
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has failed to explain, to his 
satisfaction, its various investment charging structures.
What happened
This complaint relates specifically to two polices Mr H holds with Aviva, which for ease I will 
refer to as policy 1 and policy 2.
In April 2020 Mr H asked Aviva:
why the total charges under policy 1 were more than double the total charges under 
policy 2
why was he being charged a fund expenses charge under policy 1 but no additional 
expenses charge under policy 2
what do the fund expenses (under policy 1) comprise?
In the same month Aviva responded to Mr H to say that:
the two policies in question are different products, taken up at different times, with 
different charging structures
all charges have been levied in line with the policy terms and conditions, terms and 
conditions Mr H agreed to be bound by
the fund expenses charge under policy 1 covers other charges levied by the fund 
managers such as auditor, trustee and valuer fees
Unhappy with Avivas response to his complaint, Mr H referred it to our service for 
investigation.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded Aviva had done 
nothing wrong and that it had provided Mr H with an adequate response to his three 
questions.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive to the same conclusion as the investigator and for the 
same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
I would also like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Although I accept that Mr H might be unhappy with Avivas response to his complaint, Im 
satisfied that it was both adequate and appropriate. That is, Mr Hs two polices are in respect 
of two different products and subject to different charging structures and that the fund 
expense charge under policy 1 is in respect of other charges levied by the fund managers 
such as auditor, trustee and valuer fees. 
Im also satisfied, having had regard to the various documents Aviva has provided our 
service, that the charges levied across both polices are in line with what, everything else 
being equal, Aviva is able and entitled to charge.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman