The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with Lloyds and were sold the PPI in connection with this 
mortgage in 2002.
Although the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mr J. It would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr J was off work sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and        
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
For the sake of clarity, I should add that this decision relates only to the complaint about PPI.  
I note Mr and Mrs J have also complained about a life policy sold to them. However, this 
complaint does not deal with this life policy. If Mr and Mrs J wish to pursue their complaint 
about the life policy then they should take this up with the business responsible for selling 
them that policy in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr J was eligible for the policy. Based on Mr Js age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he would have been eligible 
for the policy.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Lloyds say they did this. Mr and Mrs J say 
they werent given a choice about taking insurance and were told they had to take it out. 
They say they were bullied into taking it out. Its not clear whether what they say relates to 
PPI or the life insurance policy they also want to complaint about. But they have also more 
recently told us that they didnt know they had been sold PPI. 
DRN-1769122I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mr and Mrs J and Lloyds have told us and looked to the documents from the time 
of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. This had a section for PPI 
and presented Mr and Mrs J with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. Mr and Mrs 
J chose the option to take PPI and also completed a separate PPI application form as well 
as a separate direct debit mandate. Mr J questions why PPI did not appear on the mortgage 
agreements. However, I wouldnt expect it do so given that it appears PPI wasnt a condition 
of getting the mortgage.
So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs J have told us, I think its more likely that the PPI was 
presented as optional and it was only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs J chose to 
take it out.
I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs J were pressured into taking 
PPI. For one thing (as already mentioned) its unclear whether they are referring to the sale 
of PPI when they say they were bullied into taking insurance out or whether this relates to 
their complaint about the life policy (for which they were paying £14.95 per month). If it 
relates to the sale of the PPI then this is inconsistent with what Mr J has told us after about 
not knowing they had been sold PPI.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs J to take PPI out. This means they shouldve taken 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. Mr and Mr J say that PPI wasnt 
suitable for them as they had sufficient existing repayment means. I dont know whether 
Lloyds did take all the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs 
Js circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
Mr J doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms common in PPI policies which 
would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
Although Mr J has told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and would have been particularly useful 
when Mr Js sick pay reduced to half. The policy would also have paid out if Mr J lost 
his job. I appreciate Mr and Mrs J say they had some savings, but these could have 
been used for essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage 
repayments. And the PPI would have meant they didnt have to resort to selling their 
home or trying to release equity.
Mr and Mrs J have also told us about their other life policy, pension and death in 
service benefit. But these did not pay out in the circumstances that the PPI would have 
paid out. This may be more relevant to their complaint about the life insurance policy 
but I make no finding as to that as Im not considering that complaint for the purposes 
of this decision.
Mr and Mrs J could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially 
if they no longer needed or wanted it.
I havent seen any evidence to conclude that this policy was unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs J at the time of the sale. As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not to take it out, in 
particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont think Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs J all of the information as they should have. But this in itself 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would 
have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them. 
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs J this PPI policy. Which means Lloyds dont have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50%
of the PPI premium) - so they should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds have paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC dont have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC do have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit share 
they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman