DRN-2214442
The complaint
Miss B complains Nationwide Building Society made mistakes when she applied to open an 
account with them.
What happened
Miss B brought her complaint as she was unhappy with the response from Nationwide.   
Initially they didnt uphold her complaint but in a later Final Response Letters (FRLs) 
Nationwide accepted they had made mistakes when considering her soft application for a 
new account, offered apologies and paid £75 compensation. Nationwide later told her the 
overdraft limit theyd set for new account had nothing to do with the mistakes theyd made on 
the soft application but were linked to affordability and they refused to increase Miss Bs 
overdraft limit to the higher amount shed requested. 
But Nationwide were willing to consider the charges Miss B had incurred on her overdraft 
with her existing bank but only in proportion to the lower amount of the overdraft theyd 
agreed to give her. Nationwide invited Miss B to send in further information so they could 
consider this but also said further compensation wasnt guaranteed. At the same time 
Nationwide further credited Miss Bs account with a further £25 as an apology for previous 
responses being unclear.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought, although Nationwide had made 
mistakes, they had already responded fairly.
Miss B told us she was extremely disappointed with the view. She repeated that had it not 
been for the first error she could have moved her overdraft sooner and incurred less interest 
or taken an alternative step of transferring her overdraft to a 0% credit card. She said there 
were two mistakes, both on her initial application and, then, when Nationwide failed to 
investigate the complaint. So, it took two months to get a full final response. As a result of 
the interest shed paid in this time the compensation had been eroded by the interest 
charges and the compensation shed actually received was not enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what hes already told Miss 
B. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with his conclusions.
Everyone accepts Nationwide made mistakes when initially dealing with Miss Bs application 
and this wasnt picked up when Nationwide first responded to her concerns. I accept thats 
been a source of frustration to Miss B and inconvenient for her. But it isnt my role to punish 
businesses for making mistakes; its my role to put consumers back into the position that 
they shouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt been made.  By later reconsidering and 
granting the application, apologising and paying £100 compensation I think Nationwide have 
done that.
I know Miss B thinks her application shouldve been granted with a much higher overdraft 
limit. But Im afraid its a commercial decision for banks as to who they lend to and how 
much they lend. We wont normally interfere in that. And here, the information Nationwide 
have sent, satisfies me their decision to set the overdraft limit wasnt based on the incorrect 
information about the direct debits, but rather, after assessment by their underwriting team, 
based on affordability.
As far as I can see, Nationwides offer to consider further information about charges 
incurred, as a result of the delay in the application, is still open to Miss B to accept. Given 
how strongly Miss B feels about whats happened she may want to pursue the matter further 
through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her 
dispute with Nationwide informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman