DRN-4074513
The complaint
Mr K complains Allied Dunbar, now part of Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich), incorrectly advised 
him to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Mr K says 
that he should have been advised to make additional contributions to his employers 
scheme.
Mr K now wants Zurich to compensate him for the advice he believes was unsuitable.
What happened
In 1994 Mr K, who was employed by the NHS at the time, met with an adviser from Zurich to 
discuss his retirement planning needs. The adviser completed a fact-find (FF) questionnaire 
with him, that he signed on 26 April 1994. The adviser noted Mr Ks objective was to retire 
early as he didnt wish to work until age 60. In addition, it stated Mr K wished to benefit from 
the tax breaks of a pension. Mr K, who was then 26 years old, explained to the adviser he 
wanted to retire at age 50.
As Mr K was working for the NHS, he was a member of their defined benefit (DB) pension 
scheme that had a normal retirement age of 60. The Zurich adviser recommended Mr K take 
out an FSAVC plan setting the target retirement age to 50 to coincide with Mr Ks desire to 
retire from work early.
The FSAVC plan was backdated to start on 1 April 1994 with an indexed premium of £53.33 
gross per month. In the years that followed, Mr K asked Zurich to increase the monthly 
premium beyond the normal index linking. The regular payments into the plan ceased in May 
2018, by which point, Mr K was paying £417.22 per month. Its at that stage that Mr K had 
reached his desired retirement age of 50. As Mr K had been a member of the NHS scheme 
prior to A-day, he was able to draw his main DB scheme benefits early. 
In April 2022, Mr K complained to Zurich. He told them he was unhappy that hed been 
advised to arrange the FSAVC instead of the NHS AVC. He also said, in summary:
Given he was anticipating being with the NHS for the foreseeable future at the time, it 
wouldve made more sense to utilise the in-house AVC scheme.
He felt the higher charges of the FSAVC (compared to the NHS option) werent made 
clear to him.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Zurich explained that based on the evidence theyd seen, 
they felt the FSAVC was appropriate for his needs. They also said, in summary, 
That it was their understanding, based on his circumstances at the time, his contributions 
into the in-house AVC wouldve been capped at 2%. So, as Mr K wanted to pay in 3.53% 
of his gross earnings, the NHS AVC wouldnt have been suitable for his needs.
They conceded they had no evidence that Mr K was advised to first consider contributing 
to the in-house AVC scheme, but they said that didnt make the FSAVC unsuitable.
Zurich felt that even if Mr K had been provided with the information about the NHS AVC 
scheme, he wouldnt have joined anyway.
Mr K was unhappy with Zurichs response. He complained to this service setting out the 
same concerns, namely that he didnt think the FSAVC was appropriate given the higher 
charges compared to the in-house NHS AVC scheme. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that Zurich 
hadnt treated Mr K fairly. He also said, in summary:
That hed seen no evidence that Zurich had highlighted the other pension funding 
options that were available to Mr K, specifically the in-house AVCs.
Even though the adviser was tied to Zurich, he should have known there were other in-
house options and despite there not being a requirement to provide cost comparisons, 
the adviser was obligated to sign-post those to Mr K.
Zurich however, disagreed with our investigators findings. They maintained their view the 
FSAVC was the right option for Mr K. In summary, they felt given Mr K wished to contribute 
in excess of what he was allowed to pay into the NHS AVC scheme, the only suitable option 
for him was an FSAVC.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Zurich did not present any new 
arguments hed not already considered or responded to already.
Zurich asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
wasnt planning to uphold Mr Ks complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I 
made in full below.
My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
Ive first considered what regulations were in place at the time the FSAVC was set up. 
Looking back to 1988, the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation, LAUTRO, 
stated that company representatives should: 
Have regards to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational pension scheme. 
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question. 
So, Zurichs adviser should have: 
Pointed out that AVCs were available. 
Explained that AVCs offered the potential to provide better value for money/ lower charges than a FSAVC.
Signposted/ recommended the consumer explore those options with their employer.
This was particularly important to satisfy the requirement to have regards to the consumers 
financial position generally, as Mr K should have been made aware about a lower cost 
alternative which would have had a direct effect on his financial position. In addition, whilst 
advisers at the time werent expected to know the specifics of those AVCs, they would be 
expected to know the in-house AVC was, more likely than not, going to be cheaper for Mr K 
than the FSAVC. Thats the case even when advisers, such as Mr Ks in this instance, were 
tied to a particular company and could only advise on the products of one provider. So, 
despite being unable to recommend Mr K take out the in-house AVC scheme, he should still 
have signposted that as an alternate option.
Taking account of the rules at the time, Ive then gone on to consider the suitability of 
Zurichs advice. Mr K was 26 when he met with Zurichs adviser and had been a member of 
the NHS pension scheme for two years and eight months. So, even if he planned to retire at 
age 50, he wouldnt been able to achieve the maximum permissible pension. I think it was 
appropriate for Zurich to discuss how to make up that potential shortfall with Mr K, and Im 
mindful of the regulations which wouldn't allow company representatives to make 
recommendations from outside their own range of products. 
As Zurich were required to make Mr K aware of AVCs and to discuss the difference in costs, 
Ive looked carefully at the records Zurich have shared with this service. Given the advice 
took place in 1994, there wasnt a requirement at that time to provide the consumer with a 
suitability letter setting out the reasons for the recommendation. However, Zurich did 
complete a fact find with Mr K at the time. The fact find and wider file are silent on whether a 
discussion took place with Mr K about the cheaper inhouse AVC option. So, I dont think I 
can safely say the company representative satisfied the regulations in place at the time. 
However, that doesnt necessarily mean the complaint should be upheld.
Zurich have stated its their understanding that given the size of Mr Ks initial contribution into 
the FSAVC, he wouldnt have been able to make that level of payment into the NHS AVC. 
Thats because the level of premium Mr K wanted to make, wouldve exceeded his AVC 
limits at the time. Zurich have provided this service with a table that shows based on the 
level of Mr Ks existing length of NHS scheme membership and age at the time, he wouldve 
been limited to contributing 2% of his salary into the in house AVC. The records show Mr K 
wanted to contribute 3.5% of his salary. In addition, within 10 months of starting the FSAVC, 
Mr K increased his monthly premium to 8% of his salary. Again, this was more than the 
allowable in-house level (which by this point was still capped at 2%). In the years that 
followed, Mr K regularly incremented his premium until it reached £417 per month. So, to 
achieve his objective of early retirement, Mr K wouldve been limited to two options, either 
splitting his premium between the AVC with the balance going to the FSAVC or, placing the 
full premium into the FSAVC.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ks circumstances at the time of his original meeting with 
Zurich. He wanted to retire early and had a goal of finishing work at age 50. He had a good 
salary and reasonable expectations of earning large increases in the years that followed. Ive 
carefully considered whats most likely to have happened if Zurich had correctly signposted 
the in-house AVC option. And specifically, whether that wouldve influenced Mr Ks decision 
to invest part of his monthly premium into the cheaper NHS AVC option and the balance into 
the Zurich FSAVC. 
I think given the significant size of the monthly premiums Mr K was paying and the cap the 
NHS had on the scheme, that wouldve limited the overall benefit Mr K wouldve seen from the lower charges on the NHS AVC element of his monies. Thats because the larger portion 
of his savings wouldve had to have been invested in the FSAVC. So, I dont think the AVC 
scheme wouldve been that attractive to Mr K. Also, had a portion of his monies been 
invested in the AVC scheme, the lower costs he wouldve benefited from on that part of his 
money wouldve been diluted because the FSAVC still had a fixed cost levied. Therefore, 
that wouldve limited the benefit of the FSAVC so, by diverting all the full premium to the 
FSAVC, wouldve limited the impact of that charge.
In addition, Ive also thought about Mr Ks additional objective that Zurichs adviser noted at 
the time of their meeting in 1994; that Mr K wished to benefit from the tax breaks of a 
pension. On an AVC, higher rate taxpayers obtain all the tax relief on contributions through 
their payslip. But with FSAVCs, a higher rate taxpayer would have received basic rate tax 
relief through the FSAVC provider and reclaimed the additional tax at the end of the tax year. 
So, on the face of it, AVCs are slightly more tax efficient. But, if the premiums were split 
between the two schemes, Mr K would have to claim that tax relief separately anyway so 
again, the small tax benefit of the AVC over the FSAVC is diluted.
So I think on balance even if Zurich had made Mr K aware of the AVC scheme, he wouldve 
chosen to reject that option over the choice of being able to maximise his contributions into 
the one scheme and keep his affairs simpler.
I should note that in his complaint to Zurich and subsequently, this service, Mr K explained 
hed been disadvantaged by Zurich as he understood the NHS provided matched 
contributions to their in-house scheme. However, as our investigator has already pointed 
out, thats not the case. The benefit of the NHS AVC scheme is the lack of commission/ 
lower charging structure they offer members compared to an external FSAVC.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision Mr K contacted this service and explained he didnt 
agree with the provisional decision. He said that when he arranged to take out the Zurich 
pension, had the better value NHS AVC scheme been highlighted, he wouldve most 
certainly chosen that option. He also said, in summary:
That he knew hed have some large expenses and a potentially reduced household 
income on the horizon at the time of the original advice. So, Mr K felt the statement that 
he had 'reasonable expectations of earning large increases in the years that followed' 
was incorrect and didnt reflect his own expectations at that time regarding income or 
that of the wider household finances in the coming years. 
He didnt believe the option to make larger contributions to an FSAVC would have been 
attractive to him at the time of choosing an additional pension due to the financial 
position he was in at the time. Mr K said when he took the FSAVC out, he was going to 
be taking on borrowing to purchase a share in a business so, was planning on using his 
resources for other means. He said he didnt envisage increasing his pension 
contributions.
Mr K said it was misleading to state that he regularly incremented his FSAVC premium. 
He explained that he was contacted and encouraged by Zurichs adviser to increase his 
contributions without any proper assessment of his financial situation.
He explained that had he been advised in accordance with the regulations, he would 
have made all his contributions into the NHS scheme according to the allowable 
contribution levels and would not have incurred the additional fees of the FSAVC. Mr K 
explained that he would not have split his contributions between that and the FSAVC.Mr K said he thought the contribution levels he was making to the FSAVC at the time 
differed to that noted in both Zurichs complaint resolution letter and the provisional 
decision.
Zurich responded to the provisional decision by explaining they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ks subsequent submissions. And, having reviewed the file 
again, I fail to be persuaded by his further arguments. Ill explain why.
In circumstances where the records are limited and some considerable time has elapsed 
since the original advice, in reaching my decision I have to work on the principle that I have 
to decide what I think Mr K on balance would have done. So, Ive again thought about Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time of his original meeting with Zurich. Whats in no doubt is that he 
wanted to retire early and had a concrete goal of finishing work at age 50. And he did just 
that once he reached his 50th birthday. In addition, given his role at the time, he had a good 
salary and not unreasonable expectations of earning large increases in the years that 
followed. 
But, having considered my provisional decision, Mr K didnt agree that he had 'reasonable 
expectations of earning large increases in the years that followed'. He said it was incorrect 
and didnt reflect his own expectations at that time regarding income or that of his wider 
household finances in the coming years. However, Im not convinced by Mr Ks contention 
on this point. Given the precise nature of Mr Ks job, its widely known that individuals in that 
occupation whilst starting on a good salary, benefit from significant pay increases as the 
years pass and their experience builds up. And, I well suspect Mr K knew that his earnings 
would increase significantly. Particularly given the records confirm he was in the process of 
buying a share in a very robust business that would almost certainly yield significant 
earnings for him. I think it unlikely anyone would purchase a share of business without fully 
understanding what their potential returns would likely be. Mr K did enjoy significant earnings 
growth from year to year as his experience in his profession grew. Allied to that, he was able 
to enjoy strong job security, so I also suspect he had little concern about the ongoing 
affordability of those premiums falling outside of his budget.
Mr K said he didnt envisage increasing his pension contributions. Thats because at the time 
he took out the FSAVC, he was planning on purchasing a share of a business, so his 
finances wouldve been strained. Whilst I accept Mr Ks finances wouldve been stretched 
initially, the premiums were maintained for 24 years and, he also significantly incremented 
them over that time to £417 per month, so theres no indication they were unaffordable.
In his response to the provisional decision, Mr K questioned the view that he wasnt able to 
utilise the in-house AVC as the contribution he wanted to make, exceeded the limits the 
scheme allowed at the time. Whilst Mr Ks initial contribution was only £40 net, tax relief 
would be added and so £53.33 gross per month was being saved to that plan. This was 
3.53% of his base salary at the time or 2.65% if his bonus, commissions etc was counted in. 
Only ten months later that was increased to £93.33 gross per month (which is £70 net per 
month). And then in May 1996 it was increased again to £140 gross per month (£105 net per 
month). So, in only 14 months, Mr Ks premium had increased by 163% and by 2001 it had 
reached £256.41 per month, (an increase of 380% over the original premium in seven years). Mr K provided his original policy schedule to this service which included a section 
that stated: amount of personal contributions to all schemes of current employer, expressed 
as a percentage of your total annual remuneration and that showed he was contributing 
4.5% of his salary to the NHS scheme. Mr K explained that Zurichs complaint resolution 
letter noted that he was contributing 6% of earnings to the NHS scheme and therefore that 
suggested that his proposed contribution was allowable. However, that 6% relates to Mr Ks 
contribution to his main NHS scheme. The important element though, is how much the 
scheme allowed him to contribute into the AVC. Based on the level of Mr Ks existing length 
of NHS scheme membership and age at the time, he wouldve been limited to contributing 
2% of his gross earnings into the in house AVC. But, as Ive already explained above, Mr K 
wanted to contribute 3.5% of his salary. In addition, within 10 months of starting the FSAVC, 
Mr K increased his monthly premium and did so again a year after that. Again, this was more 
than the allowable in-house level (which by this point was still capped at 2%). So, that 
demonstrated that Mr K was unable to make the level of contributions he wished into the 
AVC.
I think the ability to pay more into the FSAVC compared to the AVC would likely have 
sounded attractive to Mr K. Thats because by planning to retire 10 years early, he wouldve 
suffered a large downward adjustment to the income he would receive from his main NHS 
final salary scheme (as that pension would be in payment for longer than had he taken it at 
age 60). As such, I think it more likely than not he wouldve wanted to bridge that gap with as 
large a regular contribution as his budget allowed.
Allied to this, Mr K said it was misleading to state that he regularly incremented his FSAVC 
premium. He explained that he was contacted and encouraged by Zurichs adviser to 
increase his contributions without any proper assessment of his financial situation. In 1994, 
1995 and 1996, Zurich completed a fact-find document with Mr K that captured his full 
personal and financial circumstances at the time. Each of those documents were signed by 
Mr K and theyre all consistent about what his primary objective was  to retire from his 
profession at age 50. So, whilst it may have been Zurich who regularly contacted him to 
review his ongoing premium, it was prudent to encourage Mr K to increase contributions 
where affordable, to reach his retirement goals. I think it more likely than not, he was keen to 
fund his additional provision to enable that objective to become a reality and, to a higher 
level than the NHS AVC would have allowed him to do. And, as weve seen, he did just that 
and retired from work when he planned to.
Mr K explained that had he known about it, he would have just gone into the NHS AVC 
scheme and not split his contributions between that and the FSAVC. But, whilst Mr K did pay 
higher charges in the FSAVC, this would likely have been outweighed by the much higher 
contributions he was able to make. So, even if Mr K had invested solely in the NHS AVC 
scheme, his retirement provision would have more likely than not been lower overall if he 
had not taken the FSAVC. Such an approach wouldve meant his plans to retire from work 
10 years early at age 50 wouldve been less likely.
Having considered Mr Ks additional comments I do not uphold the complaint for the same 
reasons Ive already set out above.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and as such, do not require Zurich Assurance Ltd to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman