DRN-3079233
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc treated it unfairly 
by not allowing it to exceed its overdraft facility and delaying its application for a Bounce 
Back Loan.
The complaint is brought on Bs behalf by one of its directors, Mr R.
What happened
B was an existing customer of Barclays and at the end of March 2020 it approached the 
bank for support due to the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on the business. B 
said it attempted to contact Barclays several times unsuccessfully. 
Towards the end of April, Barclays responded to B to explain the different options available. 
The bank also told B that the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme was due to launch in early 
May, and this may be a better finance option for B due to the flexibility it offered.
In early May, B queried with Barclays why it wasnt able to exceed its agreed overdraft limit. 
It said the bank had advertised there wouldnt be a limit on borrowing facilities due to the 
pandemic. It didnt receive a response. B attempted to apply for a BBL on the same day but 
was unable to complete its application due to an online system issue.
Barclays updated B by text over the next few days to explain that due to the recent launch it 
was experiencing issues. However, this was updated on 14 May and B was able to apply 
and received the loan shortly after.
B complained that it hadnt been able to exceed its overdraft limit and that its BBL application 
had been delayed. It said the banks actions had a detrimental effect on the business.
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. The bank apologised and offered B £125 
compensation for not responding more quickly to a message B had sent. However, Barclays 
said it had been dealing with a high volume of enquires for support due to the pandemic and 
when the bank had spoken to B, it had correctly advised the company that a BBL was the 
most suitable option. 
Barclays also apologised for the issues B experienced when trying to apply for a BBL - but 
said this was due to high volumes it was experiencing. But the bank said it didnt advertise 
customers could exceed their borrowing facilities  only that interest and fees wouldnt be 
payable if limits were exceeded. B didnt think the compensation was enough and asked this 
service to look into its complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt think 
Barclays advertised that customers could exceed their agreed limits as this would go against 
the account terms and conditions. He also didnt think the delays B had experienced were 
unreasonable given the unprecedented demand that Barclays was dealing with. 
B didnt agree. Mr R said Barclays actions had a negative impact on the business and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
B says Barclays advertised on the TV that it would allow its customers to exceed their facility 
limits due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, but the bank has said that it didnt. Its 
difficult for me to confirm this as I havent seen this myself, and neither party has shown 
evidence of what was advertised. 
However, on balance Im not persuaded thats the case. I say that because the bank has 
regulations it has to abide by as a lender, which includes completing a risk assessment for 
the facilities it offers. Should Barclays make the decision to waive all limits that were agreed 
with borrowers, it may be that the facilities are no longer appropriate or financially viable - 
and therefore it wont have met its regulatory obligations. 
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the account which says when Barclays 
reviews a payment request, the bank will make the payment if there is enough money from 
either credit balances or the arranged overdraft, if there is one in place. However, if there 
arent sufficient funds it wont make the payment  unless it is a guaranteed debit card 
payment. As I havent seen any evidence there were changes to the banks terms and 
conditions, I dont think it was unreasonable B wasnt able to exceed its overdraft limit. 
Barclays has told us that it did advertise that it would waive three months of account fees, 
overdraft fees and overdraft interest from 13 March 2020 to assist its customers. Ive seen 
copies of Bs statements and I can see these werent deducted as agreed by the bank. So I 
dont think B was treated unfairly.
Looking at the evidence provided by both parties, I can see that there was a delay of around 
four weeks in Barclays contacting B to discuss its borrowing options. However, the bank has 
explained this was due to the unprecedented demand from customers it was receiving. And I 
think this was reasonable due to the difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic. I have 
also seen that Barclays did try and keep B updated with regard to its options and called B to 
advise it that the BBL Scheme was launching and that it believed this was Bs best option. 
Mr R has told us B was inconvenienced by the delay in being able to apply for a BBL, and 
Ive seen that he tried to apply for a BBL several times but experienced system issues. Mr R 
also believes it was a delay of two months to receive the BBL, however it was only eight 
days from when the Scheme was launched until Bs application was submitted and 
approved. 
From the information B has provided, it also appears it wasnt actually able to begin the BBL 
application. So apart from the inconvenience of not being able to apply, Im not persuaded 
there was a significant impact on B here. I say that because Barclays explained it wasnt 
going to allow B to exceed its agreed overdraft limit, and the BBL application had already 
been submitted by that point, so B was in the process of getting the extra funding it required. 
The bank has acknowledged that it could have responded more quickly to one of Bs email 
enquiries and with the final response to Bs complaint - but it has apologised and offered 
£125 compensation. From the evidence Ive seen and given the difficult situation the bank 
was experiencing in supporting a higher volume of customers than normal, I think Barclays 
actions were reasonable. 
Mr R has told us he was also caused distress by Barclays actions. But this complaint has 
been brought on Bs behalf, so B is the eligible complainant. This means that I cant look at 
any distress or inconvenience caused to Mr R in a personal capacity. 
I recognise B will be disappointed with my decision as it believes Barclays should pay it a 
higher amount of compensation. But based on everything Ive seen I think the bank has 
done enough to put things right. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £125 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay B £125 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman