DRN-3269471
The complaint
Ms H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) refuses to refund money she 
lost as part of a scam.
 
What happened
Ms H received a cold call from a merchant Ill refer to as A. The caller explained that he 
worked as an adviser for A and could help her make a lot of money if she decided to trade 
with them. Ms H explained she was unemployed and was trying to save the money she had. 
But the adviser persuaded her that it would be better to invest than allowing her money to sit 
and earn little interest. The adviser explained he would show Ms H how to trade and she 
would be able to withdraw her money whenever she wanted.
 
Believing the adviser was genuine, Ms H agreed to open a trading account with A by 
depositing a small amount to start with. The adviser helped Ms A do this by remotely 
accessing her computer. Rather than paying A directly, Ms H was instructed to first purchase 
crypto with a company called X and then load the crypto onto her wallet with A. Ms A 
initially made payments via another banking provider but was soon persuaded to add more 
money using her Tesco Mastercard credit card (which shed recently opened). Ms H was 
shown significant profits and she agreed to deposit further larger amounts using a credit card 
account with another banking provider.
 
Ms H disputes four payments she made to X using her Tesco credit card totalling £3,193 
(plus transaction fees of £127.41). All the payments were made on 25 September 2019. 
Ms H realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was unable to withdraw her funds 
from her wallet with A and reported what had happened to Tesco.
 
Tesco concluded Ms H had no chargeback options or section 75 rights because she didnt 
pay A directly and instead purchased crypto via a legitimate crypto dealer (X). Unhappy with 
Tescos response, Ms H referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators concluded A had scammed Ms H. She also concluded that Tesco 
failed to give Ms H a meaningful warning when she called it to unblock a payment to X. Our 
investigator felt it would be fair for Tesco to refund Ms Hs losses. Ms H agreed with the 
outcome but Tesco didnt. It said in summary that:
The conclusions were reached with a huge benefit of hindsight, leading to an unfair 
outcome.
There is no evidence to support that A or X were known to be involved in scams as 
there are no regulator warnings about either of them.
Ms H was transacting with a legitimate and genuine crypto currency convertor, one 
she had used before and was very much wanting the payments to go through. Based 
on this conversation, it had no concerns. 
It has a duty to carry out customers instructions and by doing otherwise it would be 
failing to meet its basic and fundamental obligations as a credit card provider.
Most transactions to crypto currency converters are not later raised as scams and it 
is unfair to say Tesco should have acted differently in 2019 based on what was 
learned afterwards. 
The BSI code is not regulatory and doesnt obligate firms to warn customers of every 
potential scam. It is not regulated to give financial advice and the decision to go 
ahead with a purchase lies with the consumer. 
There was no indications that Ms H had fallen victim to a scam and even if it did say 
that scams exist in the crypto currency industry, this wouldnt have deterred Ms H 
from investing and had no concerns over making the payments.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Ms H has lost the money she invested. But the question I must 
consider here is the extent to which Tesco can be considered liable for her loss. I must also 
consider whether Tesco did all that it could have done when Ms H reported that she had 
been defrauded. In this particular case, I agree with our investigator that Tesco should 
refund her the amount she lost.
 
Tesco questions whether this was indeed a scam as there is no FCA warning about A or X. 
Ive seen that the FCA first published a note titled About the FCA Warning List in August 
2017. Underneath the title headed If the firm isnt on the Warning List, it said Even if a firm 
isnt on the Warning List, it might still be a scam. 
So whilst I can agree with Tesco that an FCA warning or another regulator warning about a 
merchant does hold significant weight in indicating a scam. The FCA itself has concluded the 
absence of a warning doesnt mean a firm isnt a scam. 
Because of this, its helpful to understand what credible sources say about cryptocurrency 
scams and how this compares to Ms Hs experience. 
The City of London police published a note on cryptocurrency scams in August 2018. It said 
amongst other things:
Fraudsters are cold calling victims and using social media platforms to advertise get 
rich quick investments in mining and trading in cryptocurrencies. Fraudsters will 
convince victims to sign up to cryptocurrency investment websites and to part with 
their personal details such as credit card details and driving licences to open a 
trading account. The victim will then make an initial minimum deposit, after which the 
fraudster will call them to persuade them to invest again in order to achieve a greater 
profit. 
 
In some cases, victims have realised that they have been defrauded, but only after 
the website has been deactivated and the suspects can no longer be contacted.
The FCA also published a note titled Cryptoasset investment scams in June 2018 where it 
noted:
Scam firms can manipulate software to distort prices and investment returns. They 
are also known to suddenly close consumers online accounts and refuse to transfer 
the funds to them or ask for more money before the funds can be transferred. Ive found Ms Hs testimony to be persuasive and its entirely consistent with the description 
of cryptocurrency scams by the credible sources Ive referenced. For example, she was cold 
called, promised large gains with the ability to easily access her funds. She invested with a 
smaller amount to start with and was encouraged to pay more after seeing significant gains 
through successful campaigns within a short space of time. And Ms H has provided proof of 
this in the form of screenshots of her trading account with A. When she tried to withdraw her 
funds (as she believed she could), she was met with silence and A has since disappeared 
and is no longer in operation. 
Ms H has also provided significant negative online customer reviews relating to A. Whilst this 
is circumstantial and not by itself proof of fraud, it does add weight to the overall picture that 
A was operating a scam as described by the FCA and the police above. So, I am satisfied 
based on all Ive seen that A scammed Ms H. 
As Im satisfied that Ms H was scammed, Ill now consider whether I think Tesco could have 
done anything to prevent it. 
It is common ground that Ms H authorised the payments she made in 2019, even though she 
was duped into making them by A as part of a sophisticated scam. She used her security 
credentials to make the payments online and, in broad terms, the starting position in law is 
that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it 
to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And under 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Ms H is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Tesco should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In the context of this scam, Ms H paid funds from her Tesco credit card account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, which she did with the assistance of As adviser who guided her 
over the phone and through remotely accessing her computer. The crypto was immediately 
moved onto her wallet with A with the advisers assistance. In this case, Ms Hs initial two 
payments to X failed, the third was declined by Tesco due to it being a high risk transaction. 
A fourth transaction attempt was processed successfully, though Tesco blocked Ms Hs 
credit card immediately after the payment was made. Ms H called Tesco to unblock the 
credit card on 25 September 2019 in order to make a payment to X. 
Tesco hasnt explained why it blocked the payments to X other than seeking to confirm the 
payments were genuine. But it had noted one of the payments as a high risk transaction. I 
think given Tescos clear concerns about payments being made to X (for whatever reason) it should have had a conversation with Ms H before processing any of them. I consider it was 
appropriate for Tesco to have taken a close look at the payment before processing it. 
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Ms H started making her investments using her Tesco credit card in September 2019, I 
think Tesco ought reasonably to have had a good enough understanding of how 
cryptocurrency scams work  including the fact that many consumers would first purchase 
crypto with a legitimate merchant before moving it on again to the fraudster. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Tesco shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent 
this type of fraud at the time Ms H was making her payments. In my view, Tesco did have 
such mechanisms and did indeed intervene in order to ask Ms H further questions about the 
payment to X on 25 September 2019. Tesco said it sent a text message to Ms H asking her 
to confirm the payments were genuine. It placed a security block on her account and only 
after Ms H spoke with it was the block removed. 
Ive listened to the call and Tesco asked Ms H what transaction she was trying to do. Ms H 
talked through her attempted payments and continuously referred to we when describing 
the payments she was trying to make. This ought to have been a concern. Tesco noted in 
the call that earlier payment attempts to X were blocked which Ms H acknowledged. 
Whilst the adviser looked into the payment for several minutes, he came back and the 
following interaction happened:
Adviser: Can I just check what is it this company does?
Ms H: Ive used it before. 
Adviser: What is it this company do?
Ms H: Well its like Bitcoins.and then I buy the Bitcoin and pay somebody elseits 
hard to explain really
Adviser: Are you comfortable with that company having your details
Ms H: Errm, yeah well theyve just got my email address mainly, as I said Ive used 
them before and there was no problem
Adviser: I assume you just found this company online
Ms H: No Im working with somebody who is helping me, as Ive said I used them 
before and there was no problem last time
The adviser went onto explain that the type of transaction Ms H was making wouldnt be 
covered by chargeback dispute rights if something were to go wrong and Ms H accepted 
this. 
I think Ms H volunteered information that ought to have been red flags to Tesco. She 
referenced we many times when discussing her payment attempts, explained someone was 
helping her and that she was purchasing Bitcoin and paying somebody else. Unfortunately 
(and not as Tesco suggest is with the benefit of hindsight) the caller did not appear to pick 
up on the warning signs. Whilst Tesco asked Ms H if she was comfortable with the company having her details and 
explained chargeback rights wouldnt be available to her. It didnt actually warn about 
common cryptocurrency scams that on the face of it appeared like Ms H was falling victim to. 
I appreciate Ms H explained shed dealt with the company before a number of times. But I 
dont think Tesco gave her reason to question why she would be sending her crypto to 
somebody else. 
Based on the answers Ms H gave during the phone call of 25 September 2019, I think Tesco 
ought to have had concerns that Ms H was at risk of falling victim to a scam. I think it 
couldve reasonably done more to prevent Ms H from making the payments to the 
scammers. I dont think Tesco needed to probe any further based on the information 
provided by Ms H to have given her a meaningful warning about common cryptocurrency 
scams. It could have explained the risks of not having control of your own wallet, being 
coached by someone else and that many scam companies use legitimate looking websites 
with fake software to make it seem like your earning large profits to encourage further 
deposits. Tesco could have also explained its own customer experiences that the same firms 
would often block customers from withdrawing their funds. To be clear, I dont think Tesco 
ought to have provided Ms H with financial advice but the FCA and its predecessor 
explained has already explained that a scam warning wouldnt constitute financial advice. So 
in these circumstances, I consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Tesco liable for 
failing to provide Ms H with a meaningful scam warning when it had grounds to do so.
I think a more meaningful warning would have stopped Ms H in her tracks, even though she 
had used A before, because the warning would have been reflective of her experiences with 
A. And whilst she hadnt yet attempted to withdraw her funds, I think she would have likely 
tried to before paying them anymore money.
 
Ms H believed that A was legitimate and her account manager gained her trust by explaining 
he would coach her through her investments. She had access to an online wallet and saw 
her investments performing. I dont think she could have reasonably known about the 
operation of this type of scam unless prompted by for instance, a financial professional like 
Tesco. I think the onus was on Tesco to inform Ms H of the risk that she would likely lose all 
of her money if she sent her cryptocurrency to somebody else.
Whilst the transaction fees were not paid to X directly and were instead charged by Tesco 
for Ms H using her card to pay X, I do not think these would have been incurred had Tesco 
provided a meaningful warning to Ms H. So these payments should also be refunded. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Refund all Ms Hs payments to X, this should include any associated transaction 
fees;
Refund interest and charges applied to Ms Hs Tesco credit card in respect of the 
payments to X. 
Pay 8% interest on any payments Ms Hs made towards her Tesco credit card in 
relation to the payments to X. If Tesco deducts tax in relation to the interest element 
of this award, it should provide Ms H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman