DRN-2451206
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Zurich Insurance PLCs (Zurich) handling of a claim he made under his 
buildings insurance policy. Any references to Zurich include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr A noticed water was entering the upstairs of his property. He contacted 
Zurich to log a claim. Zurich appointed a loss adjuster who arranged for the roof to be 
inspected. There were delays with this process and Mr A complained. Zurich responded to 
this complaint and instructed a second loss adjuster in November 2019. 
The loss adjuster said they were concerned about the quality of the roof, and suggested they 
needed to liaise with another company to determine if the claim should be declined for faulty 
workmanship. Zurich decided that the claim should be considered under the accidental 
damage clause of his policy. 
The second loss adjuster arranged to visit Mr As property in early December and concluded 
the external works needed to be fully repaired before the internal works could begin. In early 
January, Zurich approved the drying that needed to take place, and this was completed in 
early March. The internal works were due to begin towards the end of March, but these were 
impacted by the government instructed lockdown. It meant the contractors were unable to 
get the materials needed to carry out the repairs.
While Mr A understood the reason for the delay, he was very unhappy about the way his 
home had been left. His bedroom wall and part of the garage ceiling had been removed, and 
Mr A was concerned this potentially left his home unsecured. Zurich confirmed that it didnt 
consider this home to be less secure. It said it would arrange for the works to be carried out 
as soon as the lockdown was lifted. Zurich also offered to cash settle Mr As claim, but he 
declined this. However, Zurich did acknowledge there had been some elements of poor 
service and offered Mr A £100 in respect of this. 
Unhappy with the handling of the claim, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He said 
that the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic wasnt the main reason for the delay in carrying 
out the repairs, as these had occurred before the lockdown in March 2020. One of our 
investigators looked in to Mr As complaint. She agreed there were some service issues, and 
a few avoidable delays. Overall, she felt the main delays were beyond Zurichs control and 
she concluded Zurichs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A didnt 
agree.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted there were delays during the early part of the claim, and Ive considered the 
steps Zurich took in trying to get things back on track. It replaced the loss adjuster with 
another, and in doing so, the second loss adjuster carefully considered all the repairs that 
needed to be carried out. There were some questions about the scope of works that were 
needed. This again took some time to clarify. However, Im satisfied there werent any further 
avoidable delays after the second loss adjuster was instructed.
Overall, it took seven weeks for the property to be fully dried, and this was necessary before 
the works could begin. I havent seen anything to suggest the drying out could have been 
carried out in a shorter timeframe. It is unfortunate the repair works which were due to start 
on 25 March 2020 were delayed by the government instructed lockdown. In the final 
response letter, Zurich said there would be a further delay to the repairs being carried out 
because the contractor was unable to source the materials needed. I appreciate this led to a 
further delay in the works being carried out, but I consider this to be beyond Zurichs control. 
I dont think the initial delay at the start of the claim was the sole reason the repairs were not 
completed before the government lockdown was instructed. 
In addition to the delays experienced at the start of the claim, this was compounded by some 
earlier instances of poor communication and customer service. This being said, there was 
some information Mr A asked for that Zurich was unable to provide in respect of how long it 
would take for the repairs to be carried out  something Zurich couldnt confirm to Mr A in the 
wider circumstances. However, Im satisfied Zurich recognised the impact the delays and 
service had on Mr A and offered £100 in respect of the upset and frustration he experienced. 
I consider this amount is a fair reflection of the impact this matter had on Mr A, and Im not 
intending to direct Zurich to increase this. 
In early April the loss adjuster gave Mr A options to move forward with the repairs. Mr A was 
told he could either accept a cash settlement or wait for the government restrictions to be 
lifted before Zurich could ask their contractor to carry out the repair works. Im satisfied this 
was a reasonable offer to make to Mr A, and something Id expect to see in the 
circumstances. And while Im sorry to read this has been a difficult time for Mr A, I dont think 
Zurich could have taken a different course of action in the circumstances. It follows, Im not 
going to make a recommendation for Zurich to do anything further to put things right for      
Mr A. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman