DRN-2188652
The complaint
Mr W has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited failed to ensure a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) had been set aside as agreed following its handling of a claim under Mr Ws 
motorbike insurance policy. 
Mr Ws mother Mrs S is representing him in his complaint.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an incident in March 2016 and made a claim under his motorbike 
insurance policy with MCE. A third party claimed against the policy. In April 2018 the third 
partys representative made a claim for their costs through the court against Mr W, which 
resulted in a CCJ against Mr W.
MCE upheld Mr Ws complaint in June 2018. MCE said it would arrange for the CCJ to be 
set aside and paid compensation of £250 to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
In March 2019 Mrs S said Mr W applied for a motorbike insurance policy and he discovered 
that a record of the CCJ remained on his credit file. So he complained to MCE. 
In November 2019 MCE upheld Mr Ws complaint. It offered Mr W compensation of £150, 
but Mrs S said this has been refused. Mrs S said Mr Ws credit rating has been affected for 
over three years as MCE didnt remove the CCJ as promised. She said a fairer 
compensation award is £650 to reflect the stress caused and the impact on Mr Ws credit 
file. 
Mrs S said Mr W hasnt been able to obtain credit. And she believes the price he paid for his 
insurance policy in March 2019 was affected by the CCJ. 
We asked Mrs S and Mr W to provide any evidence it had of the impact the CCJ had so that 
we could consider this further. Mrs W says they arent able to provide any proof. But she 
feels its unfair that Mr W shouldnt receive further compensation for this reason as this isnt 
his fault. She told our investigator Mr W had intended to apply for a mortgage last year, but 
didnt because of the CCJ on his credit file.
Our investigator thought MCE had done enough to put things right in offering compensation 
of £150. She couldnt recommend anything further without proof of financial loss caused by 
MCEs failing. 
Mrs S didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says Mr W has contacted the insurer for the policy he bought in March 2019 to ask for 
proof the premium was impacted by the CCJ. But they arent able to provide evidence to 
him. Mrs S feels the compensation offered isnt enough for the time and stress involved as 
she says MCE failed to deal with the CCJ not once, but twice.
Although the incident happened in March 2016, the CCJ which is the cause of the complaint 
wasnt recorded until April 2018. Mr Ws complaint about this issue was resolved in June 
2018 and so doesnt form part of my decision. The complaint is that in March 2019 Mr W 
became aware that the CCJ hadnt been set aside as promised the year before. This isnt in 
dispute. Ive considered the impact of MCEs actions and whether the compensation it 
offered was fair and reasonable. In doing so, Ive looked at what evidence is available to 
support Mr Ws claim for financial loss. 
I think there was a further delay in arranging the setting aside of the CCJ by MCE which was 
unnecessary. MCE has offered a further compensation award of £150. I can also see that it 
asked Mr W for any evidence of the impact the CCJ had on his credit rating so that it could 
consider any actual financial loss. But Mr W wasnt able to provide any. 
MCE sent Mr W a copy of the Certificate of Satisfaction addressed to him from the court  as 
Mrs S said he hadnt received it. This shows Mr W was notified that the CCJ was removed 
as the Judgment set aside on 7 October 2019. MCE contacted The Registry Trust Ltd and 
requested that the Judgment be removed from Mr Ws credit file. They confirmed they 
received notice from the court to remove the Judgment. MCE asked Mr W to check his credit 
rating and provided links to free online credit checking websites, but didnt receive a reply.
I agree with Mrs S that having to contact MCE again in March 2019 because the CCJ hadnt 
been set aside caused unnecessary time and trouble. However, for this I think MCEs 
compensation of £150 is fair and in line with awards we give in similar circumstances. This is 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think MCE acted fairly by giving Mr W an 
opportunity to provide proof of financial loss to consider. But without any evidence, I dont 
think MCE needs to do any more. I think the compensation award of £150 is reasonable to 
put things right. 
  
My final decision
MCE Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that MCE Insurance Limited should pay £150 to Mr W if it hasnt already 
paid it.
MCE Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman