DRN-4371928
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about a loan Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Zopa provided Mrs M with a loan for £1,500.00 in October 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £78.95. One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs M 
and Zopa had told us. And he didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint be upheld. Mrs M 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ms complaint.
Zopa needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs M 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Zopa says it agreed to Mrs Ms application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information 
on a credit search it carried out a payslip it obtained from Mrs M and all of this information 
showed Mrs M could afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mrs M has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs M and Zopa have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Zopa has suggested it carried out credit searches which 
showed that Mrs M didnt have that much in the way of existing credit commitments and 
what she did have was relatively well maintained  although Mrs M was using the credit she 
had the amount she owed was pretty low. So I dont think that proportionate checks would 
have extended into Zopa finding out more about Mrs M.
I accept that Mrs M appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the information Zopa obtained. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the low amount borrowed, the low monthly payments  
and the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in the information obtained, I dont think that 
Zopa decision to lend was unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Zopa did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mrs M 
- it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided with 
anything else that suggests Zopa doing even more would have prevented it from lending 
either.
So overall I dont think that Zopa treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably when providing her 
with her loan. And Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman