DRN-4485865
The complaint
Mr R complains that TS Capital Limited advised him to invest in Contract for Differences 
(CFDs), which was unsuitable due to their high risk and his lack of experience. On his 
behalf, a claims management company (CMC) seeks a refund of £1,283.78 losses, 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and a refund of fees and costs.
What happened
Mr R opened an account with a business separate to TSC in August 2017. He then traded 
on the apparent advice of TSC. He closed the account in December 2017 having incurred 
the loss noted above. 
The CMC has said that at no point during the period in question did TSC warn him of the 
risks involved with investments of this type and even if he had been warned, he wouldnt 
necessarily have fully understood those risks. He had no idea the investments were high-risk 
as he was not an experienced investor and was not familiar with trading in CFDs, having 
only previously invested small amounts in shares.
TSC provided some information in response to the complaint including its terms of business, 
a number of documents relating to account opening and a several recordings of telephone 
calls with Mr R. 
An investigator considered the matter and concluded that the complaint should be upheld, in 
part at least, as he wasnt persuaded the advice had been suitable for Mr R. TSC didnt 
accept this, saying that the fact find confirmed Mr Rs investment experience was high, with 
him having more than 10 years experience in trading. Further, the call recordings showed 
he had a full understanding of CFDs and he wouldnt have started trading in them if he didnt 
understand the risks involved.
No agreement could be reached, so the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first that theres been a general lack of clarity about the circumstances behind 
the complaint. Various pieces of information have been provided by Mr Rs CMC and by 
TSC, but they dont, in themselves, particularly help to confirm precisely what happened. 
And this situation has been compounded by a general lack of engagement by both parties. 
Further information and clarity have been sought since the investigator issued his view, but 
little of substance has been forthcoming.
That said, in all the circumstances, I nevertheless consider there is sufficient available to me 
to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion in respect of the issues the CMC has raised for the 
specific period in question. That is, Mr Rs trading from August 2017 through to November 
2017, the period during which the evidence shows he incurred the claimed loss of £1,283.78.
As I understand it during this period Mr Rs trades were being placed with a separate 
company but based upon advice from TSC. This conclusion is supported by a power of 
attorney document signed by Mr R and a representative of TSC dated 14 August 2017, 
shortly before the trades commenced on 18 August 2017. 
A further power of attorney document has been provided, dated 5 December 2017, but I 
believe this relates to trading on a different, new account, again with advice provided by 
TSC, from early 2018 onwards. It seems that a balance of funds was transferred to this new 
account from the account on which Mr R traded in 2017. The amount transferred was 
£8,716.22, equivalent to Mr Rs initial £10,000 deposit made in August 2017, minus the 
losses incurred of £1,283.78  which is the amount sought as compensation for Mr R by his 
CMC.  
As noted, recordings of phone calls have been provided, but these appear to relate to Mr Rs 
trading in 2018. So, while they might tell us something about his understanding of CFD 
trading by that point, they dont provide much insight into the activity in 2017. 
And in respect of that particular activity, I dont think the conclusion reached by the 
investigator, that the complaint should be upheld, is a reasonable one. 
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, I 
must weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities and in 
light of the wider circumstances, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive noted that information provided after the investigator issued his view demonstrates that 
Mr R has experience of trading CFDs dating as far back as 2012. It appears he had powers 
of attorney in place with the other business covering sub-accounts with at least different 
three brokers. These came before a separate agreement with a predecessor business of 
TSC.   
The records of these accounts show a high volume of CFD trading, with amounts exceeding 
that covered by this complaint. They also demonstrate a high level of general engagement 
by Mr R over a period of years. The signed application for one of the accounts, from July 
2013 specifically confirms that Mr R had traded CFDs previously.
That Mr R had some knowledge and experience of this type of investment is also 
demonstrated in the phone calls provided, both by his representative and previously by TSC 
(albeit, as noted, those calls were made later in 2018). 
This being the case, it is difficult to see how this background tallies with various comments 
made in the original complaint letter of June 2021, which included  
Mr R had no idea that these investments were high-risk. 
Prior to being cold called by TSC, he would never have traded CFDs.
Prior to his involvement with TSC, he had no investment experience.
The complaint as made relates to a specific period in 2017 during which Mr R incurred a 
relatively minor loss of around £1,300. Given the background noted above, I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which the complaint should be upheld. 
This has been explained to Mr Rs CMC, which provided some further comments from him  
that he only followed what the advisors were telling him to do as thats what he paid them for 
as FCA authorised advisors. And further, that he was never fully aware of what CFDs were 
and what the advisors were doing for him. But, on balance, although I accept he was most 
likely receiving some guidance from TSC and other parties, I think Mr R appears to have had a reasonable degree of experience and knowledge of CFDs, and other investments. 
I accept he may have experienced other issues over the course of his trading from 2012 
onwards, but these are unlikely to be covered by the complaint as it has been put, in terms 
of timings, circumstances and respondent. In that respect, Id stress that my findings here 
dont prevent Mr R from making a further complaint about issues not covered by this 
decision, should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman