DRN-3929306
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd declined a claim for stained 
sofa cushions under his furniture protection plan.
Fortegra uses a third party company to administer these plans and handle claims, and most 
of Mr Cs correspondence has been with this company rather than directly with Fortegra. For 
the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Fortegra includes its agents, including the claims 
handling company. 
What happened
Mr C bought a new sofa in August 2021. At the same time, he bought a furniture protection 
policy, underwritten by Fortegra. In August 2022, he made a claim under the policy. He said 
children had spilled liquid over the sofa and drawn on it with a pen. 
Initially, Fortegra sent Mr C a cleaning product to try to remove the stain. When this didnt 
work it arranged for one of its technicians to visit Mr Cs home. The technician inspected the 
cushions but left without cleaning them. Fortegra said, in summary:
Mr Cs policy was for sudden and accidental damage that occurs in a single 
incident.
Its technician reported that the staining was consistent with a build up over time.
The staining on Mr Cs sofa didnt happen in a single incident so his policy didnt 
cover this. 
Mr C didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. He wants Fortegra to cover the cost 
of cleaning his sofa cushions. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Fortegra had shown that the stains werent covered by Mr Cs policy and thought its decision 
to decline the claim was unfair. She thought it should settle Mr Cs claim. Fortegra disagreed 
with this, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy covers him for individual incidents of accidental staining and accidental 
damage. But, like all policies, it has exclusions and limitations to the cover provided. 
Fortegra said its technician found clear evidence of stains on top of stains clearly this is a 
build up. He also said most of the stains were from detergent, identifiable by yellow ring 
marks.
Ive studied the photos of the sofa very carefully. I cant see any yellow ring marks. I can only 
see what appear to be liquid stains in two places on the sofa cushion, as well as two smaller 
stains made by blue/green marker pen. Thats consistent with Mr Cs original claim form. 
While I can understand why Fortegra might doubt that separate stains happened at the 
same time, I dont think its impossible. I think Mr Cs explanation of how the stains 
happened is credible. 
The claim form also says Mr C tried to clean the spill with a wipe. I think its entirely natural 
that Mr C would try to clean the spill before thinking about making a claim. Having done so, I 
dont see any reason for him to use anything other than the cleaning product Fortegra sent 
to him. So I dont see how the stains might have been caused by detergent.
I also note that Mr C had a previous claim which Fortegra settled. This means Mr C was 
familiar with the claims process. I think hes unlikely to have allowed the staining to worsen 
or done anything to jeopardise his cover.
I accept that the technician said he found stains on top of stains. But Mr C was clear from 
the start that there were multiple stains caused at the same time by toddlers spilling liquid 
and drawing on the sofa cushions. The technician didnt inspect the damage until more than 
two weeks later. The stains would have dried by then so I think its possible this might look 
like longer term damage. 
This was a one-year-old sofa and Mr C had cover for accidental staining. Hed previously 
made a claim on the policy that had been accepted. I think its unlikely that he would have 
allowed stains to build up before making another claim and Fortegra hasnt explained why its 
technician thought the stains happened at different times. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Fortegra has done enough to show why the stains should be excluded from cover. I think it 
should settle Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to settle the claim in line with the policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman