DRN-4038613
The complaint
Mr I complains about the settlement that Wakam offered him for the total loss of his car 
following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Is taxi was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. Wakam offered 
him £19,460, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr I was unhappy with 
this. He thought he couldnt replace his car for this amount. He needed to buy a replacement 
car that was less than five years old. And he thought Wakam hadnt taken into account the 
cars optional extras. Wakam later increased its offer to £19,500 less the policy excess.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Wakam 
had reasonably based its settlement for the cars market value on an engineers assessment 
and the motor trade guides we use. He thought its offer was within the range of the 
valuations provided by the motor trade guides and had taken into account the optional 
extras. So he thought this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr I replied that the settlement wouldnt be enough to buy a replacement car less than five 
years old. He thought he was suffering even though the accident wasnt his fault. He wanted 
Wakam to restore his position. Mr I asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr I wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said that hed 
seen similar cars advertised for about £25,000 and so he was disappointed with Wakams 
offer. He wanted Wakam to restore his position. But his policy provides for the cars market 
value in the case of its total loss. I can see that the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) explains:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
The most that you will be paid out in the event of a claim is the market value of your vehicle 
at the time of loss or damage.
And so Wakam isnt obliged to provide Mr I with a settlement that would allow him to replace 
his car for one less than five years old. It has to pay him the cars market value. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Wakams settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional extras as Mr Is car 
at the date of its loss. 
In keeping with our approach he took an average of these four valuations. The average of 
the valuations he found was £19,158. This took into account the specific optional extra Mr I 
thought Wakam had ignored. Wakam had offered Mr I £19,460, which was the highest of the 
valuations provided by the guides. And so I agree that Wakams offer was fair and 
reasonable. I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr I had provided adverts for similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman