DRN-3567581
The complaint
Mr R complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society to take
out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He says if hed been
given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would have bought added
years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr R is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In September 1994, Mr R was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan.
At the time, Mr R was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with
Mr R making a monthly contribution of £200 (gross). The last contribution was paid to the
FSAVC plan in March 2012 and Mr R left his employers OPS in August the same year.
In 2018, Mr R complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he
complained that the FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs as the full risks, implications, 
and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC plan were not fully and properly explained
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr R had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Rs file to its actuaries for
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
The fund value as at the date of the calculation was £177,035.47. However, the 
FSAVC benefits from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). At age 62 there is a 
guarantee of £7.48 per £100.00 (of the fund value). To use the funds to purchase an 
equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology would require an 
amount now of £275,335.05. The calculation has been based on this higher fund 
value.
The total contributions paid to the FSAVC plan represented 2.693% of Mr Rs 
pensionable pay. At the time of advice, if Mr R had directed 2.693% to the added 
years arrangement, it would have secured 2 years and 327 days added years if 
payments had been maintained to age 60.
Mr R only had headroom to buy 2 years and 261 days, which would have taken him 
to his maximum service of 40 years. This would have cost 2.523% of his 
pensionable pay. So in recognition of this, only 93.78% of the FSAVC fund value 
was being taken into account. But Mr R left his employers OPS in 2012, which 
would have been 17 years into a 23 year added years contract. So the number of 
added years he would have secured would have been reduced to 2 years 27 days. 
Calculations completed as at 1 April 2019 determined that
The prospective value of the lost Added Years £150,477.98
Less the value of the plan attributable to the liability period £257,988.94
The value of the gain £107,510.96
Mr R didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment so he
referred the complaint to our service for review. Mr R said he had concerns about
Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss assessment. He said the method of loss calculation 
put him at a disadvantage by effectively forcing him to take an annuity at retirement. In 
addition, he said the GAR was based on a single life annuity with no increases for inflation, 
whereas his added years pension offers a 50% spouse's pension and is index linked. So he 
said the comparison was flawed. Mr R said that hes unlikely to utilise the GAR when he 
takes his benefits and Wesleyan has recommended that he moves his FSAVC fund to a 
drawdown plan.
Both Mr Rs representative and Wesleyan have previously provided submissions regarding 
the use the GAR on another case. But the arguments raised are also relevant to Mr Rs 
case. 
Mr Rs representatives comments regarding the GAR
Wesleyan has been using a methodology of loss calculation that reduces the loss caused 
by mis-sold FSAVCs by a very substantial margin. Its actuaries are adopting this 
methodology and using Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) in order to potentially deprive 
the consumers of compensation.
Regulatory Guidance states that the GAR should not be used in loss calculations in order 
to reduce the amount due to the customer. The only part of the regulators FSAVC Review 
Model Guidance" which allows for the inclusion of the value of a GAR, is when doing a loss 
test per paragraph 6.25. However, if the calculation under that paragraph produces a loss 
greater than zero, then the loss and redress has to be re-calculated using the Calculation 
Tables shown in paragraphs 6.26 and 6.27 of the guidance. Those tables effectively only 
allow the *charges* of the FSAVC policy to be included, and as well as for instance 
ignoring the actual performance of the FSAVC policy, they also ignore any value of a GAR 
in the FSAVC policy. There is an exception only for FSAVCs converted from personal 
pensions, where the values of the policies are brought into the calculations.
The FSAVC Review Bulletin 3 said "the redress calculation for augmentation should follow 
the full loss assessment calculation mirroring that required for the Pensions Review'' (i.e. 
the main Pension Review for Personal Pensions, not FSAVCs). And Mr Rs CMC isnt 
aware of any Pension Review Guidance on the use of GARs in Personal Pension values.
Wesleyan comments regarding the GAR
Paragraph 6.25.1 of the FSAVC Review Model Guidance makes reference to the situation in
which the FSAVC offers some kind of valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
Wesleyan considers that this would encompass a GAR. However, Wesleyan disagrees that
such a guarantee should only be considered in carrying out the initial assessment of whether
a loss calculation is required. Whilst benefit guarantees from the FSAVC are not referenced
in paragraphs 6.26 and 6.27, Wesleyan doesnt read this as meaning that such guarantees
should be excluded from the loss assessment. It thinks that such reference was omitted
(perhaps because at the time the guidance was written such guarantees were not expected
to have a material outcome on the loss calculation). This is supported by the following
observations:
Intuitively, if the existence of a guarantee can be used to exclude a case from the
loss assessment process (under paragraph 6.25) then it is logical to expect that it
would also be allowed for in the loss assessment calculation. Any inconsistency inthis regard could result in the unfair treatment of one investor compared to another.
Where the FSAVC plan has vested, the value placed on the plan for the purpose of
an added years loss calculation would be the value of the annuity in payment
(calculated using the FG17/9 assumptions). This means that for an investor who has
a GAR, once this option has been taken up, the value of the FSAVC plan would
reflect it automatically. Therefore, in order to avoid a substantial step change in the
value of the FSAVC plan benefits at the point of vesting, it is appropriate that the
GAR is allowed for in prospective loss calculations.
Within paragraph 6.26 allowance is made in the loss calculation for any additional
subsidised benefits that would have been provided in the occupational scheme AVC
arrangement. Wesleyan considered that this would include guaranteed terms for
annuity purchase (for example the option provided by some schemes to purchase
scheme pension using an AVC pot, on fixed conversion terms  this having been
relatively common in the past). Wesleyan considers that if allowance is being made
for such guarantees in the valuation of the occupational scheme AVC then it would
also be reasonable to make allowance for similar terms in the FSAVC.
Overall, Wesleyan considers that applying an objectively justifiable test to the GAR
scenario, its clear that the GAR holds significant value for the Investor and to ignore
it for the purpose of loss assessment would result in an outcome which is overly
generous to the Investor and not representative of their actual loss. Another way of
thinking of this about this is that the loss assessment should compare the lost income
stream from the occupational scheme to the lost income from the FSAVC. If there is
no GAR then using the fund value is a proxy for this income. However, where there is
a GAR, using the fund value with no adjustment is not an appropriate way of valuing
the future income from the FSAVC. And its relevant to also acknowledge the fact
that at Wesleyan, although GARs were originally based on nil increasing and nil
spouses benefit, from a treating customers fairly perspective, if any policyholder
wants a different form of pension they will still get the value of the GAR as an uplift.
I issued a provisional decision rejecting the complaint on 31 March 2022. In summary, I said 
I intended to reject the complaint because: 
I didnt think the argument Mr R had made about the benefits of the FSAVC plan not 
being comparable with the added years arrangement was valid. I thought this 
because if the FSAVC is used to purchase an annuity, the GAR is available even if 
the annuity is taken on a different basis to the single life, level annuity Wesleyan has 
based its calculation on. So an investor could opt to take benefits similar to those that 
would have been received through the added years arrangement, had they been a 
member. As such, I thought it was appropriate to take the value of the GAR into 
account. If the GAR wasnt taken into account, there was a risk that the consumer 
could be placed in a better position at retirement if they received redress on the basis 
of the FSAVC fund value (without the GAR uplift) and then subsequently went on to 
utilise the GAR when they took their benefits.
Id thought about the fact that Mr R was considering transferring his FSAVC to a 
drawdown plan and so he thought the loss calculation put him at a disadvantage by 
effectively forcing him to take an annuity at retirement.  But I was of the view that, 
had Mr R been a member of the added years arrangement through his employers 
OPS, the options for what he could have done with his benefits at retirement are 
limited. I didnt think it would have been possible for him to transfer his added years 
to a drawdown plan or for him to have taken his benefits as a lump sum. So, as long 
as Mr R (and his financial adviser) were provided with enough information to make 
an informed choice about Mr Rs options in retirement, including that the GAR wasnt 
just available on a single life basis, and could potentially be taken on a similar basis 
to the added years arrangement, I thought that it was fair for Wesleyan to include the value of the GAR in the loss assessment calculation.
Id thought about whether the calculation should be rerun to bring it up to date and to 
base it on a GAR that more accurately reflected the benefits provided by the added 
years arrangement. But when the calculation was initially run it was determined that 
Mr R hadnt suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC out; he had in fact made 
a considerable gain. So I said that I didnt intend to ask Wesleyan to take any further 
action. 
I also acknowledged that Mr R had paid more to his FSAVC than he would have 
needed to pay to the added years arrangement, had he joined it. So Wesleyan has 
only used 93.78% of the fund value in its calculations. I thought that Mr R might 
argue these additional contributions would have been directed to the in-house AVC, 
But I said didnt intend to ask Wesleyan to complete a charges only calculation 
because Im conscious of the value the GAR adds to the fund, and so if Mr R opts to 
take an annuity, I thought this would place him in a better position than if hed 
directed these contributions to the in house AVC arrangement.
After issuing my provisional decision, it came to light that Mr R had recently transferred his 
benefits to a drawdown plan, following advice he received from Wesleyan. And so, he did 
not receive the value of the GAR, despite it being included in Wesleyans calculations. 
Having considered this new information, I updated my findings, upholding the complaint, in 
part. My updated findings are set out below: 
Added years
Ive noted everything that Mr Rs representative has said regarding the inclusion of 
the GAR but I remain of the view that its not unreasonable for Wesleyan to include 
its value in its calculation.
The benefit the GAR provides is valuable and now its been confirmed that a 
consumer can opt to take the GAR with a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line 
with CPI/RPI, Im satisfied that if a consumer wishes to secure a guaranteed 
income, providing a similar benefit to the added years arrangement, then this would 
be possible through the FSAVC.
I note what Mr Rs representative has said about the GAR not producing a 
guaranteed pension, whereas the added years arrangement does. But I think its 
important to point out that the GAR itself is guaranteed once the basis its being 
taken on, and at what age, has been determined.
What isnt guaranteed is the fund value that the GAR is being applied to. However, 
this issue isnt unique to this particular batch of complaints bought by X-Claims. All 
prospective loss case calculations for pension transfers that are completed in line 
with the regulators FG17/9 guidance, such as FSAVC complaints where the 
consumer would have bought added years, have to use projections to determine 
the fund value at retirement. This is no different to what Wesleyan is doing here, 
before the GAR is being applied. So I dont think the approach taken here is unfair.
I do agree that the GAR Wesleyan has been using in its calculations doesnt 
accurately reflect the benefits provided by the added years arrangement and Im 
pleased its said that, where necessary, it can base its calculations on a GAR that 
more closely matches the lost benefits. Its not clear at present what difference this 
will make to a loss calculation because the GAR is determined on the same actuarial 
basis as the one Wesleyan has already used in its calculations.
However, in the case of Mr R, I dont intend to ask Wesleyan to complete a 
recalculation in respect of the added years part of the complaint. This is because Mr R has said that he didnt require an income from his FSAVC plan and he wanted to 
move it to a product where it wouldnt be subject to inheritance tax. I appreciate that 
Mr R didnt receive an uplift to reflect the value of the GAR when he transferred; he 
only received the actual fund value. But it wouldnt have been possible for Mr R to 
have moved his fund if hed joined the added years arrangement. So it seems that Mr 
R has in fact benefited from the flexibility the plan has given him. And because he 
wasnt looking to replicate the benefits hed lost by not being in the added years 
arrangement, Im not minded to ask Wesleyan to recalculate.
I appreciate that the advice to transfer and give up his GAR was provided by 
Wesleyan. But that doesnt alter my decision. I dont think it can be argued that Mr R 
didnt know the GAR was valuable. I say this because the main point to his complaint 
has been that the GAR has inflated his fund value significantly. And just because 
someone has chosen to give up a GAR, it doesnt automatically follow that that 
advice was inappropriate. It has to be weighed up against, among other things, the 
consumers objectives, capacity to give up the guaranteed income and their other 
pension provisions. Its not for me to comment on Wesleyans advice in this regard. If 
Mr R has any concerns about this, thats a separate matter that he will need to raise 
with Wesleyan.
Therefore, I dont think Wesleyan needs to take any further action in respect of the 
added years side of the complaint.
Excess contributions
In my provisional decision I said Wesleyan didnt need to take any action regarding 
the excess contributions. But having reconsidered this position, taking account of the 
fact that Mr R has now moved his FSAVC to a SIPP, I do think Wesleyan needs to do 
more here, in order to provide Mr R with fair redress.
Mr R paid more to his FSAVC plan than he would have needed to pay towards the 
added years arrangement, had he been a member. And Im of the opinion that these 
excess contributions would have been directed to the in-house AVC arrangement, 
had Mr R been suitably advised when he took out his FSAVC.
Ive recently issued findings to both parties on other cases regarding consumers that 
would have chosen the in-house AVC option had the FSAVC not been mis-sold. In 
these findings I have set out in detail why I dont believe its appropriate to include the 
value of the GAR in these calculations. This is also applicable to the excess 
contributions so I dont intend to repeat my reasoning here. However, Wesleyan has 
recently raised the point that it considers its FSAVC funds have performed 
particularly well and so it considers that some consumers may not have suffered a 
loss as a result of taking the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC, despite paying 
higher charges to an FSAVC plan.
As explained in other correspondence, Im satisfied the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance allows a firm to consider if no loss has been suffered and one of the 
instances where it can do so is where the investment performance of the FSAVC 
has exceeded that of the in-house AVC arrangement by more than the cumulative 
value of the lost employer contributions and any difference in charges. So, in my 
final decision I intend to direct Wesleyan to carry out a comparison between the 
FSAVC and the in-house AVC  in respect of the excess contributions. If it can 
demonstrate that the FSAVCs performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by 
more than the higher charges Mr R has paid, then it may conclude that he has not 
suffered a loss as a result of paying the excess contributions to the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC. However, if a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr R the 
value of the excess charges. 
Im aware that, despite several attempts, Wesleyan has been unable to obtain 
notional values from the in-house AVC scheme. This isnt surprising given that the 
firm operating the scheme has changed over the years. So I have set out below, in 
the putting things right section, details of the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to 
run the comparison.
My correspondence went on to set out what Wesleyan needed to do to put matter rights. 
However, following additional submissions from both parties, I issued a further revision to 
this and addressed a number of new arguments. Ive set this out below: 
Firstly, Mr Rs representative says that its unfair the decision allows Wesleyan to 
use the value of the GAR for cases where the FSAVC has been moved and there is 
no longer an opportunity to obtain an uplift. Instead its suggested that Wesleyan 
could calculate a transfer value with the uplift, then apply an early penalty moving the 
fund. It believes this would be similar to how a with profits plan is treated when its 
surrendered early. Wesleyan is calculating the value of the GAR but this is being 
retained and it believes provision will have been made to meet these long term 
policies with GAR liabilities. So allowing it to retain 100% of that provision is unfair.
As both parties will be aware, its not for me to tell Wesleyan how it should operate. I 
can only look at the complaint in front of me and make a decision on what I think 
needs to be done to put things right. Having said that, we do expect firms to take 
account of the decisions issued and learn from mistakes. So there are instances 
where a decision on individual case will lead to a firm making changes to its 
operation. But this service does not set policy which firms much follow.
In terms of Mr Rs complaint, Ive already explained why I think its fair for the value of 
the GAR to be included in the calculation. There isnt much more I can say on this 
aspect. Mr R could have chosen to utilise the GAR and take a guaranteed income, 
similar to that provided by the added years arrangement. Instead he opted not to do 
this in order to meet his objectives.
Wesleyan may well have factored its GAR responsibilities into its future liabilities (or 
they may have been factored into the with profits fund Mr R was invested in). But this 
is no different to any other firm that offers a product with a GAR, where the plan 
holder chooses to give up those safe guarded benefits. The regulator hasnt set rules 
for firms requiring them to provide an increased transfer value to take account of the 
GAR value. Whereas with profits funds have specific rules regarding the distribution 
of funds and surrender values. So I wont be asking Wesleyan to make a payment to 
Mr R to reflect the fact that he hasnt utilised his GAR.
I previously said that I didnt intend to ask Wesleyan to rerun its calculation. This was 
because the original calculation had shown that Mr R had made a significant gain as 
a result of taking the FSAVC. So I didnt think changing the GAR within the 
calculation to one with a 50% spouses benefit, increasing in line with RPI, would 
have ultimately made enough difference to turn this into a loss. However, Mr R has 
highlighted that since the calculation was run, he has taken the benefits of his 
FSAVC plan. And the initial calculation was based on a retirement age of 62 whereas 
he actually took his scheme benefits just before his 65 birthday. Although the initial 
calculation showed a significant gain, I dont know the impact these other factors will 
have. 
So I intend to ask Wesleyan to rerun the calculation using the most recent financialassumptions. And for the fund value to be based on the GAR for an annuity providing 
a 50% spouses benefit, increasing in line with RPI.
I also intend to make a slight change to the in-house AVC side of the calculation.
Wesleyan has sourced an NHS AVC booklet to support its view the scheme would 
have restricted contributions being made to the in-house AVC arrangement with 
Equitable Life if the member was already purchasing the maximum amount of added 
years. It therefore believes that there has been no loss associated with the 
contributions to the FSAVC plan in excess of the maximum that could have been 
directed to the added years arrangement.
Ive reviewed the booklet provided and I agree that it seems likely that Mr R would 
have been impacted by these restrictions. The scheme booklet says that:
INLAND REVENUE LIMITS
The main restrictions imposed on pension benefits by the Inland Revenue at normal 
retirement age are as follow:
1. your maximum total pensions  i.e. your pension from this employment and
pensions from all other pension schemes except the State Scheme, together with
the pension value of any cash lump sum taken  must not exceed two-thirds of your
final earnings
The Inland Revenue also require that your total contributions to a pension scheme 
including additional voluntary contributions must not total more than 15% of your 
gross earnings in any year
Given the above, although Mr R would have been within the 15% contribution limit, I 
think its likely that, had he been a member of the added years arrangement, he 
would have been restricted on making further contributions to an AVC as he would 
have been expecting to receive 40 years service  the equivalent of two thirds of his 
final earnings  from the NHS when he retired.
Wesleyan accepts that this limit is only relevant until the pension simplification rules 
were introduced. So after the 6 April 2006, any contributions paid to the FSAVC plan 
could have been directed to the in-house AVC scheme.
In view of the above, I intend to direct Wesleyan to compare only the FSAVC 
contributions paid after 6 April 2006 with the in-house AVC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered matters, Im satisfied that, for the reasons explained previously, the 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
I acknowledge that Mr Rs representative has concerns that a one size fits all approach to 
applying the value of the GAR is not treating customers fairly. And its concerned that any 
protocol set by the Financial Ombudsman Service will be used in a broad brush way. 
I can only comment on the complaint in front of me and as Ive explained previously, its not 
my role to set the rules or policy for Wesleyan. Wesleyan shouldnt be taking a one size fits 
all approach to this matter. It should consider whether the approach its taking is fair in each individual complaint. But in doing so, I would expect it to take account of previous decisions 
this service has issued. 
Mr Rs representative is still of the view that its unfair to include the value of the GAR, 
particularly as Mr R has transferred his plan and hasnt received any form of uplift to his 
fund. But I dont think its unfair for the value of the GAR to be included when Mr R has 
complained that he would have bought added years if the FSAVC plan hasnt been mis-sold.  
And before he made the decision to transfer his plan, he was aware that it contained a 
valuable GAR. But in order to meet his objectives, he opted not to take a guaranteed 
income. Although the advice to transfer was provided by Wesleyan, its a separate issue to 
the sale of the FSAVC plan. So if Mr R has concerns about this particular advice, hed need 
to raise that as a new complaint with Wesleyan. 
I dont think the value should be included where it has been determined that Mr R would 
have opted to contribute any excess contributions to the in-house AVC had the FSAVC not 
been mis-sold. This is because the benefits that would have been available from the in-
house AVC wouldnt have been limited to a guaranteed income; Mr R would have had more 
flexibility in the way the benefits could be taken.  
Ive set out below what I think Wesleyan needs to do to put matter rights. 
Putting things right
Added years
As at the date of my final decision:
Wesleyan should rerun its calculation using the most recent financial assumptions. And the 
fund value should be based on the GAR for an annuity that provides a 50% spouses benefit 
and increases in line with RPI.
Excess contributions paid after April 2006
As at the date of the FSAVC plan was transferred, if Wesleyan wishes to consider whether 
no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a notional value for the in-house AVC scheme 
(in respect of the excess contributions) as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, 
the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this 
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable 
return without risk to the capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a 
higher return.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited to his objective 
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC (in respect of the excess
contributions) with this notional value. If the actual value exceeds the notional value no
financial loss has been suffered and it need not take any further action.The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr R the value of the excess charges as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Wesleyan Assurance Society to 
complete calculations as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman