DRN-3233776
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd. He isnt happy that its agent turned 
down a claim under his breakdown policy. For ease of reading any reference to Bastion 
includes its agents.
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr T had a problem with his car, fortunately he was near the services on the motorway and 
so he managed to nurse his car to the services doing about 20mph. The problem seemed to 
be in relation to the clutch and so he called Bastions agent for assistance under his 
breakdown policy. It turned down the claim as it said Mr Ts car wasnt completely immobile 
and that it had gone into limp mode which wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr T said it would be dangerous to start and move his car as it had broken down and 
couldnt be moved. And if it could it would be very dangerous to go back onto the motorway 
at such a low speed. As Bastion wouldnt recover him or even send anyone to have a look at 
the problem he was forced to pay to get his car recovered separately so he could get it 
repaired. 
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
outlined that Bastion had acted reasonably and simply followed the policy terms and 
conditions in concluding the car wasnt immobile. And as it could be moved the policy 
excluded cover. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know Bastions agent believes that only the contract term can be considered when looking 
at this complaint and Mr Ts claim. But this service has always looked at complaints on an 
individual case by case basis and in a fair and reasonable way. If it is felt something isnt fair, 
then we will look to consider the reasonableness of the actions taken and decisions made.
In this instance Mr T called to say his car had broken down and wasnt driveable. He did 
outline, initially, that he was able to do about 20mph in the car and so he managed to nurse 
the car to the services. But he didnt try to drive the car again, once it had come to a 
standstill, he just called Bastion for help and was told his policy didnt cover the claim. 
Bastions agent says, the policy defines breakdown as an electrical or mechanical failure 
which immediately renders the vehicle immobile but I cant be sure if his car was immobile in 
any event. And I certainly havent seen anything that suggests his car had gone into limp 
mode.
So, while technically using the most favourable interpretation for Bastion and one which 
clearly suited them, Mr Ts car may not have been completely mobile. But I dont think 
Bastion applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. I say this because while Mr 
Ts car may have been moveable, I dont think that means it was what most people would 
describe as mobile. 
Plus, it clearly wasnt safe or sensible to drive the car and to do so would have caused 
further damage and potential danger to other road users  especially as driving on a 
motorway at 20mph would be classed as dangerous. And Mr Ts breakdown agent, the only 
professional breakdown person or mechanic to look at Mr Ts car at the time, clearly formed 
the view that the car needed to be recovered to a garage for repair. So, Im satisfied the car 
had clearly suffered a mechanical failure and wasnt in a condition to be driven.
Furthermore, Mr T isnt a mechanic and thats why he had the breakdown policy in place. So 
I dont think it is fair to ask Mr T to interpret whether his car was mobile or not. And the call 
taker simply ran the detail provided through a computer database in deciding whether the 
car was mobile which isnt particularly persuasive. In order to confirm whether the car was 
mobile Bastion would have had to get the car inspected by a recovery agent as opposed to 
rely on a lay persons description. 
So, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case Im 
satisfied the car was what most people would consider to be immobile when contacting a 
roadside assistance provider. The sort of problem Mr T experienced is exactly the sort of 
problem people buy a roadside assistance policy to protect them against. And I find it very 
surprising that Bastion thinks its approach was reasonable. 
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Bastion to pay Mr Ts recovery costs (plus 8% simple interest for the time hes 
been without the money). And £100 compensation for the clear inconvenience caused. I say 
this as Mr T had the hassle and worry of making alternative arrangements, when he thought 
hed be able to rely on the roadside assistance cover hed bought.
Replies and developments
Mr T didnt respond to my provisional decision while Bastions agent said Mr T should not be 
afforded recovery costs and compensation for the following reasons:
No mitigation of losses as Mr T was unwilling to drive the vehicle, 
Mr Ts version of events changed during the claims call to try and lead to a 
successful outcome, and 
Mr T did not attempt to secure local recovery when arranging his private recovery.  
It went on to say again that it understood that this service looks at things on a fair and 
reasonable basis but said the policy wording cannot be ignored or overlooked. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld. I dont propose to go 
over the complaint again in full, but I will comment on some of the further representations 
made for completeness.
In the main the further points that Bastion has raised have already been considered within 
my provisional decision. I know it feels that Mr T should have driven his vehicle. But as Ive 
already outlined I think it would have been unsafe and even dangerous for Mr T to drive his 
car on to a major road, like a motorway, if he was only able to do a very low speed. I say this 
as he would be a danger to other road users and most likely cause an accident. 
Plus, Mr T isnt a mechanic and I cant be sure from the information before me what the 
problem with his car was. Had Bastion sent a recovery driver it might have been able to fix 
the car or understood what the problem was. But as it stands Mr T had to call a breakdown 
agent who formed the view that his car needed to be recovered to a garage for repair, so Im 
satisfied, on balance, the car wasnt driveable. 
In line with this I dont think Mr Ts version of events changed. He explained what happened 
when he nursed the car to the services. And then said that his car wasnt going anywhere as 
he didnt want to do any further damage to his car or to drive irresponsibly by driving slowly 
on a motorway. And as Ive explained above Im satisfied that his car may have been 
moveable. But not what most people would describe as mobile and that the car had suffered 
a mechanical failure and wasnt in a condition to be driven. Plus, as Ive already outlined I 
would have expected Bastion to have had the car inspected by a recovery agent as opposed 
to relying on a lay persons description.
Furthermore, as Bastion didnt attend Mr Ts car in order to consider the claim I dont think it 
would be fair to dictate how Mr T should have arranged recovery after that point in time. It 
abandoned Mr T at the services with a car that clearly required recovery or assistance. 
Given its failure here I dont think it would be fair to dictate, after the event, how Mr T chose 
to recover his car. And given the vulnerable position he was in and the fact that he couldnt 
use his breakdown policy I cant say he acted unreasonably by simply getting his car 
recovered. 
Given all of this, and subject to Mr T providing reasonable proof, I maintain that the fair and 
reasonable thing to do is for Bastion to pay Mr Ts recovery costs, plus 8% simple interest 
and £100 compensation.
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint and require Bastion 
Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Mr Ts recovery costs of £350 (subject to proof) plus 8% simple 
interest from the time of payment to the date of settlement. And £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman