DRN-2141618
The complaint
Miss A is complaining that a car BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) supplied 
her under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss A entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS to acquire a car. 
The cash price of the car was around £18,369, it was around three years old and had 
travelled around 63,000 miles.
Miss A says the tyre pressure monitoring system (TPMS) warning light and another yellow 
warning light came on during the test drive. She says she highlighted this with the salesman 
who she says told her they just needed resetting. But she says the TPMS light came back on 
again while driving home. Miss A says she immediately called the supplying dealership after 
this and she says she was advised that it just needed time to clear.
Miss A says she and her husband did a detailed inspection of the car following the test drive 
and she says they discovered two of the centre caps had severe pitting and damage to the 
edges where she thinks they had been removed for the wheels to be painted. She also 
thought the painting was poor because she says there was a lot black overspray on the 
callipers. She says the salesman disputed theyd painted the wheels, but he agreed to 
replace the centre caps, which she says he took from another car. 
Miss A also says the salesman advised her on numerous occasions the car had a full-
service history and she says he told her the car had only just had a full service. She says her 
husband queried the limited amount of paperwork with the car and she says the salesman 
advised him that this was because it was a previous repossession vehicle. She says she 
later found out a full service wasnt carried out prior to her acquiring it, but the dealership 
only did an oil service.
Miss A says that, despite the salesman saying the TPMS would clear eventually, they 
continued to have issues with it. She says, shortly afterwards, her husband noticed a chunk 
was missing from the alloy on one of the rear wheels, which she says had been painted 
over. Miss A contacted the dealership to discuss this and she says they advised theyd look 
into it. But she says she didnt hear back from them.
Around three weeks after Miss A acquired the car, she says another warning light came up 
asking her to check the coolant levels. Miss As husband contacted the dealership again and 
she says he was told it was normal for high performance cars to use a bit of coolant. He 
says the dealership advised him to top up the coolant to the maximum level in the expansion 
tank. 
Miss A continued to have issues with this, and he says a few weeks later smoke started to 
come out of the engine. She says she first spoke to the supplying dealership who she says 
told her she could have the car transported to them and they would have it repaired in 
house. However, she says she was told shed have to arrange to transport the car there 
herself. She says she didnt take it back to the supplying dealership, because it was around 
80 miles away and didnt think it was safe to drive that far. She says the dealership advised 
she could alternatively have the car repaired locally and it would cover the cost under the 
warranty, but it wouldnt cover the cost of a manufacturing dealership doing the work. 
So, Miss A arranged to have the car recovered to a local garage who replaced the coolant 
pipe as he said there was pressure in pipe. She sourced the coolant pipe herself from a local 
manufacturing dealership. However, she says the dealership didnt refund this cost. Miss A 
says that this repair resolved the problem with steam coming from the engine. But she says 
she still had to top up the coolant as she did before. 
Miss A also said she noticed a rattling noise in the exhaust around six weeks after acquiring 
the car. She says she also noticed the pre-inspection report mentioned an issue with the 
exhaust. So, she decided to make a claim for these issues on the warranty policy she took 
out. She says she called the dealership a number of times over the next two weeks, but she 
says was unable to speak to the relevant person. When she did eventually speak with him, 
she says he advised her that he was waiting for evidence of the faults and asked her to send 
photos showing the issues, which she did.
Miss A says she contacted the dealership a number of times over the next few months and 
was told they were still looking into it. She was later told the salesman had left the business, 
but theyd continue to look into. Miss A says she continued to keep calling them and got no 
response. In September 2019, she says the engine seized and the car cant be driven any 
longer.
Miss A contacted BMWFS to look to reject the car. But BMWFS didnt think she could as 
shed had the car for 16 months. So it said shed need to refer this back to the dealership if 
she wanted to take this further. Miss A didnt agree and maintains the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality from the start. So she referred her complaint to this service.
Miss A later arranged to have her car inspected by a local garage who said the engine had 
seized and suspected a failure of the head gasket/cylinder head. He said he didnt find any 
defects with the coolant system, but found the pressure was dropping internally. The 
engineer said the upper coolant hose had been replaced in the past, but he didnt find any 
faults arising from it. And he concluded that it was likely the internal leak was present prior to 
the hose change.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the engineer report Miss A provided 
suggested the leak was present before the coolant hose was changed by Miss As engineer. 
And she thought, the coolant dropping so frequently could have contributed to the seizing of 
the engine. She thought the engineers conclusions supported Miss As actions and 
suggested the leak from the coolant pipe started the chain of events that ultimately resulted 
in the seizing of the engine.
The investigator said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) gave BMWFS one chance to 
repair the car, but if that fails, the consumer then has the right to reject it. She thought 
BMWFS had already had an opportunity to fix the car, but she didnt think this had been 
successful. So she thought Miss A should now be allowed to reject the car. And she 
recommended BMWFS did the following:
Unwind the agreement and collect the car with no further cost to Miss A;
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from when she paid it until she gets it 
back;
Reimburse £650 for cost of repairs plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until she gets it back;Refund monthly payments from September 2019 until the date of settlement with 8% 
simple interest;
Remove any adverse information from Miss A's credit file; and
Pay £350 for distress and inconvenience.
Both Miss A and BMWFS disagreed with the investigators opinion. Miss A said she hadnt 
been able to use the car as much as shed like given the issues shed had. She also said 
she hadnt been able to use the car at all since September 2019 when the engine seized. 
BMWFS said Miss A didnt contact it about this until 16 months after shed acquired the car. 
It said the report provided didnt say whether the faults were present or developing at the 
point of sale. It disputed the evidence suggested the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply, but it thought it merely contained suggestions and opinions. It also said 
Miss A hadnt asked it to repair the car yet. So it said, even if it accepted the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, it would be entitled to look to repair the car before Miss A would be 
allowed to reject it.
I initially wrote to both parties saying I intended to uphold this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Essentially this is a complaint where the head gasket has failed on Miss As car after 
16 months. Miss A thinks its related to issues she had with the car from day one. Miss A 
says that she continually contacted the supplying dealership at the beginning to get the 
faults rectified and looked to get everything fixed under the warranty. In the end it seems she 
got the faults fixed herself at her local garage because the supplying dealership didn't 
respond to her. Miss A says she was told to keep topping up the coolant. The engine has 
now seized.
I think what's particularly pertinent to note here is that Miss A has only driven around 1,200 
miles in this car since she got it. And the engine has now seized with a suspected head 
gasket failure. Miss A also paid £18,369 to acquire this car. So she was entitled to expect to 
get a reasonable amount of use on the car and it's clear she hasn't had that. And I don't 
think a reasonable person would expect a head gasket to fail after just 1,200 miles. So the 
inference of this is that the car wasn't sufficiently durable. The issue for me, therefore, to not 
conclude the car wasn't of satisfactory quality has to be whether Miss A's own actions has 
caused the failure.
I acknowledge that Miss A has had a third party garage do some repairs, but I think it's 
unlikely this has caused the failure. I note it appears a coolant pipe burst on the car after two 
months  following steam coming from the engine. But Miss A says there continued to be 
coolant issues in the car afterwards. There does appear to have been issues with the 
coolant throughout the time Miss A has had the car, which suggests there was a fault 
present or at the very least developing at the point of sale. Miss A says she tried to contact 
the dealership continually throughout this time.
I've found Miss A persuasive on this as I don't think it's likely, having spent the money she 
did on the car and with the limited usage she's had of it, that she would have clearly been 
looking to do something about this.   
Ultimately, it seems to me that there was an inherent fault with the car's cooling system 
which has caused the potential failure of the head gasket. So, in absence of any further 
evidence, I intend to say the car's not been of satisfactory quality. I'm inclined to award the 
following:
1. Allow Miss A to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to her;2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay - and arrange for any adverse details to 
be removed from Miss A's credit file;
3. Refund 50% of the monthly payments Miss A made up to September 2019 to reflect the 
limited amount use Miss A has had of the car due to the various issues she'd had with it*; 
4. Refund all the monthly payments Miss A has made since September 2019*;
5. Refund the amount Miss A has paid to replace the coolant and exhaust pipes*; and
6. Pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
her.
*BMWFS should add 8% simple interest on these payments (less tax if appropriately 
deducted) from when Miss A paid them until she gets them back.
BMWFS didnt respond to me and Miss A responded to accept what I said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to the one I initially reached. So I uphold this complaint and I shall now go into 
more detail about why.
Miss A acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, BMWFS is responsible 
for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that theres a 
fault with the car, but the issue is whether it was present at the time of sale, and whether that 
fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ive also considered 
whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Miss A has 
experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car sufficiently durable.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, the cash price of 
the car was around £18,369, it was around three years old and had travelled around 63,000 
miles at the point of supply. 
As I said above, its important to note that Miss A has only travelled around 1,200 miles in 
the car when the engine seized. I acknowledge Miss As car had travelled above average 
mileage for its age when she first acquired it, but, given the cash price of the car, I think she 
was reasonably entitled to expect it to be free from major faults for more than 1,200 miles. 
Im also conscious shes shown the car had to have a coolant pipe replaced in September 
2018 after the pipe burst  around four months after she acquired the car, which supports 
her testimony the car was having coolant issues within a short period of time of acquisition. 
Finally I note the engineer report carried out on the car, similarly concluded that its most 
likely the coolant leak was present prior to the coolant pipe being replaced.
Taking everything into account, it seems to me that there was a fault with the coolant system 
becoming apparent very shortly after Miss A acquired the car. And I think its most likely the 
fault was at least developing at the point of sale. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to see such a significant issue to be present in this car given its age and price. So I 
remain of the belief the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A.I havent seen anything to suggest that the head gasket failure is down to anything Miss A 
did and, for the reasons Ive set out previously, Im satisfied that its most likely to be down to 
an inherent defect in the car.
For the reasons Ive set out previously, I think its likely Miss A did initially look to try and 
resolve the matter directly with the supplying dealership and Im persuaded by what shes 
told me that she wasnt able to do so. So I do think she took reasonable steps to resolve this 
matter directly with the supplying dealership first.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Miss A has exercised her right to look to get her car fixed, but this 
hasnt been done in a reasonable period of time. I note BMWFS says Miss A hasnt 
previously asked it to carry out any repairs. But, Im satisfied Miss A asked the supplying 
dealership to carry out repairs. Had Miss A contacted BMWFS directly at the beginning, I 
think its likely BMWFS would have directed her back to the supplying dealership. So I dont 
think the situation would have been significantly different had she contacted BMWFS at the 
beginning.  
The CRA gives her the right to now reject the car and I think thats the fair and reasonable 
thing to do too.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Allow Miss A to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to her;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and arrange for any adverse details to 
be removed from Miss A's credit file;
3. Refund 50% of the monthly payments Miss A made up to September 2019 to reflect the 
limited amount use Miss A has had of the car due to the various issues she'd had with it*; 
4. Refund all the monthly payments Miss A has made since September 2019*;
5. Refund the amount Miss A has paid to replace the coolant and exhaust pipes*; and
6. Pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman