DRN-4398042
The complaint
Mr C and Miss J complain about Wakam Insurance Company (WIC) who declined their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C and Miss J were decorating their home. During the renovation works, they noticed that 
there was an issue with the newly installed flooring. They obtained a causation report, and 
this found that a large amount of the flooring had suffered from thermal shock. This meant 
that the adhesive that had been applied to the tiles had come away. The root cause of the 
thermal shock also found that some plastic protective matting (that had been taped over the 
tiles) had caused the heat to be forced down, whilst the underfloor heating had been on. 
Mr C and Miss J submitted the report to WIC and made a claim. WIC considered the report 
and ultimately declined the claim. It said that as there had been extremes of temperature, 
this caused the thermal shock. And as a result, there was no cover under the policy. 
Mr C and Miss J were unhappy with ; the outcome and raised a complaint. They said that the 
maximum temperature of the underfloor heating would not have exceeded 28 degrees. And 
as this wasnt an extreme temperature, the claim should be accepted. In its final response, 
WIC maintained its position. It said that the decision to decline the claim was the correct one, 
as there was no information to support that the damage caused was due to an insured 
event, that occurred in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr C and Miss J were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators, considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said that 
WIC hadnt done enough to show how the exclusion that it had relied upon applied. She said 
that Mr C and Miss J had obtained expert evidence to show that the damage wasnt as a 
result of the temperatures involved. So, she thought WIC should accept the claim and settle 
it. 
Mr C and Miss J accepted the view. WIC did not. It said that Mr C and Miss Js own expert 
concluded that there had been thermal shock. The shock had caused the damage, which 
was due to extremes of temperature. Further, the fitting of the matting over the underfloor 
heating (whilst the heating was on) was against all industry recommendations and by 
installing it, would fall under the definition of faulty workmanship. Finally, accidental damage 
couldnt be considered as the damage wasnt due to a single or one-off event, that was 
sudden. As the heat was being redirected into the flooring over a number of days. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 August  2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
29 August 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr C and Miss J, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think 
this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether WIC fairly declined Mr C and 
Miss Js claim. Having reviewed the evidence, I think it did, so Ill explain why. 
One of the terms that WIC declined the claim states: 
There is no cover for: damage caused by dryness, dampness, extremes of temperature and 
exposure to light.
Mr C and Miss J said that the underfloor heating that had been left on, hadnt been on at a 
high temperature. So, the floor and adhesive hadnt been exposed to extreme temperatures. 
Further, for the temperature to be deemed extreme, the underfloor heating would have to be 
run at 32 degrees or higher. They provided evidence that the maximum temperature that it 
could be run at was 28 degrees. And this they said supported their contention, that the floor 
wasnt exposed to extreme temperatures. 
I have thought about what this means and in particular in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Mr C and Miss J provided expert evidence which concluded that the damage was 
due to thermal shock.  
WIC provided a definition of thermal shock, and this stated: 
Thermal shock occurs when materials are rapidly exposed to extreme temperatures, Severe 
and/or repeated exposure to sudden changes in temperature can lead to degradations in 
material strength or performance. This can cause issues for some insulation materials, or 
even lead to thermal shock failure Depending on their thermal expansion coefficients, 
different materials may undergo varying levels of expansion which can cause tears, ruptures, 
and fractures.
Having read the term in conjunction with the definition of thermal shock, as well as the report 
provided by Mr C and Miss J, Im persuaded that the floor (and adhesive) were exposed to 
extremes of temperature. That is, sudden changes in the temperature that the floor and 
adhesive were exposed to. Rather than an extreme temperature, which I accept wasnt the 
case here. 
WIC further said that rapidly changing temperatures was enough to put materials well 
outside their normal working tolerances and cause mechanical breakdown. Which wasnt 
helped by Mr C and Miss Js contractors covering the floor with a protective matting, that 
acted as a barrier and prevented the heat from escaping. In other words, it caused the heat 
to be forced back into the floor (despite the standard heat settings) and damaged the 
adhesive, thus causing thermal shock. In addition, Im satisfied that the policy term supports the thermal shock definition, that WIC 
relied upon. In that, it states that cover isnt provided for damage that is caused by extremes 
of temperature. 
Turning to the accidental damage comments that Mr C and Miss J have also raised. I have 
had a further look at this.  
The policy term under accidental damage states: 
Covers you for unexpected and unintentional damage or breakage to your contents by a 
single and one-off event resulting from a sudden and external means. 
Whilst I agree that the damage was likely unexpected or unintentional, the second half of the 
term makes it clear that the damage ought to be caused by a one-off or single event. Im 
not persuaded that this was a one-off event, given that Mr C and Miss J confirmed that the 
heating had been on for a few days. Consequently, I dont think that its reasonable or fair to 
conclude that the damage was sudden, which means that the accidental damage term, cant 
be relied upon by Mr C and Miss J. 
Finally, WIC also said that by fitting the matting over the underfloor system (whilst the 
heating was on) went against all manufacturer and industry recommendations. As a result, it 
could fairly decline the claim under the exclusion of faulty workmanship, as well.  
I havent been provided with any evidence from Mr C and Miss J that is contrary to this 
contention by WIC. If, however, Mr C and Miss J are able to provide any expert evidence 
that is contrary to this, then I will consider it. But currently, Im persuaded by WICs 
comments that faulty workmanship contributed to the damage caused. 
Presently, I think that WIC was reasonable in its response to Mr C and Miss J. And I think it 
fairly declined their claim, under the policy terms and conditions. 
I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr C and Mrs J wouldve liked, but currently, I 
wont be able to reasonably ask WIC to do anything more at this stage, to resolve this 
complaint. I will though consider any further evidence that Mr C and Miss J might have if 
they wish to rely upon it.
Responses to my provisional decision
WIC agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr C and Mrs J did not. They provided a number 
of comments which I have carefully considered. I also sent those comments to WIC for its 
comments. 
I think, given the extensive comments made by Mr C and Mrs J, it would be best for me to 
put the comments in full, with my findings that will follow. It should be noted that WIC 
provided comments, which I also considered and have included them also. 
We are still yet to receive a definition of extremes of temperate form our insurer. Given this 
is the exclusion in the policy wording, this is the definition we should be provided with. 
Instead, we have been given a definition of Thermal Shock. If the insurer could please 
evidence where Thermal Shock is an exclusion in the policy that would be greatly 
appreciated. Having re-read our policy wording I can confirm that Thermal Shock is not 
once mentioned in our policy wording. 
WIC commented as follows. As per some other definitions in the policy (e.g., 'Storm'), we do 
not define these specifically - and we take a view that has been supported by your service in other decisions that where a specific term is not defined then it should be interpreted in a fair 
and reasonable way in line with what a customer should expect and in line with industry 
norms. We intentionally do not define 'extremes of temperature' in the policy definitions as 
this is very dependent on the item in question. 
For example, a kitchen unit designed to house an oven, or a surround for a log burner would 
have normal expected temperatures that could reach very high levels (and the same would 
be true for items designed to be used in below freezing conditions or stored in unheated out-
buildings or garages). So, we do not define a specific temperature range in general, and we 
base our decisions in these cases on whether the item has been placed or used in 
temperature conditions that it was clearly not designed for and would be considered 
'extreme' by the manufacturer in terms of the item's tolerances. This was cross referenced 
with research on industry norms and expectations ( more on that below ).
Thermal Shock is not mentioned in our policy, however, your provisional decision report 
states that The shock has caused the damage. By definition of Insurance principles and 
practices, we have now determined the causation of loss is Thermal Shock. Going back to 
my first point, being Thermal Shock is not identified, defined, included in our policy 
wording, if the causation of loss aforementioned is Thermal Shock as mentioned, this claim 
cannot be denied on that basis. 
WIC replied as follows. We have an expert opinion (provided by the policyholder 
themselves) that the cause of damage was 'Thermal Shock' - by the very definition of that 
term (and the researched industry views that we have provided), this would be caused by an 
extreme temperature situation that the materials were placed under (and this can definitely 
have been caused by the direction the heat was forced into - not just the setting on the 
thermostat, we are not disputing the policyholders assertion of the setting he left the heating 
at). 
Faulty Workmanship - This exclusion cannot be considered. We (Mr C and Miss J) fitted the 
matting over the tiles and therefore the underfloor heating system, not the contractor. This is 
evidenced in the Claims Detail report form our contractor, After the work was completed, in 
order to protect the tiles, the customer laid a black plastic protective matting. As such this 
should not be considered, so please can you remove from your findings. 
WIC commented as follows. Faulty workmanship does not have to be performed by external 
contractors. The policyholder themselves can undertake work of their own faulty 
design/specification, workmanship, or materials. It does not fall under the terms of this policy 
that they are covered for the ongoing or long-term effects this might have on their building or 
contents. The fitting of a matting system over underfloor heating (whilst leaving the heating 
system on!) is against manufacturer and industry recommendations that we have 
researched, and so for us would quite clearly fall under the definition of faulty workmanship.
Accidental Damage claim - The definition of one-off event according to the Collins 
dictionary is when it is made or happens only once. We only once turned the underfloor 
heating on, and we only once laid the matting onto the floor. We didnt continuously turn the 
heating on or off. As a result, the one-off event of laying the matting on the floor falls in the 
accidental damage definition. In relation to the second point sudden and external means. 
Have WIC provided industry evidence that it would take a few days for the adhesive to be 
damaged. Despite the heating being on for a few days the damage to the adhesive may 
well have occurred immediately and more importantly suddenly. Without evidence 
supporting it would take a few days for the adhesive to be damaged, I dont believe it is fair 
or reasonable to assume that this is case, and therefore we could just as easily assume that 
the damage was sudden.WIC said, we would reiterate here that the laying down of protective matting for a period of 
days and leaving the heating on whilst further decoration continued would not appear to 
meet a reasonable person's definition of sudden. It would ask has the policyholder provided 
evidence that the damage occurred from a sudden means? - it would be their responsibility 
to demonstrate such a thing under the terms of the policy - not an insurer's responsibility to 
demonstrate otherwise.
WIC provided a definition of thermal shock - We have already determined that Thermal 
Shock is the causation of the loss here. As Thermal Shock is not mentioned in the policy, 
this definition is almost irrelevant to the case. Please could we get clarification as to where 
this definition has come from? This is the first I have seen of this definition. Precedent of this 
definition being used would also be required. Is this a definition WIC have produced 
themselves or is this an independent industry accepted definition? 
WIC said  and provided a number of examples to support its contentions: We researched a 
variety of sources for an accepted definition across the industry and in public facing science 
literature, and used their ranking on the first page of an internet search to be representative 
of the widely accepted definitions and there are a number of examples:- 
https://conceptgroupllc.com/vacuum-insulation-thermal-shock-test/ ("materials are rapidly 
exposed to extreme temperatures")"
https://www.allthescience.org/what-is-thermal-shock.htm ("The damage is a reaction to a 
rapid and extreme temperature fluctuation ") 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/chemistry/thermal-shock (" Thermal shock produces 
cracks as a result of rapid component temperature change")"
https://engineeringlibrary.org/reference/thermal-shock-and-stress-doe-handbook (" Thermal 
shock (stress) can lead to excessive thermal gradients on materials, which lead to excessive 
stresses. ") 
The policyholder seems to be demanding here that only a single industry wide definition of a 
term should exist - I do not think such a thing is realistic or reasonable. However, I do think it 
is realistic to say that a common layperson (or even industry experts) definition of Thermal 
Shock would be that it comes as a result of the item being placed in an environment of 
extremes of temperature.
Bottom of page 2 - Having read the term in conjunction with the definition of thermal shock 
(which is not an exclusion in our policy), as well as the report provided by Mr C and Miss J, 
Im persuaded that the floor (and adhesive) were exposed to extremes of temperature. That 
is, sudden changes in the temperature that the floor and adhesive were exposed to. Rather 
than an extreme temperature, which I accept wasnt the case here. This paragraph states 
that extremes of temperature was not the causation of the loss here. As a result, if 
extremes of temperature was not the causation of the loss in this instance, the claim 
cannot be denied using this exclusion.
WIC commented as follows.  The policyholder is trying to conflate the issue here. His 
definition of "Extreme temperature" seems to be that it can only be the raw magnitude of the 
temperature (e.g., 50oC). However, "Extremes of Temperature" can also represent 
environments of extreme temperature gradient. i.e., Rapidly heating and cooling in and of 
itself - in a way the material was not designed to withstand."Rapidly changing temperature - WIC stated that rapidly changing temperatures was enough 
to put materials well outside their normal working tolerances. Please could WIC provide 
evidence where my policy excludes rapidly changing temperatures? WIC have excluded 
this claim on extremes of temperature which the Ombudsman have clearly stated Rather 
than an extreme temperature, which I accept wasnt the case here.
Already answered as above
Satisfied Terms - If WIC and the Ombudsman are deferring to the Thermal Shock definition 
as stated on page 3, please could WIC again provide evidence where my policy excludes 
Thermal Shock? If there is no evidence of Thermal Shock in my policy, WIC and the 
Ombudsman cannot use this definition, which would then remove extremes of temperature 
from the denied claim.
Again, already answered as above. 
Manufacturer and industry recommendations - Went against all manufacturer and industry 
recommendations. As a result, it could fairly decline the claim under the exclusion of faulty 
workmanship. We have researched the manufacturer and industry recommendations for the 
underfloor heating product used, and we have acted in accordance with those 
recommendations. Please see attached the manufacturer recommendations and turn to 
page 17. Dont place any product over the floor covering that has a higher tog value than 
2.5. Now please see the below referenced screenshot of the product we purchased with a 
Tog rating of 2.4. We have acted within the manufacturer and industry recommendations, so 
this point cannot be use in consideration when denying the claims. As a result, the faulty 
workmanship exclusion cannot be used in this claim.
WIC said that  it couldnt see the policyholders evidence, so was unable to comment on a 
particular TOG rating or that referenced manufacturer documentation. However, it had 
researched and provided industry view on how a newly installed UFH system should be 
treated on installation to minimise the risks of thermal shock:-
https://www.bostik-profloor.co.uk/tiled-flooring-the-heat-is-on/ 
https://allthingsflooring.com/2018/11/dont-get-cold-feet-part-2-avoiding-floor-failure-ufh- 
systems/ 
And they in turn reference British Standards (e.g., BSEN 1264) In particular - they advise a 
14-day period of the UFH being at a cutback or switched off level (for the adhesives to cure 
and the tiles to settle) - and then they recommend a slow bring up to a working temperature.
By the policyholder's own description of the work (and subsequent covering of the tiles, 
which an expert concluded forced heat back down into the flooring) - it is clear that this 
guidance was not followed."
WIC further said that this seems like an untenable position for the policyholder to be 
arguing:- 
1) That fitting protective matting and turning the underfloor heating on should be 
regarded by the policy as an 'Accident'.
2) That they operated within all manufacturer guidance and industry norms and did not 
contribute to cause the issue by fitting the protective matting.
I do not think that it is consistent to claim both things. If there was no 'Accident' and the items 
failed under 'normal' operation, then I do not think that the policy can answer (it would be a case of faulty design/specification or materials - the responsibility of the manufacturer). If the 
policyholders are claiming that they were using the materials as described and completely 
within their tolerances - then what peril under the cover are they seeking to claim under? 
What was the 'accident' if the materials simply failed under normal operation?
I have reviewed both parties comments and I think Im more persuaded by WIC comments 
overall. Not only did Mr C and Mrs J admit that they had covered the tiles with a protective 
sheeting, but they did so immediately after the tiles had been laid. 
In addition, their own expert evidence confirmed that the damage was caused by thermal 
shock. And the evidence indicates that thermal shock occurs where there has been 
extremes of temperature.  
Mr C and Mrs J seem to suggest that the provisional decision accepted that the underfloor 
heating was set on a high temperature. But the provisional decision wasnt supporting this. 
The main word here is of. So, the extremes of temperatures as WIC has indicated, 
represents extreme temperature gradients, that is, rapidly heating and cooling in an area. 
Rather than high temperatures.  
Finally, I dont think accidental damage can apply here either. Not only as Mr C and Mrs J 
admitted that they turned the heating on for a few days, but also, they havent provided me 
with enough evidence to support that the event, was sudden or one-off. And therefore, an 
accidental event. 
I acknowledge Mr C and Mrs Js strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show that WIC acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman