DRN-1579413
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card PPI (payment 
protection insurance) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 1996.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Mrs B owed on her store card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs B couldnt work because 
she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken out in store and from what I know about their sales practices, I think its 
more likely that AXA didnt give advice to Mrs B during the sale. So it didnt have to check 
that the policy was right for Mrs B but it did need to give her clear enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if this cover was right for her.
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form completed at signed by Mrs B at the time 
of sale. But I havent any evidence to show that Mrs B was given clear information about the 
cost of the policy, in real terms. Its possible AXA may have explained the amount she would 
pay for each pound she spent on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would 
be charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need 
to keep paying the premiums during a claim. So I dont think its likely Mrs B would have been 
made aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs B as she has told us that she would have been paid 
full sick pay for at least six months if she was too ill to work. She has also said she had at 
least six months of savings that she could use to meet her repayments. So I dont think that 
Mrs B would have thought the policy was value for money if she had fully understood the 
costs.So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think AXA gave clear enough 
information to Mrs B to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have considered it 
value for money. So I think Mrs B has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
 Putting things right
 AXA should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA something on her store card account. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman