DRN-1636602
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt take reasonable  
steps to notify her of changes to her account activity.   
What happened
Mrs P opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in 2013. According to Barclaycards 
records, Mrs P opened the account online and shortly after she authorised a second 
cardholder  her husband.
When opening the account (with an initial credit limit of £8,600) Mrs P transferred a balance 
of about £3,000 from another account to her Barclaycard. Until late 2016, regular payments 
were made towards the transferred account balance without there being any further 
spending on the account.  
There were further transactions on the account from late 2016 at which point Mrs Ps 
account balance increased to over £2,000. From then onwards the balance continued to 
increase. Around August 2017 Barclaycard automatically increased the credit limit to 
£11,600. And around November 2018, it increased the credit limit further - to over £14,000. 
Throughout this time regular payments were made towards the account balance often by an 
amount far in excess of the minimum payment.
Barclaycard sent regular account statements to Mrs Ps home address. 
Mrs P said she received a text message from Barclaycard around August 2019 telling her 
the account balance was close to its (increased) limit. Mrs P contacted Barclaycard about 
this and said she was shocked to find out that her husband had run up a significant account 
balance. She said she didnt know about this until Barclaycard sent her the text message 
because her husband had been intercepting the account statements and making payments. 
Mrs P later complained to Barclaycard. In its response, whilst accepting that finding out 
about an increased account balance must have been an upsetting shock for Mrs P, it said 
there was no reason for it to contact her sooner. It explained that her husband was an 
authorised user on the account with a credit card of his own and the account had been 
maintained in excellent order. Barclaycard said logistically, it wasnt possible to monitor 
every account individually, so it expected customers to check their accounts and let it know 
of any issues. In Mrs Ps case, however, it accepted she hadnt been receiving her regular 
account statements. To help Mrs P, Barclaycard said it had temporarily stopped interest and 
had refunded two months worth of added interest (amounting to over £400). On top of that, 
it said it would close the account and reduce the remaining interest rate, so that more of 
Mrs Ps payments went towards reducing the account balance rather than paying off the 
interest. It gave Mrs P time to consider her options.
Mrs P wasnt happy with Barclaycards response, so she complained to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think Barclaycard had done anything 
wrong. He said he was satisfied that Barclaycard had sent regular account statements to 
Mrs P at the correct address. He was also satisfied Barclaycard notified Mrs P when it was 
intending to increase her credit limit. And as the account was well run and wasnt in arrears, 
the investigator didnt think there was any cause for Barclaycard to be concerned about what 
was going on. He also thought Barclaycards offer to reduce the interest rate was a fair one, 
so he didnt think he could ask Barclaycard to refund the interest charged.
Mrs P responded and said the key issue was communication between provider and 
customer. She said that if the policy was to notify her electronically of key changes in her 
account, shed have taken swift action to put a stop to any further spending if shed been 
contacted sooner. But Mrs P says the first time she was contacted by text message was in 
August 2019.
Our investigator asked Barclaycard for more information, particularly about the way in which 
it had communicated with Mrs P. Barclaycard confirmed that electronic alerts had always 
been set up on the account, so it couldnt say why Mrs P hadnt received other alerts. 
Its records indicate it sent various electronic alerts - including to let Mrs P know that 
Barclaycard had increased her credit limit, or when her account balance was nearing its 
credit limit.
Our investigator sent a further assessment.  Whilst he accepted that Mrs P hadnt received 
Barclaycards alerts, he said he was satisfied it had made Mrs P aware of the status of her 
account. He also said that the accounts terms and conditions made it clear that 
responsibility for monitoring an account rested with the account holder. The investigator was 
satisfied that Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong and that its offer to reduce the interest 
rate on the outstanding balance was fair. Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators 
assessment, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about the position that Mrs P found herself in. And I can imagine it 
must have been a great shock for her to find out that her Barclaycard account was still open 
(she indicated she thought it had closed) and that a significant debt had been run up without 
her knowledge.
Mrs P thinks the issues she faced stem from poor communication on Barclaycards part. 
Whilst she accepts that its text message around August 2019 alerted her to the problem, 
shes suggested that similar and earlier communication from Barclaycard would have led her 
to take swifter action. 
So, Ive thought about whether Barclaycard took reasonable steps in Mrs Ps case. Mrs P 
couldnt initially recall authorising a second card holder on the account  although shes not 
suggesting theres been any fraudulent activity or intervention by a third party. The evidence 
Ive seen suggests the second card holder was added shortly after Mrs P opened the 
account online. But as that was about eight years ago now, I can appreciate Mrs P might not 
remember all of the events from that time. And whilst being an authorised user entitled 
Mrs Ps husband to his own credit card, the terms and conditions of the account make clear 
that the account holder (Mrs P) retained responsibility for payments and use of the card by 
an additional card holder. 
And given that responsibility, it was important for Barclaycard to keep Mrs P informed about 
the account activity. I can see it sent her regular monthly account statements as the account 
terms required it to do. And those statements were sent to her home address. Unfortunately 
for Mrs P, she didnt get to see them, as her husband was intercepting them and was 
making sure that payments were made on time. Whilst I can imagine it must have been 
upsetting for Mrs P to later realise what had happened, I dont think there would have been 
any way of Barclaycard knowing that she wasnt receiving her statements. I say that in particular because as far as Barclaycard was concerned, Mrs Ps account was 
being well-maintained. Payments of at least the minimum amount were being made on time 
and in some months the payments were considerably more. So, I dont think there would 
have been anything to signal there was a problem. And it follows that I dont think 
Barclaycard can be held responsible for the fact that Mrs P didnt see her statements.
That said, I do appreciate Mrs Ps position that she might have acted sooner had she known 
about the problem. The account terms and conditions Barclaycard sent me say it will contact 
customers in a range of ways including by text and email. And whilst I can see why receiving 
other text messages might have been helpful to Mrs P, it seems she only received the one 
shes referred to around August 2019. Its not clear why that is, as the evidence indicates 
Barclaycard sent at least one other text message - in November 2018  when it proactively 
increased her credit limit. Its records state customer notified of PCLI by SMS. However, 
Barclaycard has also sent me an account history showing that it sent Mrs P various other 
alerts  including by email - about things such as the account balance nearing its credit limit. 
Its not completely clear to which email address they were sent or why Mrs P didnt receive 
them, but Im satisfied the evidence does show Barclaycard tried to contact Mrs P by means 
other than just sending account statements. And whilst I fully appreciate that Mrs P might 
think Barclaycards action should perhaps have gone further, I cant fairly say it did anything 
wrong - particularly as it seems to have acted within the account terms. And I dont think it 
was under any obligation to do anything more. 
Ill also say here that I think Barclaycard has taken reasonable steps to try to help Mrs P 
given the difficult position she found herself in. I can see that it refunded interest of over 
£400; it temporarily stopped interest and it reduced the interest rate on the remaining 
account balance. I thought that was fair in the circumstances. I also understand that Mrs P 
has since settled her account balance in full. I appreciate that this will likely come as 
disappointing news for Mrs P, but after careful consideration, and for the reasons Ive 
outlined, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong. So, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman