DRN-3673041
The complaint
Miss H complains about the service she received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage) when she made a claim for damage to her car under her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss Hs car was damaged. She contacted Advantage and it arranged for 
repairs under her policy. Miss H noticed some issues with the repairs when the car was 
returned to her. This required further work. Miss H remained unhappy with the quality of the 
work and so Advantage arranged for an inspection by an engineer. The engineer 
commented on some historic issues with the repairs but concluded they had now been 
resolved. 
Miss H had the car serviced by the main dealer and arranged for it to carry out an inspection. 
Further issues were found so Advantage arranged for another engineer to inspect. Multiple 
issues were subsequently identified requiring repairs. Advantage agreed for the car to be 
repaired at Miss Hs chosen garage. Whilst the vehicle was being assessed further damage 
came to light. As a result, Advantage decided the car was a total loss and offered Miss H a 
settlement payment.
Advantage says the guide price was £15,700 but it agreed to pay £16,400 after discussion 
with Miss H. It accepts the customer journey was poor and so awarded £435 in 
compensation. It also refunded Miss H the cost of the service and MOT she had paid whilst 
the matter was ongoing. 
Miss H wasnt satisfied with this outcome and so referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says that compensation was warranted given 
the delays, the number of garage visits and poor the overall customer journey. But he 
thought Advantages offer of £435 was fair. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from the records provided that when Miss H contacted Advantage it arranged for a 
hire car to be provided. She didnt want the class of vehicle provided by her policy, which is 
confirmed in the terms as a, group A vehicle such as a Ford Ka. I can see that a higher 
specification model was provided, albeit Miss H was involved in ensuring this happened. 
I understand Miss Hs car was initially repaired by mid-September 2021. However, the 
records show she raised concerns about multiple issues with the quality of the repairs. This 
included problems with the boot lid alignment, rear bumper alignment, rear inner tail lamp, 
dirty marks on a sun visor, a paint chip, and misalignment of the roof. Advantage says the 
remedial repairs were completed by the original garage by the first week of November. 
After the remedial repairs were completed, Advantage arranged for an engineer to inspect 
the repairs to Miss Hs car. Ive read the report the engineer produced. He made comments 
about the remedial repairs that were needed and carried out by the original garage - but 
found no further problems requiring additional work.      
Miss H had her car serviced with the main dealer in early December 2021. I understand it 
also carried out an inspection on her request. I havent seen a copy of a report following this 
inspection. But Advantage says the garage identified a potential issue with the paintwork 
blistering, and that the exhaust required re-fixing. It arranged another inspection as a result 
of these findings with an independent engineer. 
Ive seen the report completed by the engineer in January 2022. This sets out a number of 
further issues with Miss Hs car that required more work and checks to be carried out. 
Advantage agreed to the work being carried out at the main dealer, as requested by Miss H. 
Given the ongoing issues with the quality of repairs from Advantages appointed garage, and 
the further problems identified with the car  I think this was reasonable.  
Whilst Miss Hs car was being taken apart to carry out the required repairs, more damage 
was identified. I can see from the garage estimate that the total cost of the repairs was 
approaching 80% of the market value. I understand this is why Advantage decided to treat 
the car as total loss and to offer a settlement payment.
Its unfortunate that it took until March 2022 for the true extent, and cost of the repairs to be 
understood. This must have been frustrating and was obviously upsetting for Miss H. We 
expect an insurer to arrange for repairs to be completed in an effective and timely manner. I 
dont think this happened here given it took around eight months from registering the claim to 
a settlement offer being made in early April. It also took ongoing persistence from Miss H to 
ensure all the damage to her car was identified and repaired.  
I have thought about whether it was fair for Advantage to provide a payment in settlement of 
Miss Hs claim. The policy terms state:
If your Car cant be repaired or your Insurer deems the cost of repair to be uneconomical, 
your Car will be declared a Total Loss (sometimes called a write-off).     
And:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.   
Based on the policy terms I dont think Advantage behaved unfairly in offering a settlement 
payment. Ive seen the valuations it obtained using the motor trade guides. This gave a 
range of values from £15,840 to £16,112. Our service follows the same approach by referring to the motor trade guides when considering if a settlement offer is fair. So, I dont 
think Advantages approach was unreasonable. 
From the records provided Miss H was initially offered £15,770 at the beginning of April 
2022. Advantage says this was the value the engineer who inspected the car in January 
2022 had confirmed. Miss H didnt agree to this, and the offer was subsequently increased to 
£16,400, which she accepted. From what Ive seen Advantages final offer was higher than 
the valuations obtained. Miss H doesnt dispute the payment she received, and from the 
valuation information provided I cant see that it was unreasonable, so I neednt consider this 
point further.
 
That said I do acknowledge Miss Hs comments that she had to fight to have the offer 
increased. And that she had very poor service with no-one calling her back or replying to 
emails. I also note what Advantage says about its offer being in excess of the guide price, 
and that it provided a hire car of a higher specification than required by Miss Hs policy. It 
has also confirmed that it paid for the service and MOT Miss H arranged during the period 
repairs were ongoing.
I think it was fair for Advantage to reimburse Miss H for the cost of the service and MOT. 
She didnt benefit from this because her car was considered a total loss and wasnt returned 
to her. I dont think she wouldve agreed to pay for a service had Advantages garage 
identified the true cost of the damage at the outset.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Advantage handled Miss Hs claim well. It took 
around eight months to eventually offer a settlement payment. Its reasonable to expect this 
couldve been arranged far sooner had the damage been assessed effectively in the first 
instance. There were numerous issues with the repairs that meant Miss H making ongoing 
contact with Advantage and the garages involved. The onus appears to have been on Miss 
H to persist in ensuring the repairs were completed properly. This clearly caused her 
inconvenience and I acknowledge her comments that this resulted in distress and impacted 
on her health. 
In these circumstances I think it was fair for Advantage to offer compensation. But having 
given careful thought to this, I dont think its offer of £435 compensation was unreasonable. 
Miss H was provided with a replacement car at the times her car was being repaired. So, Im 
satisfied she wasnt inconvenienced from a lack of available transport. By no means is my 
intention to diminish the impact all of this had on Miss H. But I think £435 compensation is 
fair to acknowledge Advantages poor handling of her claim and the impact this had on her. 
So, I cant reasonably ask Advantage to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman