DRN-3862153
The complaint
Mr & Mrs H are unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited hadnt complied with legal 
requirements regarding the electrics linked to their boiler and that British Gas serviced the 
equipment for several years and never resolved the problem, leaving them in danger. This is 
under the British Gas HomeCare home emergency policy.
Mr and Mrs H want compensation for living with the danger, the worry, and the stress this 
caused them when they found out and the delays in putting matters right.
What happened
The issue as far as Mr and Mrs H are concerned wasnt about the fitting of the boiler. 
Although I accept that is where the problem stems from. Mr and Mrs Hs issue is that year on 
year BG have come back and carried out annual health checks under the policy. Over the 
years BG havent referred to any issues or faults. It was only when Mr and Mrs H had a 
kitchen leak the problem was uncovered.
Mr and Mrs Hs own electrician found that even after the electrical system had been turned 
off the boiler electrics were still live. The electrician said this shouldnt be possible and the 
boiler shouldnt have been fitted in this way as it was non-compliant with regulations.
At this stage Mr and Mrs H were very concerned and had to turn off the system frequently 
and go without heating until BG were able to put it right. They want BG to compensate them 
for the trauma they suffered when they found out about the problem, the danger BG had left 
them exposed to over several years and the delay they suffered without heating until it was 
put right. Unhappy with BG Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She accepted that Mr and Mrs H were very worried 
when their electrician explained what the problem was and the potential danger. However, 
she also pointed out that even though Mr and Mrs Hs worry was real she could only make 
an award for an actual loss rather than a potential loss that didnt occur. Our investigator 
didnt think the delay in putting the matter right was unreasonable either. But she did think 
BG should pay compensation for the poor service, the inconvenience they suffered and 
having to go without heating due to the non-compliant system until it was put right. She said 
BG should pay Mr and Mrs H £300.
BG disputed it had ever known about this element of the complaint and Mr and Mrs H felt the 
award was too low. So, the complaint was passed on for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was disappointing for BG to initially say it was unaware of this complaint. As this case 
needed a jurisdiction decision before the merits could be considered and it was pointed out 
to BG that emails discussions with Mr and Mrs H were headed RE: Electricity, dangerous 
fault and within the body of the emails Mr and Mrs H referred to the danger you left us in 
and similar comments so I dont accept, especially at such a late stage that BG didnt know 
Mr and Mrs H were upset about this. I think it has been part of their dissatisfaction from the 
start. BG may have focussed on something else or another element of their complaint but 
that doesnt change that Mr and Mrs H clearly brought it up and it was part of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs H said they had been BG customers for more than 40 years. They said they 
could have had cheaper policies elsewhere but had stuck with BG as they felt they would be 
safe and secure with such a major brand as BG. Mr and Mrs H said, To learn, by accident, 
we could have been injured or worse for nearly 4 years since our boiler was fitted has left us 
devastated and let down. I understand their point. Its clear from what they said that 
Mr and Mrs H had a HomeCare policy for peace of mind, to make sure their equipment was 
running safely and correctly  and as far as this situation showed the policy and BG didnt 
deliver on that over a period of years.
The electrician who found the issue noticed the neutral wire for the boiler had been borrowed 
from another socket to service the boiler. This was done by BG. Mr and Mrs H contacted BG 
to get the problem resolved.
Although I accept Mr and Mrs Hs point that they were worried about what could have 
happened its clear that nothing did and the system was put right (once the issue had been 
found) within a reasonable time frame. Although its clear that Mr and Mrs H did have a period during the winter where they were unable to use their heating properly for a short 
period.
It doesnt appear to me that the electrician who uncovered the problem was any better 
qualified than anyone from BG who had serviced the boiler for several years and not dealt 
with the system being non-compliant. In fact, he uncovered the issue on one visit and BG 
hadnt noticed it over several years. I dont think thats reasonable I think thats poor service 
from BG.
For the poor service, the problem being allowed to run over several years I think £300 
compensation for Mr and Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
In fairness to BG it has today reviewed the correspondence further, accepts it should have 
noticed this was part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and agrees that the £300 this service has 
asked it to pay is reasonable.
Putting things right
Pay Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman