DRN-3026238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say that they were misled into buying a timeshare product when they were on 
holiday in Florida in 2002. Because they paid for the timeshare in part using Mr Ms credit 
card, issued by National Westminster Bank Plc, they say that he has a claim against the 
bank in the same way as he has a claim against the timeshare business.
What happened
In October 2002 Mr and Mrs M were on holiday in Florida. They agreed to attend a 
timeshare presentation, at the end of which they agreed to buy a one-week timeshare of a 
property in Orlando, along with membership of an exchange programme. They paid a total of 
US$10,046.26 including insurance. It appears that most of the purchase price was paid with 
a loan from a US lender, but deposit payments of US$80 and US$160 were made on 16 and 
17 October 2002 respectively, using Mr Ms credit card. The card was also used to fund a 
further deposit in November 2002 and to make loan payments and a final settlement in 
February 2003. 
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs M contacted NatWest through a representative to say that the 
timeshare had been mis-sold. Their representative said that:
they had been subjected to pressured sales tactics; 
they were told the timeshare was an investment; and 
they were told the accommodation available through the exchange scheme was of a 
high standard and was widely available.   
Mr and Mrs M said that none of these statements had turned out to be true.
Because Mr M had used his credit card to pay, at least in part, for the timeshare, his 
representatives said that the bank was liable to him in the same way the seller of the 
timeshare would be.   
NatWest did not accept the claim. It said that, as more than six years had passed since the 
purchase, any claim was brought outside the relevant time limits  namely, six years  in the 
Limitation Act 1980. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. He agreed that claims against the seller of the timeshare were likely to be out of time 
and did not consider that the circumstances of the sale meant that the credit card agreement 
created an unfair relationship between NatWest and Mr M. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives did not accept the investigators initial conclusions and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I noted that, since the relevant payment had 
been made using Mr Ms credit card, only he was eligible to refer the complaint to this 
service. And I explained that references in my provisional decision to Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative were to the representative they had instructed at the relevant time. I 
continued:
Contractual arrangements
The documentation from October 2002 indicates that the timeshare product that Mr and Mrs 
bought was sold by Westgate Blue Tree Orlando Limited, a company registered in Florida, 
but with links to Texas. The contract was governed by the laws of Florida.
The purchase was funded in part by a loan from another Florida company, Central Florida 
Investments Inc. That company also took a mortgage of Mr and Mrs Ms interest in the 
timeshare. 
Mr M made credit card payments to both Westgate Blue Tree and to Central Florida 
Investments. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act negotiations conducted by a supplier in relation 
to a transaction financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement are deemed to be 
conducted by the seller as agent for the creditor. In this case, I believe that Westgate Blue 
Tree was the supplier and that the use of Mr Ms credit card means that the transaction 
was financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. That means that Westgate Blue 
Trees statements are to be taken to be statements of the bank.      
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied in this case that lending provided by the bank (in the form of the credit card) in 
part financed the purchase of the timeshare. The arrangements under which Westgate Blue 
Tree was able to take credit card payments were pre-existing arrangements with NatWest, 
such that section 75(1) might apply. 
I must therefore consider Mr Ms argument that he has a claim against Westgate Blue Tree. 
Time limits and misrepresentation 
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other 
party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs M into 
buying the timeshare were made on or before 17 October 2002, more than 16 years before 
they raised any claim with the bank.  Were the timeshare contract subject to English law, therefore, its very likely that I would 
conclude that any misrepresentation claim against Westgate Blue Tree would probably fail 
and that the banks response to the claim was therefore reasonable. 
As I have said, however, the sale contract here was governed by the laws of Florida. Any 
claim under section 75 therefore depends on Mr M having a valid claim against Westgate 
Blue Tree under those laws. 
Most common law jurisdictions place time limits on the bringing of civil claims  as indeed do 
the Financial Ombudsman Services rules. Given the time that has passed since Mr and Mrs 
M bought their timeshare, I think it likely that Florida law, like English law, would prevent 
them from bringing a claim against Westgate Blue Tree in connection with events from the 
time of sale. 
In the circumstances, I think that the banks response to the claim was reasonable, based as 
it was on the delay in bringing any claim. 
Mr Ms representatives have not provided any evidence of Florida law. In particular, they 
have not shown that any misleading statements made at the time of sale would give rise to a 
claim against Westgate Blue Tree. I do note however that Mr and Mrs M signed an 
acknowledgment which included statements that:
the printed materials they had received were the only representations they had relied on 
in making the purchase;
they had bought the timeshare for their own use and not as an investment;
they understood that Interval International and not the seller was responsible for the 
exchange programme; and
maintenance fees might increase. 
So, even if Mr and Mrs M were able to bring a claim within any relevant time limits, it seems 
likely that Westgate Blue Tree would seek to argue that these statements provided a 
defence those claims. 
Section 140A claims
In his assessment of the complaint, our investigator considered as well whether sections 
140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act might apply here.
Under section 140A and section 140B a court has the power to consider whether a credit 
agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders in 
respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and refunding 
payments. 
In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair agreement, a court can take into 
account any connected transaction. That would include in this case the timeshare sale. I am 
not persuaded however that there is anything about the sale here that would lead me to think 
a court would make an order under section 140A. In saying that, I have in mind the fairly 
general nature of the allegations against the seller, the delay in bringing those allegations 
and the fact that the credit card agreement was in place well before the timeshare was 
purchased and that Mr M has continued to use it afterwards.  Conclusions 
In summary, therefore, I am satisfied that sections 56 and 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 
could apply in this case. I think it likely however that a court applying English law would 
conclude that any claim against the supplier would now be out of time. I am not persuaded 
that a court applying Florida law would reach a different conclusion. Even if it did, I have 
seen no evidence to show that a claim would be successful. 
I think it unlikely that a court would conclude that the credit card agreement between the 
bank and Mr A created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act. 
I concluded, provisionally, that the banks response to Mr Ms claim was reasonable and that 
I was not minded to uphold his complaint. 
NatWest did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr M acknowledged receipt but had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my view of Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman