DRN-2309870
The complaint
Miss S complains that Black Horse Limited were irresponsible in approving a hire purchase 
agreement for her as she says it was unaffordable. 
What happened
In May 2017, Miss S acquired a new car which was financed by a hire purchase agreement 
from Black Horse. The cash price of the car was around £33,500. Miss S paid a £4,000 
deposit, with interest the total repayable under the agreement was around £40,700. The 
monthly repayments were around £515 spread over 47 months, with a final optional balloon 
payment of £12,480.
From September 2017, Miss S experienced repayment difficulty and on several occasions 
had to cancel her usual direct debit payment. She was able to make manual payments, but 
these were often several weeks late. Miss S complained to Black Horse in July 2019 saying 
the agreement was unaffordable to her and the lending shouldnt have been approved. 
Black Horse didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it had carried out appropriate 
affordability checks at the point of application. It said that Miss S had declared her monthly 
income to be around £1,400 and that she was living at home with her parents with minimal 
monthly expenditure. It said it also completed a credit check and established that Miss S had 
enough disposable income each month to meet her existing credit commitments as well as 
the new hire purchase agreement.
Miss S referred her complaint to our service. She also didnt feel Black Horse had treated 
her fairly when she told them she was suffering financial difficulty. She said she wanted them 
to reduce her monthly repayments, but the options Black Horse had offered her werent fair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Black Horse hadnt 
carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, however, had it done so he 
said it was likely to have found that Miss S could afford the repayments. For that reason, he 
didnt think Black Horse had made an unfair lending decision. Lastly, he thought Black Horse 
had responded promptly and fairly to Miss S when she told them about her financial 
difficulty. 
Miss S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules 
and guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss S has been disadvantaged in any way by Black Horses actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Black Horse were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss S ability to sustainably repay the hire purchase 
agreement. This is often referred to as an affordability check and this check had to be 
borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be concerned with whether Miss S could 
sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her specific circumstances), rather than how 
statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the risk posed to Black Horse as the lender, 
or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
My starting point is that at around £40,000 Black Horse were proposing to provide a 
significant amount of credit to Miss S. On top of that, the monthly commitments were 
relatively high at around £515 over a four year term. Given the size and duration of the 
borrowing, I would expect any borrower-focussed assessment of affordability to have been 
thorough. 
Black Horse says it asked Miss S for details of her employment and living status. It says 
Miss S declared she was working for herself and earning £20,000 per year (£1,397 monthly) 
and that she lived at home with her parents. Black Horse says it verified her income using a 
service provided by one of the credit reference agencies. Black Horse says this process 
reviewed her current account turnover and established her declared income was likely to be 
accurate.
In addition, Black Horse completed a credit check which it says showed Miss S had £353 in 
existing monthly credit commitments elsewhere. It said that based on her having only a small 
amount of other regular expenditure (£27 per month) the hire purchase agreement was affordable to her. However, I dont think this was enough to adequately assess whether the 
agreement was affordable or sustainable for Miss S. 
I say this because the credit Black Horse was proposing to provide was double the amount 
of her annual salary. This was therefore a significant and relatively long term commitment for 
Miss S to undertake. Further, Black Horse could see that she already had outstanding credit 
elsewhere amounting to nearly £12,000.
Black Horse has said it didnt ask Miss S about her other commitments but estimated that 
shed have £27 per month in living expenses. Although she lived at home with her parents, 
I dont think it was reasonable to conclude her living expenses would be limited to just £27 
per month. After all she would at the very least be likely to need to pay for her new car 
insurance costs, road tax and ongoing maintenance as well as food and other essential 
items. 
Overall a significant proportion of her monthly income would be going towards paying 
various credit commitments and I dont think Black Horse did enough to establish that she 
had enough disposable income to sustainably afford the borrowing. For this reason I dont 
think Black Horse completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Miss S.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
Ive gone onto consider what Black Horse would likely have found out had it carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. I dont know what checks Black Horse would have 
carried out, but in the absence of anything else Ive reviewed a copy of Miss S credit file and 
copies of her bank statements to get an understanding of what her circumstances were at 
the time the lending was approved. 
Im not suggesting Black Horse ought to have reviewed Miss S bank statements as part of 
the application process, but I think the information contained within them can be used as a 
reasonable indicator of the type of information Black Horse would have likely discovered had 
it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Miss S had her own business and she was receiving a regular income from this. She had 
declared an income of £20,000 per year on her application  or around £1,400 per month. 
But on reviewing her bank statements it appears her income was greater than this and was 
on average around £2,000 per month. 
I can see Miss S did have a number of other commitments that she was regularly paying 
towards. These included some credit facilities such as credit cards and catalogue accounts, 
although shes told us one of the credit cards was closed a few months before she took out 
the hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. She also had regular direct debit payments 
for mobile phone bills, insurances, utility bills and various memberships. I can see she also 
had an existing car finance agreement which came to an end prior to the agreement with 
Black Horse. 
Overall it appears Miss S ongoing committed monthly expenditure was around £1,000, 
taking into account all of her regular monthly payments as well as her costs for food and 
other essentials. Once the monthly payment for the Black Horse hire purchase agreement is 
taken into account, it seems Miss S still had between £400 and £500 in disposable income 
each month.So I think had Black Horse carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think its likely 
it would have concluded that Miss S could afford the monthly repayments. I therefore dont 
think they made an unfair lending decision. 
Miss S says that another finance provider declined her application just before Black Horse 
accepted it. While Ive seen that did happen, that doesnt mean that Black Horse made an 
unfair lending decision. Each lender will have their own set criteria around who they wish to 
lend to and for what reason. Ive reviewed whether Black Horse acted fairly or not in lending 
to Miss S. Having done so Im satisfied they did, albeit I dont think they conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks prior to doing so. 
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss S says Black Horse treated her unfairly when she was in financial difficulty and reached 
out for assistance. She says she wanted Black Horse to accept reduced monthly payments 
to make things more manageable for her. I can see Black Horse did offer to accept reduced 
payments, but Miss S didnt want to do that. She says this is because Black Horse told her it 
would impact her credit file. She doesnt think that was fair. 
While I understand why Miss S wouldnt want her credit file impacted, I dont think 
Black Horse acted unfairly in telling her what would happen if she made reduced payments. 
Lenders have a duty to report accurate, true and fair information to credit reference 
agencies. If Miss S was to pay less than the contractual payment she agreed to at the 
outset, I think in the circumstances of this case it would have been accurate, true and fair to 
record that she had failed to meet her regular commitment.
I can see Black Horse also asked Miss S to fill in an income and expenditure form to 
establish what she could afford and what other steps Black Horse could take to assist. I cant 
see that Miss S ever provided Black Horse with that information. Further, Black Horse 
discussed termination options with her, as Id expect them to, such as voluntary termination 
which would have capped her liability under the agreement. I understand why Miss S didnt 
wish to exercise her right to voluntary termination, but I dont think it was unreasonable or 
unfair of Black Horse to offer that option as a solution to her financial difficulty. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Black Horse treated Miss S unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman