DRN-3618618
The complaint
Mr D says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has failed to provide an adequate and reasonable means 
of communication. He says this has caused him both financial detriment and stress.  
What happened
Mr D is unhappy that Bank of Ireland uses an automated telephony system as he wants to 
speak directly to an agent. When he complained to the bank it explained that it does this so it 
can direct its customers calls to the right part of the bank. It apologised if Mr D found the 
telephony system difficult to use, or felt it was not suitable. It said although there were no 
current plans to change the system, it would feedback his comments to the relevant part of 
the bank. It later sent him details of the fastest way to bypass some parts of the automated 
menu and reach an agent. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said it was not our role to review the 
banks telephony system. We look at the individual circumstances of a complaint to decide if 
the bank has made an error and if so what it needs to do to put things right. In this case 
there is no evidence of a bank error. And he felt the bank had tried to help by advising Mr D 
how to bypass some of the automated options.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr D asked for an ombudsmans review. He said we have 
not investigated his complaint properly. He asked how we could do so without interviewing 
him in person, and added that had we done so we would be in no doubt about the 
detriments, both potential and real, that BoIs failure to provide adequate and reasonable 
means of communication can/does cause. He challenged the services impartiality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why but first want to 
address his comment about bias. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act 
on behalf of either consumers or financial businesses - theres no benefit for us to find in 
favour of one party over the other.
How the Bank of Ireland opts to answer calls from all its customers is not something we have 
the power to change. It is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) to 
oversee a financial organisations systems, policies and processes. We are here to look at 
whether a bank has made an error that has impacted its customer, and if it has to decide 
how that should be put right.
In this case there is no evidence of bank error. Rather, the banks telephony system does 
not work for Mr D. He wants to be able to call an agent directly, but he is using the same 
system as all other customers. His experience, that he sees as problematic, is the same for 
all bank customers. 
Mr D has referenced the detriment the automated system has caused him, but as there is no 
evidence the bank has made a mistake, I need ask no further questions about this. I would 
need to have found a bank failing to consider the impact on Mr D. 
So I am not persuaded it is necessary to interview Mr D as he would like. And the rules we 
must follow, specifically DISP 3.5.8, allow for the ombudsman to decide the issues evidence 
is needed on and whether it should be oral or written. Mr D was given a final opportunity in 
the investigators email of 28 July 2022 to submit any further comments by 11 August 2022.
I appreciate the banks telephony system seems to cause him inconvenience and frustration, 
but I think it has tried to be helpful by providing details of the fastest route to an agent and as 
explained above I do not have the power to instruct it to change its system.
It follows I am not asking Bank of Ireland to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman