DRN-3813274
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt done enough to help 
him try to recover the cost of a ferry he couldnt travel on because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr H booked to travel on a return ferry crossing between the UK and 
France with a supplier Ill call C, departing in May 2020 and returning in June 2020. He paid 
£166 for the return crossing. 
Mr H says that at the time of his outward journey it would have been unlawful for him to 
travel to France by virtue of restrictions in place by the French government at that time. As a 
result, Mr H didnt travel.
 
Mr H approached C to ask it for a refund, but it told him it wasnt offering refunds on 
economy tickets in respect of cancelled trips. It instead offered to provide credit on the 
booking to use at a future date.  
Mr H contacted Nationwide. It appears Mr H also had travel insurance provided as part of his 
banking service with Nationwide, and it seems he was initially passed between the disputes 
and insurance teams. Nationwide gave Mr H the contact details for the travel insurance 
providers and passed his travel insurance claim on to it. 
In relation to Mr Hs request for Nationwide to refund his money under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) or chargeback, Nationwide took the initial view that a Section 
75 claim would be unsuccessful and so didnt pass that on the relevant team. It also didnt 
consider a chargeback would likely be successful so didnt raise one. 
In relation to a claim under Mr Hs travel insurance, this was declined, and Mr H was referred 
back to his credit card provider to make a claim. 
Mr H complained about how Nationwide had handled things. It accepted that its 
communication with Mr H could have been better and he had been passed between 
departments. But it said, it a chargeback or Section 75 claim wouldnt have been successful 
in these circumstances and so it had been right to decline Mr Hs claim for a refund. In total, 
it awarded him £50 in compensation for the way it handled things. 
Unhappy with Nationwides stance, Mr H complained to this service. He said that Nationwide 
was refusing to consider whether he had a valid claim for a refund under Section 75. He said 
that given the pandemic and in light of advice from the Competitions and Marketing 
Authority, he was entitled to a refund.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and decided that Nationwide had acted 
reasonably when it had declined to raise a chargeback. She also felt that any claim under 
Section 75 would be unsuccessful.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
reiterated that at the time of his outward journey it would have been unlawful for him to travel 
to France by virtue of restrictions in place by the French government. He said he wouldnt 
have been able to complete the required attestations as to the reason for his travel and so 
would have been denied boarding either before he boarded the ship or when he arrived at 
the French border. He said as per the Competitions and Marketing Authority, this was a 
frustrated contract and he was entitled to a refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled. In the early days of the 
pandemic, it seems there were some poor practices by some suppliers, who were not 
refunding customers when they should have. In many instances, where the supplier hadnt 
refunded the cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for 
a refund and commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, 
when appropriate. 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated. 
Here, I am looking at the actions of the bank and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Mr Hs request for help in getting his money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, as well as 
relevant law, rules/guidance and good industry practice.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I dont think, looking at the relevant 
rules and obligations on Nationwide, that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill 
explain in more detail why I think that is the case. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or the bank can assess whether its customer has 
a valid claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Ill look at each of 
these in turn.
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr H made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some prosect 
of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for the 
bank to raise a chargeback. 
There are grounds/dispute conditions set by the relevant card scheme and if these are not 
met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. Having looked at the relevant scheme chargeback 
rules, there were two possible grounds/dispute conditions under which Nationwide could 
have raised a chargeback in these circumstances: where services had not been received 
and/or where services had been cancelled.It seems from the information provided by Mr H to Nationwide that both his outbound and 
return crossing went ahead, but that he could not travel due to restrictions in place at the 
time.  
At the time that it considered whether a valid chargeback route existed for Mr H, it seems 
Nationwide thought Mr H had cancelled the booking. Mr H said he didnt cancel the booking 
but rather explained to C that he was unable to travel because of the situation with Covid-19.
However, regardless of which scenario were to apply - whether Mr H didnt travel, or he 
cancelled the service - I dont think either would have given rise to a successful chargeback 
for Mr H. Ill explain why. 
Looking at the chargeback scheme rules and Covid-19 guidance, I dont think a chargeback 
could have successfully been pursued under the dispute condition where a service had not 
been provided as Ive not seen anything that suggests the crossing didnt go ahead. 
I acknowledge what Mr H has said about there being restrictions in place that meant he 
couldnt lawfully have travelled and would have been denied boarding, but C it seems was 
providing the service to its passengers. Mindful of the limitations of the chargeback scheme, 
I dont think the chargeback process would have resulted in a successful outcome for Mr H 
in circumstances where the travel could not go ahead because of government restrictions on 
him personally as a passenger. 
I have also considered whether the other relevant chargeback ground where services are 
cancelled might have been a route to a refund that Nationwide could have explored. This 
allows for a dispute to be raised where a refund has not been paid in line with the 
cancellation policy. However, having looked at the terms and conditions and the non-
refundable nature of the booking, made clear at the time of booking, I dont think a 
chargeback would have been successful under this dispute code either. Moreover, Mr H has 
confirmed he didnt actually cancel the booking.
So looking at what happened in Mr Hs case, the terms and conditions of the booking, the 
relevant refund/cancellation policy and considering these carefully alongside the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and guidance, it seems unlikely a chargeback could have been 
successfully raised on Mr Hs behalf. So, I dont think Nationwide was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it didnt raise one. 
Section 75 
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
So, given Mr Hs complaint, for me to find that Nationwide should have refunded the cost of 
the ferry to him, Id need to be satisfied that there was a breach of contract by C. 
The legal position where a service can legally go ahead, but a particular consumer cant take 
up the service because of government guidance/restrictions on travel, is complicated. It 
could arguably be said that in these circumstances, as Mr H suggests, the contract had been 
frustrated (effectively impossible to perform) and as such he was entitled to a refund. 
But even if that were the case, here I am looking at the liability of the bank under Section 75 
and this is limited to when a contract has been breached or misrepresented. So, although it 
might be possible to argue that the contract was frustrated, this would not amount to a 
breach of contract. I have looked carefully at what has happened here, alongside the relevant terms and 
conditions and I cannot see evidence of a breach of contract. C provided the service as it 
had contracted to do. The booking was, it seems, non-refundable and I cannot see that the 
cancellation policy gave rise to a refund in these circumstances. 
Looking at what has happened here, I am not persuaded that there has been a breach of 
contract by C. 
I really do sympathise with Mr H. He was merely following government restrictions on travel 
and now he finds himself out of pocket. It may be that he has an action against the supplier 
through the courts, but that is far from clear and something Mr H may wish to take advice on. 
But as I set out above, here I am looking at the obligations of Nationwide and as explained, I 
dont think it needed to do more for Mr H. Therefore, I dont think it was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that Nationwide does not need 
to do anything further about Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman