DRN-3079766
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted unfairly in limiting the 
amount it would pay their chosen solicitor when they made a claim on a legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mrs M and Mr M are represented by a solicitor. Where I refer in this decision to Mrs M and 
Mr M, this includes their solicitor.
Where I refer in the decision to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and representatives 
acting on their behalf in administering claims and complaint handling.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M hold legal expenses insurance provided by Great Lakes. They made a 
claim on the policy in relation to an employment dispute. They indicated that they would 
prefer to use their own solicitor in the legal proceedings. Great Lakes said that if they did so, 
it would only pay £125 + VAT per hour for the solicitors services, in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
Mrs M and Mr M complained to Great Lakes. They said the rate that Great Lakes was 
offering to pay was unreasonable and restricted their freedom to choose their preferred 
solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to look at the policy terms and conditions. The relevant condition for 
this complaint states:
If you do select to appoint your own non-panel solicitor, this insurance will not cover 
expenses over and above the costs that our panel would charge in equivalent 
circumstances. For your information, this means that we would take into account the 
seriousness of the claim and the location and class of non-panel solicitor that you choose. 
The hourly rate is currently set at £125 + VAT. We reserve the right to assess each case on 
its merits, and may agree to pay additional fees if we feel the situation warrants it. This will 
remain entirely at our discretion.
What this means in practice is that if a policyholder elects to use their preferred solicitor, as 
opposed to one of Great Lakes panel solicitors, then the most Great Lakes will pay the 
preferred solicitor is £125 + VAT per hour, except in exceptional circumstances and at Great 
Lakes discretion.
Its this condition of the policy that Great Lakes relies on in saying it would only pay £125 + 
VAT per hour to Mrs M and Mr Ms preferred solicitor. Mrs M and Mr M say this is unfair as 
the rate charged by their preferred solicitor is more than this. They say the complexity of 
their case, and the experience required of the solicitor, as well as guidance from HM Courts 
and Tribunals Service (HMCTS) around rates, mean that Great Lakes should pay a higher 
rate.
Ill address the issue around the HMCTS rates first. Im aware that the rate being offered by 
Great Lakes is less than this. But this doesnt mean that its unfair for Great Lakes to pay a 
lower rate to a non-panel solicitor. The policy condition outlines the rate it pays its panel 
solicitors. Great Lakes is likely to have agreements with the panel solicitors which set these 
rates, which likely wouldnt be available to a private client. 
When a non-panel solicitor is appointed, I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to limit what it 
pays to what it would have paid a panel solicitor, provide that it offers to have a panel 
solicitor represent the policyholder, and that it clearly explains the limits of what it will pay. 
There doesnt seem to be a dispute here that it was Mrs M and Mr Ms choice to use their 
preferred solicitor, rather than a panel solicitor, and that Great Lakes informed them of the 
rate it would pay a non-panel solicitor.
Mrs M and Mr M say that Great Lakes should have exercised its discretion to increase the 
amount it paid their preferred solicitor, because of the complexities and issues raised by their 
case. They say that the higher rate being charged by their preferred solicitor is appropriate 
because of these complexities. Its suggested that the lower rate offered by Great lakes 
means that a panel solicitor wouldnt be able to properly address the matter. 
I dont agree this is the case. While the rate is lower than their preferred solicitors, this isnt 
necessarily a sign that a panel solicitor would not be able to properly address the matter  as 
Ive said, the rate indicated  are the result of agreements between Great Lakes and the 
panel solicitors, rather than an indicator of what the panel solicitor would charge a private 
client for the same services. 
It appears that from the outset of the claim, Mrs M and Mr Ms preference was for their own 
solicitor to represent them, and so the case hasnt been reviewed by panel solicitors to 
assess whether they can properly deal with the issues raised. I dont think its reasonable to 
ask Great Lakes to increase the amount it pays where its panel solicitors havent been able 
to comment on whether they could deal with Mrs M and Mr Ms claim. Great Lakes position 
is that it hasnt been provided with evidence to show that Mrs M and Mr Ms case was so 
complex or raised matters which required such specialist knowledge that none of its panel 
solicitors could deal with the matter. Im not persuaded based on what Ive seen that Mrs M 
and Mr have demonstrated that there are such complex matters, or specialist areas of law 
raised that only their preferred solicitors can deal with their case. 
Ive also considered whether, in limiting the amount it pays, Great Lakes have restricted Mrs 
M and Mr Ms freedom to choose who represents them. Im not persuaded it has. The policy 
terms and conditions dont say that a policyholder must use a panel solicitor. The terms and 
conditions simply limit the amount Great Lakes will pay a non-panel solicitor to the same 
amount it would pay one of its panel. This doesnt restrict freedom to choose representation, 
it merely limits the liability of the insurer.
Im aware also that Mrs M and Mr M have raised queries around whether these terms and 
conditions were highlighted to them during the sale of the policy, and the suitability of the 
policy for their needs. Great Lakes is the insurer, so Mrs M and Mr M would need direct 
these queries to the representative who sold the policy.
My final decisionIts my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman