DRN-4526693
The complaint
Ms M has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD (PEX). She isnt happy that it 
auto renewed her roadside assistance policy and failed to cancel it upon request. 
What happened
Ms M had a roadside assistance policy through PEX which it looked to auto renew in 
January 2022 a few days before the actual date the policy was due to renew. As soon as Ms 
M was aware that the policy had auto renewed she raised a complaint with PEX about this 
as she didnt want the policy. As the complaint wasnt acknowledged Ms M raised a charge 
back through her credit card which wasnt disputed by PEX. 
In May 2022 Ms M was contacted by a debt collection agency who told her they were 
collecting the debt on behalf of PEX. So Ms M complained again to PEX about this but it 
didnt take any action or respond. And while chasing a response to her complaint Ms M 
received notification that a County Court Judgement (CCJ) had been obtained, it transpired 
that the relevant paperwork had been sent to a previous address of Ms Ms. As Ms M wasnt 
happy about all of this she complained to this Service. And while the complaint was ongoing 
Ms M managed to get the CCJ set aside, and the court proceedings stayed.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M and upheld her complaint. Although she 
accepted that the auto renewal process was highlighted to Ms M, she thought that PEX 
shouldve acknowledged and considered Ms Ms complaint in the first instance. Plus, it 
should have considered her request for cancellation and subsequent chargeback before any 
debt collection agency referral. And she highlighted that PEX gave an incorrect address to 
the debt collection agency (Ms Ms old address) which clearly impacted things here. So she 
thought PEX should cease collection of all outstanding sums and pay Ms M £150 
compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience caused. 
As PEX didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement that the complaint should be upheld. I know PEX feel that 
it hasnt done anything wrong here, but I agree that it didnt handle Ms Ms request to stop 
the auto renewal process very well and has referred her to a debt collection company when 
it shouldve looked to communicate with her about the auto renewal. But I feel the level of 
compensation should be increased to £500 and I have communicated this to both sides 
before making this decision.
Although I can understand PEXs position about the case and I accept that its renewal 
process was made reasonably clear to Ms M. But once Ms M realised the policy was being 
automatically renewed, a few days before the policy was even due to renew, I think she 
made it clear that she wanted to cancel the policy. And I think PEX shouldve engaged with 
Ms M when she raised the fact that she didnt want the policy and she subsequently 
complained.
PEX failed to respond or acknowledge her complaint and I see no reason why not. So, Ms M 
arranged a charge back with her account provider which PEX didnt dispute so she thought 
that was the end of the matter. Given the fact that PEX didnt correspond with Ms M or really 
engage with her complaint I can understand her position.
Instead PEX sent the relatively small debt to a debt collection agency who contacted Ms M 
direct which must have been very worrying for her. And when Ms M contacted PEX again 
this wasnt actioned either and then she found out she had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
against her in respect of the debt. It transpired that all the paperwork to do with the CCJ had 
been sent to a previous address of Ms Ms when she clearly updated this with PEX. 
I understand that PEX has said that the debt collection company should take responsibility 
for the incorrect address issue and has outlined that the documentation was mainly sent 
electronically. But I would expect PEX to have ensured these details were correctly referred 
and I find it surprising that it took these steps (referring the matter to the debt collection 
agency) in any event in this instance. I say this as it was clear that Ms M was trying to 
explain her position and complain so to take the steps PEX took, for a small outstanding 
amount when the consumer was trying to engage with it, doesnt feel fair or reasonable.
Fortunately, while the matter has been with this Service Ms M has managed to get the CCJ 
set aside and as I understand it the proceedings have been stayed. 
Given all of this, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld. I accept 
that the renewal process was reasonably clear. But once PEX sent her the cancellation link 
Ms M complained about the potential cancellation charge and PEX should have engaged 
with Ms M about this rather than simply refer the matter to a debt collection agency. Our 
investigator suggested PEX shouldve replied to the complaint and waived the cancellation 
fee, allowing her to cancel the policy. Or it should have at the very least responded to the 
complaint and advised that she would have to pay the fee to cancel, which would have 
allowed her to bring her complaint to this Service. 
I agree with this, but I feel the level of compensation should be increased here. It is fortunate 
that Ms M has been able to get the CCJ set aside and a stay of proceedings. However, it 
must have been very worrying to have faced the possibility of having a CCJ against her 
name and being chased by a debt collection agency when PEX should have responded to 
her complaint. So, I think PEX should pay Ms M £500 compensation as opposed to £150 for 
the clear stress and worry this has caused her and the delay in dealing with her complaint. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require POLICY 
EXCESS INSURE LTD (PEX) to waive the small cancellation fee and stop pursuing Ms M 
for the outstanding debt. And pay Ms M £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman