DRN-2817737
The complaint
 Mr H complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading
as Audi Financial Services has supplied him with a car of unsatisfactory quality. He asks to 
reject it.
 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
Mr H is represented in his complaint by a third party but for ease I will refer to Mr H 
throughout my decision.
Mr H took receipt of a brand-new car on 31 January 2019 financed by VWFS.
He began experiencing problems with the car almost immediately and the car was returned 
to the dealership for investigation on 7 February 2019. It conformed the car had been 
repaired and Mr H collected the car on 13 February 2019.
On 21 February 2019, the dealership collected the car as it had broken down again. The 
dealership couldnt replicate the fault and suggested Mr H use the spare key and it would 
order a new key if he experienced and further problems.
On 31 March 2019, Mr H called out breakdown recovery as the car wouldnt open, lock or 
start. The breakdown recovery managed to get the car started but no-fault codes appeared.
Mr H continued to experience problems with the keys with eventually the keys being 
replaced and recoded at no cost to Mr H.
On 3 August 2019, Mr H emailed the dealership with video footage to show neither key was 
working again, and he asked to reject the car. The dealership asked him to bring the car in 
for further diagnostics, but Mr H remained of the view he had no confidence in the car and 
wanted to reject it.
In November 2019, Mr Hs third-party representatives contacted VWFS again requesting to 
reject the car. After initially requesting an authority form to liase with the third-party 
representatives, no further correspondence was received.
On 23 December 2019, Mr H called out VW Roadside Assist who confirmed the key wasnt 
working again, the car couldnt be unlocked, and the driver door was implausible.
In January 2020, VWFS raised the issue as a complaint. 
In its final response, dated 9 April 2020, VWFS said although it partially upheld the complaint 
it didnt agree to a rejection of the car but would allow a preferential purchase of another 
car.
Dissatisfied Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. In his first view he felt Mr H had accepted the 
repairs and he hadnt seen any evidence of any issues since the repairs were carried out.
Mr H provided further evidence in the form of video footage and a breakdown report dated 
23 December 2019. VW Roadside Assist confirmed the key wasnt working again, the car 
couldnt be unlocked, and the driver door was implausible.
The investigator then issued a second view upholding Mr Hs complaint. He said he was now 
satisfied the repairs had failed and Mr H should be allowed to reject the car. He said Mr H 
has been inconvenienced by the number of times hed been left stranded and when the car 
had been in for repairs. He asked VWFS to:
 Arrange collection of the car at your cost;
 Terminate the agreement and remove it from Mr Hs credit file;
 Retain the payments made until January 2020, but refund the payments from this
date to Mr H  adding 8% simple interest;
 Refund Mr Hs deposit, adding 8% simple interest;
 Award the sum of £250 for the distress and inconvenience has caused.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings.
VWFS didnt. It said it hadnt seen any evidence the car wasnt driveable following the 
repairs and it didnt understand why it had been asked to refund the payments made by Mr H 
in 2020. It asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I considered what is fair and reasonable, I took regard of the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
VWFS is also the supplier of the goods (i.e. the car) under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. The CRA sets out some of the responsibilities 
of a supplier in relation to the quality of goods it supplies. The CRA is therefore also relevant 
law in this complaint. 
I explained the CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, 
it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would 
take into account might include things like the age of the car when supplied and when the 
issue that the consumer complains about first arose. 
VWFS supplied Mr H with a brand new, relatively expensive, prestigious car. In the 
circumstances, I said I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be higher than a second-hand, more road-worn car or even a cheaper new car. 
And that it could be used  free from defects  for a considerable period of time.
Mr H started to report a problem with the keys and the locking system within a week of 
obtaining the car. The issue has gone on ever since with the dealership having multiple attempts to repair the car, which have failed repeatedly. This culminated in a request from 
Mr H to reject the car in August 2019.
VWFS said it hadnt seen any evidence the car hadnt been driveable and as such didnt 
agree to allow Mr H to reject it. I explained, whether the car has been driveable isnt the test 
here. 
The relevant legislation says that if a fault arises in the first 6 months, its for the business to 
show that the fault wasnt present when the car was supplied. After 6 months its up to the 
consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The fault was reported within a 
week and the car was back in the dealership for repair within the same week. The fault has 
also persisted, and the car has been back and forth up to six times since. After the final 
repair, Mr H has provided further video evidence of the same fault and a breakdown report 
evidencing the same fault again. I said the relevant legislation allows one attempt at repair, 
Im persuaded the evidence shows the repair failed and as such Mr H should be allowed to 
reject the car.
This was also a brand-new vehicle and should have been fault free for a considerable period 
of time. So, in looking at what I consider fair and reasonable redress, I said Id taken into 
account the mileage Mr H has been able to undertake in this car, which amounts to 
approximately 6450 but also what I consider to be a great deal of inconvenience, trouble and 
upset. Having to go back and forth to the garage for repairs, being stranded as the car 
wouldnt start or the doors unlock and what should have been an enjoyable experience with 
a prestigious and expensive car has been seriously impaired.
For these reasons I said I intended to ask VWFS to:
 Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr H;
 Terminate the agreement and remove it from Mr Hs credit file;
 Retain the payments made until August 2019 (when he first asked to reject the car), but 
refund the payments from this date to Mr H  adding 8% simple interest;
 Refund Mr Hs deposit, adding 8% simple interest;
 Award the sum of £400 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they wished me to consider before 
reaching a final decision.
Both parties responded.
VWFS accepted my provisional findings.
Mr H accepted my provisional findings, but his representative asked me to consider 
refunding Mr Hs insurance and road tax costs in addition to the redress I intended to ask 
VWFS to make.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I thank both parties for their submissions and Ive looked at all the information afresh. I have 
further considered the request from Mr Hs representative for a refund of the insurance and 
road tax costs.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Both parties agree with my provisional findings, but Mr Hs representative asked me to 
consider his additional road tax and insurance costs.
I have look at the submissions regarding the road tax. There does seem to be a discrepancy 
in the information provided as one the one had Mr H says he kept it on a friends driveway, 
and it was SORN, whilst on the other he was paying the car tax monthly. So, If the car was 
SORN there wouldnt have been any road tax costs.
To some degree this is not hugely relevant as Mr H has also confirmed whilst the car was 
not used for large periods of time, he did use it occasionally and this is reflected in the 
mileage.
I accepted the usage was minimal but this would still require the car to be taxed and insured 
and so I cant fairly say the costs should be reimbursed. I have, however, taken into account 
the trouble and upset and sheer frustration Mr H must have felt to be paying for a car that he 
couldnt use, and this is reflected in the increased award for trouble and upset.
It follows that Im not persuaded to increase the redress from my provisional findings.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
 Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr H;
 Terminate the agreement and remove it from Mr Hs credit file;
 Retain the payments made until August 2019 (when he first asked to reject the car), but 
refund the payments from this date to Mr H  adding 8% simple interest;
 Refund Mr Hs deposit, adding 8% simple interest;
 Award the sum of £400 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman