DRN-3357268
The complaint
Miss D complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly sold a fridge 
insurance policy in her name to her tenant. Miss D says the policy was sold to her tenant 
without her permission, and that this is a breach of her data under GDPR.
Although another business was involved in this complaint, D&G  the insurer on the policy - 
have taken responsibility for it. So Ill only refer to D&G in my decision. 
What happened
Miss D said that her tenant was sold a D&G fridge insurance policy in her name. 
Miss D bought a new fridge for a property she rented out. Ahead of the planned delivery 
date, the company the fridge had been bought from called the tenant to discuss the delivery. 
During that call, they tried to sell her insurance cover for the fridge. 
Miss Ds tenants first name is similar to hers. And English isnt the tenants first language. 
But the fridge insurance policy was set up in Miss Ds name on 28 June 2021 after this call. 
Miss D received welcome documents for the policy. As she didnt know anything about this, 
she became concerned that her personal details had been leaked. She was concerned that 
her tenant had spoken to the same agent shed spoken to before she bought the fridge. She 
said this agent had tried very hard to sell her fridge insurance and that shed had to hang up 
on him and order the fridge online instead. Miss D was also very concerned that the agent 
had been able to use her bank details to set up the direct debit for the fridge insurance. So 
she complained to the company that had provided the fridge and sold the insurance policy. 
The policy was cancelled, with no payments ever made, on 29 July 2021.
The company that had sold the insurance policy replied to Miss Ds complaint. They 
confirmed that the agent wasnt the same agent Miss D had spoken to before. They said 
theyd listened to the call during which the policy had been sold. And said that the tenant had 
answered the security questions correctly. They felt that their agent had asked the 
necessary questions and had checked that the tenant had authority to set up the direct debit. 
And that their agent had acted within their privacy policy and in accordance with all relevant 
legislation.
D&G said that on 28 September 2021 they heard from the company that had sold the 
insurance about Miss Ds complaint. So they logged a complaint so they could investigate 
the issues. 
D&G issued their final response on 12 November 2021. They upheld the complaint. Theyd 
listened to the sales call. They said it was clear that the tenant didnt really understand the 
conversation, especially when the direct debit details were being discussed. They said that 
the agent shouldve asked for Miss Ds number. And shouldve contacted Miss D to confirm 
whether or not he should be speaking with her tenant about fridge insurance. D&G said that 
the policy had been cancelled. And that no direct debits were ever taken for the policy. They 
paid Miss D £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for any distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused.
I understand that the company that had sold the insurance policy also offered Miss D £50 
compensation. But that Miss D hasnt accepted this. 
Miss D brought her complaint to this service. She told us she was told that her tenant had 
tried to scam her. She said that when she thought that her tenant was trying to scam her this 
put a strain on the relationship and she started eviction proceedings. She wanted D&G to 
take responsibility for the mis-sale to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) deal with fining data breaches and the handling of 
consumer information. He didnt think that the agent broke GDPR as the tenant had 
answered all of the security questions correctly. He felt that the steps D&G had taken to put 
things right were fair and reasonable under the circumstances. This included the £50 
compensation theyd paid. And the other £50 the company that had sold the policy had 
offered to pay Miss D. He didnt think that it would be fair to hold D&G responsible for Miss 
Ds relationship with her tenant.  
Miss D didnt agree with our investigator.    
She expressed her hope that the ICO would uphold a data protection breach. She said that 
shed only received the £50 from D&G. And nothing so far from the company that sold the 
insurance policy. Miss D said she felt that the agent shouldve realised there was confusion. 
And that he shouldve acted differently after that. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Miss D. But Im 
satisfied that D&G took reasonable steps to put things right. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the sales call during which the fridge insurance policy was sold. There was 
some confusion on the call because the tenant's first language isn't English. And her first 
name is also similar to Miss Ds. 
I acknowledge that D&G have said that once we know about Miss Ds complaint, we listen to 
the sales call in a different way than if we didnt know about the complaint. They said that 
while they now agreed that some doubt could be cast on the agents actions, they werent 
persuaded that at the time of the call he wouldve enough reason to challenge the details 
and prevent the sale from being conducted.
D&G said that the agent asked for Miss D by her first name. And that the tenant identified 
herself as that person. But the tenant then said that her landlord had bought the fridge. The 
tenant also states that the email address the agent asked her to confirm is her landlords 
email address.
D&G said that Miss D had cancelled the direct debit instruction with her bank. They felt that 
this meant they could assume that the bank account and sort code given during the call were 
her details. And that this shows that the tenant mustve had access to these details in order for them to be able to set up the plan. 
I agree with D&G on this point. Miss Ds tenant mustve had access to her bank account 
details. If shed not had that information, the policy couldnt have been set up in Miss Ds 
name. 
I agree that the tenant did give an ambiguous response when asked if she was Miss D. And I 
also agree that the tenant did have Miss Ds bank account details. But I consider that there 
was enough information over the whole call for the agent to have worked out that he wasnt 
speaking to Miss D. But I dont think the agent disclosed any of Miss Ds personal 
information. Taking the whole call into account, Im not persuaded that the agent breached 
Miss Ds data under GDPR. This is because Miss Ds tenant did answer the agents security 
questions correctly. But I do consider that the agent shouldnt have continued to set up the 
policy during the call. I say this because Im satisfied there were enough issues with the call 
for him to have realised he might not be speaking to Miss D. 
As I consider that the policy shouldnt have been set up, I now need to look at what D&G has 
done to put things right. I note that the policy has been cancelled and that no premiums were 
ever taken. But I acknowledge that the incorrect set-up of the policy has caused Miss D 
several concerns. These include concern over whether Miss Ds tenant was trying to scam 
her. And whether shed been the victim of fraud. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss D has said on these issues. I acknowledge that her 
relationship with her tenant has deteriorated because of this complaint. And I understand 
that Miss D feels that the complaint could lead to the eviction of her tenant. But Im not 
persuaded that this means I should ask D&G to compensate Miss D for these issues. I say 
this because Ive seen no evidence that D&G told Miss D that her tenant was trying to scam 
her. And, as our investigator noted, as a service we cant look at what mightve happened. 
Instead we have to look at the actual impact the businesss mistakes had. For these 
reasons, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask D&G to pay Miss D additional 
compensation for these issues.
I also need to consider the distress and inconvenience D&Gs mistake has caused Miss D. 
Theyve paid her £50 to date. And shes also been offered £50 by the company who sold the 
policy. As the policy was cancelled without any premiums being taken, and as Miss Ds 
tenant did clearly have access to her bank details, I think this is reasonable compensation 
under the circumstances.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that D&G have already taken 
reasonable steps to put things right. While I acknowledge that the complaint has caused 
several concerns for Miss D, I dont uphold it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman