DRN-1680843
The complaint
Mr U complains that when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy following an 
accident, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly held him at fault for it.
What happened
Mr U told UKI that on 18 September 2019 hed stopped at a pedestrian crossing when the 
car behind him drove into the rear of his car, causing damage. He said the other driver was 
aggressive and refused to give his details at the scene, so Mr U had to contact the police. 
UKI informed the other insurer that it held the other driver at fault for the accident. But in 
December 2019 the other insurer said Mr U had rolled back into the other drivers stationary 
car. It said an independent witness had confirmed that version of events. It sent a copy of 
the witnesss signed statement to UKI. UKI then told Mr U that it was holding him at fault.
Mr U said the witness statement was false. He said the other driver had approached builders 
who were working near the scene of the accident and had talked to them. Mr U assumed he 
was trying to get them to support his account. He also said UKI should have looked at the 
police report before making its decision, plus any other evidence, such as CCTV footage.   
One of our investigators considered Mr Us complaint. He thought it was reasonable for UKI 
to have settled the claim as it did. He noted that it had said it couldnt prove that the witness 
wasnt independent or had given a false account of events. And he said UKI had pointed out 
to Mr U that there was nothing in the police report that it didnt already know about from him. 
The investigator thought it was fair for it to have made a decision without seeing it. 
Mr U said he felt hed been penalised for an accident that wasnt his fault. He said hed had 
to pay a £200 policy excess and had a fault claim on his record, which wasnt fair. He 
thought UKI should have looked for any CCTV evidence. The investigator said UKI had no 
reason to do that initially, and by the time the other insurer said Mr U was at fault, any 
footage was likely to have been deleted. Mr U said hed check, but he wasnt able to provide 
any further evidence.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr U was upset by UKIs decision, as its quite possible his version of events 
is accurate. The file notes show that UKI thought he gave it a credible account. But as it was 
disputed, UKI had to look at whether there was enough evidence for it to be able to argue 
successfully that Mr U wasnt at fault.
I think it was fair for UKI to decide that as the witness statement supported the other drivers 
version of events, it would make it very hard to do that. The witness said he / she didnt know 
either of the parties - and that Mr Us car had rolled back into the other drivers stationary 
car. I think its possible that the witness could have been mistaken about that. But without 
other independent evidence to the contrary, UKI couldnt prove the witnesss account was 
wrong, let alone that the witness statement contained false details.
Police reports are only useful in some cases. Here, the police didnt see what happened and 
they werent able to add anything to the details and photos Mr U had provided. I think it was 
reasonable in this case for UKI not to seek a police report, as I dont think doing so would 
have made any difference to the claims outcome. 
We dont know for sure whether there was any CCTV coverage of the accident. As theres a 
camera nearby, its possible. But it seems Mr U didnt mention it at the outset, and UKI had 
no reason to think it might be needed. Three months later, when the other insurer said Mr U 
was to blame for the accident, I think its very likely that any footage (useful or not) would 
have been deleted. 
The other driver didnt claim for any damage to his car, but UKI paid for the repairs needed 
to Mr Us car. It couldnt reclaim its costs from the other insurer because it couldnt show the 
other driver was at fault. In that situation, I think it was reasonable for UKI to record a fault 
claim on Mr Us policy, in line with standard industry practice. As hell have to declare it to 
other insurers, its likely to affect his future premiums. I know Mr U regards that as very 
unfair and that hed like us to ask UKI to remove it. But in my opinion, UKI wasnt wrong to 
record a fault claim against him. 
As Mr U had made a claim on his policy, he had to pay the policy excess. He agreed to that 
as part of the policys terms and conditions when he bought it. Given that I think it was fair 
for UKI to act as it did, I cant ask it to refund the excess to him as hes requested.         
Its clear that Mr U has found it very difficult to accept UKIs decision and that he remains 
convinced that it was based on a fabricated witness statement. But as I dont think Mr U can 
show that UKI acted unreasonably in dealing with his claim, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman