DRN-3290954
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly settled a claim against his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said he was driving one evening when he had to brake hard to avoid hitting another 
driver (the third party) who pulled out in front of him. Mr C said that the third party continued 
driving very slowly. Mr C beeped his horn before overtaking the third party and continuing his 
journey without further incident. 
The third party made a claim against Mr Cs policy. The third party alleged that when Mr C 
had overtaken him, Mr C had clipped his car causing damage which required repair. The 
third party insurer produced a witness statement which supported the third partys version of 
events. That is, the witness said Mr Cs car and the third partys car had come together as 
the third party had described when Mr C overtook. AXA said it didnt think it could defend the 
third partys claim and settled it holding Mr C at fault.
Mr C wasnt happy with AXAs handling of the matter and brought his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She didnt think AXA needed to take any further action. Mr C 
didnt agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing his complaint Mr Cs made a number of points. But in this decision I dont intend 
to refer to each and every point raised and instead will focus on what I see as being the key 
issues to enable me to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I need to make clear that it's not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, or indeed to 
decide if such an accident has taken place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, 
like all motor policies, Mr Cs policy allows AXA to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that 
he doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
Mr C feels strongly that no actual accident took place. So I can understand why he's not 
happy that an incident  where he says there was no actual contact between the cars  will 
affect his insurance history and no claims discount going forward. But, while I can 
understand his unhappiness, that doesn't mean AXAs done anything wrong.
AXA did initially defend the claim. But, after the third party insurer produced an independent 
witness statement supporting the third partys version of events, AXA didnt think it had 
reasonable prospects of continuing to defend it and so decided to pay it. Mr C thinks that the 
witness isnt independent. But the witness has given evidence to say he didnt know any of 
the parties prior to the incident. He also confirmed that he was prepared to have his 
evidence tested, under oath, in court. And theres no actual evidence, beyond Mr Cs 
suspicion, that the third party and the witness knew each other prior to the events on the 
day. So I don't think AXA had any grounds with which to consider that the witness was 
anything other than independent. 
Where there is independent witness evidence that favours one side over the other, that may 
prove crucial in determining liability. And, given that the third party had a witness prepared to 
give evidence in his favour, AXA decided it wasnt in a position to defend the claim and so 
settled it. Mr C thinks that AXA should have asked his passengers at the time for their 
evidence. But, generally in England and Wales, evidence being provided by a drivers 
passengers is not seen as being independent and is of little evidential weight when 
compared to independent witness evidence. So I dont think AXA needed to pursue that.
Further, Mr Cs car, which was around 19 years old at the time of the accident, had various 
scuffs and scrapes to it. Mr C said that these marks all pre-existed the incident. But he didnt 
provide evidence of that, so from AXAs point of view I can see that it might have been 
concerned that some of the damage to Mr Cs car happened in the alleged accident. And, 
AXA was clearly concerned that if the matter had gone to court liability would be settled in 
the other drivers favour. So AXA settled the claim before it incurred the costs of defending it 
in court.
Mr Cs pointed to some other issues which he thinks calls the third party evidence into 
question. For example he said the independent witness wouldn't have been able to see the 
cars coming together. But I dont know how Mr C can say that with any certainty as whether 
or not the witness could see the cars coming together would depend on the angle of his 
view. Mr C also said that the witness said it was dark when Mr C said that he was only 
driving during the daytime on the day in question. But I see Mr C had previously said he was 
out at some time  between 4pm and 6pm. And given the incident happened in February it 
would certainly have been going dark around that time. So I don't think the witness evidence 
that it was dark at the time of the incident discredits his evidence.
Mr C's also said that the cost of repairs  of around £1,900  seems far too high for such a 
minor incident and points to a fraud. But in my experience repairs of around that value are 
common in minor accidents at low speed. And its usual for the third party insurer to arrange 
for one of their own approved repairers to do such work. So I don't find the cost of the 
repairs to indicate that the claim must be fraudulent as Mr C has alleged. 
Further Mr Cs pointed out that the third party didnt contact the police, which Mr C believes 
also indicates the claim is fraudulent. The third party could have reported Mr C to the police 
had he wanted to  after all he alleged that Mr C had failed to stop following an accident. But 
I dont think the fact he didnt do so means therefore that his claim must have been 
fraudulent. He may simply have not wanted to involve the police, or in fact been unaware 
that failure to stop can be an offense. However, I don't think the fact the third party didnt 
contact police would have been reason for AXA to defend the claim further, when it clearly 
felt, given the strength of the evidence against it, that it didnt have reasonable prospects of 
doing so. And. in those circumstances. I think its decision to settle the claim as it did was 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman