DRN-2886326
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). Her account was changed to a PBA, with a monthly fee, in December 2013. Miss C 
says she never agreed to this, or wanted it. 
What happened
Miss C had had a bank account with Nationwide for several years. This didnt have a 
monthly fee for the account. In December 20013, the account was changed into a FlexPlus 
account, for which she was charged £10 a month. This came with several benefits, including 
worldwide family travel insurance, worldwide mobile phone insurance, UK and European car 
breakdown and recovery service, extended warranty, and free foreign cash-machine usage. 
Nationwide says Miss C arranged the change in the account over the phone. Miss C says 
she didnt want these benefits and never agreed to change her account. 
Our adjudicator said that there was not much evidence from the time of the change, as it 
was so long ago. And she didnt find evidence that the PBA had been mis-sold. She said she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Overall there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Miss Cs complaint. It wouldnt 
be fair to make Nationwide prove it didnt act wrongly  instead, fairly, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that 
there is that kind of evidence.
Nationwide hasnt now got records of the change in the account  and this is isnt surprising 
given how many years ago it was. And I wouldnt necessarily expect Miss C to be able to 
remember the detail of something that happened over seven years ago. So, even though 
Miss C is convinced she never agreed to this account change, it can be difficult to know 
whether its fair to rely fully on everything she now remembers. It is possible that, at the time, 
she did have a conversation with someone at Nationwide and decided the benefits might be 
worth the cost. She might have simply forgotten. 
I say this having looked at several such cases  and, in some, a telephone recording has 
come to light, and the customer has then accepted that they simply forgot what they had 
agreed. 
Miss C has said that you dont need travel insurance for Europe. But, in fact, it is normally 
advisable to have travel insurance for Europe: the European health scheme usually only 
covers your basic hospital costs, and it also wouldnt cover you for being brought home if 
needed. Travel insurance would usually cover all this. 
Miss C says she had a mobile phone, and she says she also had a car  though she says 
this was from 2014, so she may not have had it at the time the account changed to a PBA. 
But, overall, there were several benefits that were potentially useful to her  and even if she 
had such cover elsewhere, shed then have been able to cancel that other cover if she 
wanted. So I cant say theres no likelihood shed have wanted the PBA. And, although its 
hard to know how well Nationwide explained the PBA to Miss C (assuming there was indeed 
a conversation) its not clear that fuller information would have led to Miss C rejecting the 
PBA. 
And I can see that the monthly fees did appear on her statements  although I accept that 
she might have missed them amongst the other transactions. 
So I dont have good evidence that Miss C didnt agree to the PBA, or that she would never 
have taken it if it was offered. And I dont have any other reason to say the PBA was 
probably mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman