DRN-2770980
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a claim made
under his home insurance policy for damage to a retaining wall.
What happened
A retaining wall in Mr Ts garden collapsed in February 2020. He had some private quotes
carried out to repair the wall. The builders asked if Mr T had attempted to claim under his
home insurance, so he contacted RSA in May 2020 to do so.
RSA appointed a surveyor to go out and inspect the damage. After this, Mr T was told that
his claim was being declined on the basis the damage had gradually occurred over time,
which isnt covered under his policy.
As Mr T was unhappy with this, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought the
wall had suffered age related and gradual deterioration over time, as concluded by RSAs
surveyor. He acknowledged the collapse coincided with the bad weather at the time, but he
didnt think this was the sole cause of the damage and collapse.
Mr T didnt agree and gave his views on possible reasons why the wall collapsed. He said
that he thinks the rain at the time could have been intense enough to cause pressure to build
up, and that could be the reason the wall collapsed.
Our investigator considered Mr Ts views and additional information, but this didnt change
his opinion of things. As an agreement couldnt be reached, an ombudsman was asked for a
final decision.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I made my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA declined Mr Ts claim on the basis that the damage to Mr Ts retaining wall was 
caused gradually over time by the weight of the earth acting on the wall and a natural 
breakdown of materials. And damage caused gradually is excluded under Mr Ts 
policy.
So Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline Mr Ts claim 
for the reasons it has done.
When the complaint came to us, RSA sent us a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions which our investigator took into account when reaching his findings. He 
looked at the policy cover, which provided cover for storms (amongst other listed 
specific events) and assessed whether Mr T had a valid storm claim under this 
section of the policy. He concluded that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of 
damage and he didnt uphold the complaint.
However, when the case was passed to me for a final decision, I identified the policy 
terms provided by RSA originally were an old version from several years ago, and I 
have since been provided with the correct version of the terms, which applied at the 
time of loss. There is a difference here in how the policy works and provides cover.
As I said, the previous policy Mr T held covered a number of specific insured events
(including storm), and with those listed events were exclusions. The starting point 
with that policy is whether an insured peril occurred, and then whether an exclusion 
applied. And our investigator considered whether Mr T had a valid storm claim under 
his policy. Whereas the actual policy Mr T holds now is an all risks type cover. Here, 
Mr Ts policy provides cover for Damage to the buildings (which includes walls) 
unless otherwise specifically not covered, rather than insured events or perils such 
as storm specifically.
Its clear that the wall has suffered damage, it collapsed. So Mr T has met the policy
requirement here. So I now need to consider whether RSA has fairly declined the 
claim based on the exclusion its relied on.
There is a general exclusion for amongst other things, wear and tear and gradual 
damage, which RSA relied on and this relates to the whole policy. But I dont think 
that RSA has sufficiently shown this applies here in order to decline the damage 
claim. Ill explain why.
Mr T reported the loss following the wall collapse after a period of bad weather. Both 
parties seem to accept that the wall collapse coincided with this, although there has 
been some discussion between Mr T and our investigator whether the conditions 
were storm force, but as I said, Mr Ts policy covers damage, and thats what he is 
claiming for here.
Mr T has gone on to explain why he thinks the wall collapsed at that time specifically. 
This includes the volume of rain collecting as surface water due to the contours of the 
land behind the wall, putting pressure on the wall at that specific point in time, which 
ultimately caused the collapse. But in this case, Mr T doesnt need to evidence that a 
specified insured event, such as a storm, caused the damage. All he needs to show 
is that there is damage, which is what the policy covers. Its then for RSA to show its 
excluded specifically by the remaining terms.
RSA relied on the report completed by the surveyor to decline the claim. Ive looked 
at this along with the small number of images taken. But its very brief and I dont find 
it persuasive in showing the damage occurred gradually. So Im not satisfied RSA 
has sufficiently demonstrated from this report that the gradual damage exclusion 
applies.
The report says there has been a build up of vegetation and trees in the area. And 
whilst it does appear that there are trees and plants around and behind the wall, I 
dont think that RSA has shown this, over time, has caused the wall to deteriorate or 
come down. In fact, the wall has collapsed in a very specific part only, at a specific 
time.The report goes on to say that the surveyor feels the earth behind the wall has been 
acting on it over time until it eventually collapsed. But they havent explained how or 
why they reached that conclusion, or anything more to demonstrate this has 
happened gradually  which is the exclusion being relied on. It seems equally likely 
that the wall was serving its purpose, retaining the soil. And it was the weather at the 
time specifically which caused it to collapse as a one-off event, rather than gradually, 
as Mr T has described.
The surveyor report finally noted that the damage is due to a natural breakdown of 
materials. But again there isnt any detail around this, theyve not shown what 
materials have broken down, how or why  or indeed gradually.
So, the policy covers damage. And although Mr T has given a number of reasons 
why he thinks the wall has collapsed, all he is required to do is show there is damage 
- which hes done. Its then for RSA to show that the claim is defeated by an 
exclusion in the policy. But based on the very brief report carried out, which doesnt 
go into any detail, Im not minded to conclude that RSA have shown the damage was 
caused gradually, or subsequently that it would be fair or reasonable to apply the 
exclusion and decline the claim.
With this in mind, and unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my
provisional decision, Im minded to say that RSA need to deal with Mr Ts claim for 
damage to his retaining wall, subject to the remaining terms and policy excess.
Its clear that RSA declining the claim and Mr T having to live with a collapsed wall in 
his garden has caused him distress and inconvenience. So Im also minded to say 
RSA should pay Mr T £100 compensation.
Therefore I was minded to uphold the complaint and to say RSA needed to deal with Mr Ts 
claim for damage to his retaining wall, subject to the remaining terms and policy excess. And 
that RSA needed to pay Mr T £100 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr T responded to my provisional decision accepting it and said he had no further 
information to provide in response.
RSA responded to my provisional decision. They accepted that it was an all risks policy 
rather than perils. And they also accepted that the report carried out by their surveyor was 
very brief, and not sufficient to prove the gradual damage and wear and tear exclusion.
 
RSA also asked one of their structural engineers to carry out a desk-top assessment of the 
claim. They looked at the brief report and photos already carried out by RSA previously. 
They mentioned the wall appeared to be constructed from stone bedded in mortar but they 
had no information on the age of the wall.
They went on to say the previous report mentioned the length and height of the wall, but they 
werent able to estimate the thickness. They said the soil retained varies and estimated how 
high it was. They said the photos didnt appear to show any inclusion of free draining 
material behind the wall to prevent hydrostatic pressure. They also noted the volume of rain 
at the time of the collapse.
They said that they think the retaining wall has collapsed as it was structurally inadequate for 
the height of soil, and this was exacerbated by the lack of weep holes, and they dont believe its a coincidence that it failed at a period of significant rainfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and 
having done so, I havent changed my mind.
RSA accepted that the correct policy terms were all risks. As I mentioned, the way these 
policies work is slightly different. They cover damage rather than specific insured events 
such as a storm like a perils policy would. And in this case Mr T has shown damage has 
occurred to his wall, and thats the insured event. Its then for RSA to show an exclusion 
applies.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I didnt think RSA had sufficiently shown the 
gradual damage or wear and tear exclusion they were relying on applied, as the report they 
originally carried out was very brief and I didnt find it persuasive. It was limited in detail 
without anything to demonstrate why the conclusions in it were reached.
RSA has since asked their structural engineer to look at that same report and give their 
opinion based on the limited information contained in the report. And whilst I note their 
comments, Im still not persuaded that RSA has sufficiently shown the exclusion applies.
The structural engineer made reference to the brief report, and a number of areas in relation 
to the wall which werent clear to them, which included the thickness, the age and the 
volume of soil retained. So the information theyve been able to consider and base their 
opinion on is limited, due to the briefness and lack of information contained in that original 
report. They mentioned the photographs dont show any free draining material behind the 
wall or weep holes. But as with the report, the photos are limited, and are of a wall which has 
already collapsed into a number of pieces.
Even with the additional comments from the structural engineer, Im not persuaded RSA has 
shown the exclusion applies. They could only consider very limited information to base their 
opinion on, and theyve also highlighted a number of areas where they were unsure due to 
the briefness of the original report. So I still dont think RSA has sufficiently shown the 
damage has occurred gradually or due to wear and tear, which is the exclusion they are 
relying on to decline the claim.
As Mr T has shown damage has occurred, and I dont think RSA has sufficiently shown the 
exclusion applies, my view remains the same, that RSA need to deal with Mr Ts claim for 
damage to his retaining wall, subject to the remaining terms and excesses.
As neither party commented on the £100 compensation I was minded to direct RSA to pay, 
my view of this remains the same and for the same reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to:
Deal with Mr Ts claim for damage to his retaining wall, subject to the remaining 
terms and policy excessPay Mr T £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman