DRN-2807781
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) has 
refused to pay a claim on her pet insurance policy, as it was made 12 months after the 
condition was first noticed.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In December 2020, Mrs P made a claim to Red Sands for the cost of treatment needed to 
remove a lump from her dogs back.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The policy Mrs P has is a time limited policy. Red Sands has said the policy will only 
provide cover for 12 months from when a condition is first noticed. It says as the lump 
was first noticed in June 2019, cover under the policy stopped in June 2020. It has 
said Mrs P could have claimed in June 2019 for the investigatory work that was 
undertaken but chose not to, therefore it fairly started the time limit. 
Mrs P was told by her vet that the lump was benign and while surgery could be 
undertaken at that time, the better option was to watch and wait due to the risks 
involved. The vet has communicated separately to Red Sands to confirm this was 
their advice. It wasnt until August 2020 it was decided the lump had grown to such 
an extent; removal was the best option. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to start the time 
limit in June 2019. Mrs P had no benefit from that time period, as there wasnt any 
reasonable treatment for her to claim for. She was told by the vet waiting was the 
best option so that is what she did. I think the time limit should start at the point when 
Mrs P knew that treatment was required and recommended - August 2020. The 
operation took place in September 2020. 
Red Sands also placed an exclusion on the policy from March 2020. The policy 
terms, which it has quoted, say that an exclusion wont be placed on the policy until 
365 days have passed. So, I find it added this exclusion prematurely in the first 
instance as the earliest it could have been added was June 2020.  However, as I 
have found above, I dont think the time limit should have started until August 2020. 
So, in any event, Red Sands will need to remove this exclusion from the policy. It will 
of course be free to review its position again in the future once the time limit has 
passed for this condition.   
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Red Sands should reconsider Mrs Ps claim, having started the time limit 
from August 2020 and removed the exclusion placed on the policy. 
Should the claim be found to be valid, and Mrs P has paid for the treatment. Red Sands 
should pay any amount due to Mrs P (having deducted any applicable excess), adding 8% 
interest per year from the date she made the payment to the date it makes settlement. 
If Red Sands considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much it has taken off and give Mrs P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman