DRN-4033996
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as W, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
defaulted its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Ws complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr G.
What happened
W successfully applied to Barclays for a BBL, with the first payment becoming due on the 
loan on 29 July 2021. Mr G applied for six-month repayment holiday for Ws BBL shortly 
before that date, on 12 July 2021, but the application was made too late to affect the first 
BBL payment scheduled for the end of that month, meaning that the 29 July BBL payment 
remained due. However, Mr G cancelled Ws direct debit instruction set up to make the BBL 
payments, which meant that Ws BBL fell into one month of arrears. 
After the six-month repayment holiday, during which time W didnt clear the arrears on its 
BBL, the next payment on the BBL became due on 1 March 2022. But W didnt make that 
payment, and so the BBL fell further into arrears. 
Mr G spoke with Barclays on 2 March 2022 and explained that W couldnt make payments 
towards the BBL and asked what payment options were available to W. Barclays explained 
because the BBL was in arrears a plan would need to be put in place to clear those arrears. 
At the same time, Barclays extended the term of the loan and applied a capital payment 
deferral plan to it. This meant W would only need to make monthly payments to cover the 
interest accruing on the loan and wouldnt have to pay the capital repayment instalments 
while the plan was ongoing. The plan was dependent on Mr G providing Barclays with Ws 
income and expenditure information. But, Mr G didnt provide this information to Barclays, 
and W didnt pay the monthly interest payments or clear the arrears already present on the 
account as required, which meant that the BBL then fell even further into arrears.
In September 2022, Mr G applied for another capital payment deferral plan on Ws behalf. 
But again, W then didnt make the interest payments required by the plan, which meant that 
the BBL continued to fall deeper into arrears. This led to Barclays taking the decision to 
default Ws BBL account for non-payment in December 2022, at which time they sent default 
notices to Mr G and also to his wife, in her capacity as Company Secretary for W. 
Mr G wasnt happy that Barclays defaulted Ws BBL because Barclays told him the account 
wouldnt be defaulted unless the BBL arrears reached a set amount  which they hadnt at 
the time Barclays defaulted the loan. Mr G was also unhappy that Barclays had written to his 
wife about Ws debt. So, he raised a complaint on Ws behalf.
Barclays responded to Mr G and explained they were satisfied the BBL had been defaulted 
in line with the terms of the lending. Barclays also confirmed that they didnt feel theyd acted 
unfairly by writing to Mr Gs wife in her capacity as Company Secretary for W. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred Ws complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the situation. Mr G remained dissatisfied, so 
Ws complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Ws 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr G for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr G notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both W and Barclays. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
 
Im aware that Mr G feels that he was told, during a telephone conversation in March 2022, 
that Ws BBL wouldnt be defaulted unless the arrears amount exceeded 3.5 times the 
original monthly payment amount  which Mr G maintains was never the case. And Mr G 
has provided a letter from Barclays which he feels confirms this point.
But the letter Mr G has provided notes that the Barclays staff member that Mr G spoke with 
in March 2022 explained that an account usually needs to have arrears of 3.5 months of the 
capital repayment of the BBL before a Formal Demand is issued. Additionally, this letter also 
notes that Mr G wasnt told by the staff member that W didnt need to make payments 
towards the BBL until this level of arrears was accrued, or that W wouldnt be contacted by 
Barclays before the account arrears reached such a level.
Its unclear why Mr G put so much weight on this one conversation, given that it didnt 
provide W with a mandate to not make payments towards its BBL as Mr G maintains, and 
also that Barclays issued several collections and recoveries letters to W after this date which 
Im satisfied effectively superseded any information that Mr G may have incorrectly believed 
hed been told. And I also feel that any expectation that Mr G may have had regarding W not 
being required to make a payment towards the BBL until a set amount of arrears had 
accrued on the account is clearly and obviously out of keeping with both the terms and the 
intention of the BBL  or indeed of any banking loan product.
Notably, the Barclays staff member that Mr G spoke with appears to have been referencing 
guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This guidance details 
when a credit provider such as Barclays should consider defaulting a credit account for the non-payment of account arrears and includes that a credit provider should generally provide 
a notice to an account holder that their account may be defaulted when that account has 
fallen into around three months of arrears.
Importantly, the ICO guidance is only guidance, and its for businesses such as Barclays to 
develop policies and processes that meet the spirit of that guidance. And in this instance, 
given the prolonged time that W didnt make payments towards the BBL or clear the arrears 
that had accrued, Im satisfied that Barclays actions  including the defaulting of Ws BBL  
were in keeping with the spirit of the ICO guidance. 
Ultimately, W failed to make scheduled payments towards the BBL in July 2021 and in 
March 2022, and then failed to make several interest-only payments towards the BBL, 
having entered into agreements with Barclays to do so. Furthermore, W didnt demonstrate 
any will or intention to clear the arrears that had accrued on the BBL account because of the 
missed payments, including that W didnt provide its business income and expenditure 
information to Barclays as was reasonably required of it.
Additionally, Im satisfied that Barclays did attempt to work with W to give it several 
opportunities to recover the position of its BBL before taking the decision to default the 
account as it did. And so, as stated above, Im satisfied Barclays havent acted unfairly in 
how they managed this situation, including that they defaulted Ws BBL when they did. 
Finally, Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to write to Ws Company 
Secretary regarding the position of the BBL account. And given that Ws Company Secretary 
is Mr Gs wife, it follows that I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly by writing to her in her 
capacity as Company Secretary as they did.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take 
any action here. I trust that Mr G will understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman