DRN-2688381
The complaint
Mr G  on behalf of Company O  complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
has unfairly declined his legal expenses insurance claim.
Great Lakes uses intermediaries to administer and manage its legal expenses insurance 
claims on its behalf. So any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as 
including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.  
What happened
 Mr G holds a commercial legal expenses policy for Company O (for ease of reference, I will 
refer to Mr G throughout this decision as the representative bringing the complaint, rather 
than the company itself). He made a claim in March 2019 for assistance with a contract 
dispute with one of his former associates, whom he said he had entered into a contract for 
services. 
Great Lakes initially declined the claim in March 2019 because it said there was no cover for 
contract disputes. Around a month later, it subsequently said that contract disputes were 
covered, but that Mr Gs dispute was not as it said it was a commercial arrangement and not 
for the sale of good and services. Great Lakes said the policy requires the agreement to fall 
within the scope of the Sale of Goods Act 1979 or the Supply of Goods and Services Act 
1982, which it said Mr Gs contract did not, so there was no insured event.
Mr G disagreed and told Great Lakes that the agreement was a contract for services. But 
given that it was unwilling to recognise his claim, he said he had no choice but to instruct his 
own solicitors to determine whether his claim had sufficient prospects, which cost him 
£1,800 (including VAT), which he says the insurer should reimburse. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. Following our involvement, Great Lakes agreed 
to refer the claim for a legal assessment in May 2020 to determine whether it had sufficient 
prospects of success. This was on the basis that the agreement may have fallen within the 
scope of the Sale of Goods Act 1979 or the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint, as he thought that the delay of over a year in 
requesting the prospects assessment could have been avoided, so he awarded £200 
compensation, but did not think that Great Lakes ought to refund the costs Mr G incurred in 
obtaining his own legal assessment. The insurer accepted the investigators assessment, but 
Mr G disagreed, so the matter was passed to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March 2021. I said I intended 
upholding Mr Gs complaint and set out the following reasoning:
Mr Gs claim was originally declined by Great Lakes in April 2019 on the basis that 
the policy only covered contracts for goods and services (notably, those that fall 
within the meaning laid down in the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and the Supply of Goods 
and Services Act 1982). Mr G disputed this, but was essentially told that there was 
no insured event for the policy to respond to.
However, following the complaint being brought to our service, Great Lakes 
subsequently decided to undertake a legal assessment and consider whether the 
claim had prospects of success. It told us in an email of 7 April 2020 that it was doing 
this on the basis that the claim may fall within the Sale of Goods and Services Act. 
Following the legal assessment, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the claim wasnt a 
contract falling within the meaning of either the Sale of Goods Act 1979 or the Supply 
of Goods and Services Act 1982, and neither has Great Lakes presented any legal 
opinion it relied upon back in April 2019 to suggest this was a reasonable basis for 
initially declining the claim. So it follows that it ought reasonably to have instructed its 
panel solicitors to carry out a legal assessment when the claim was submitted back 
in March 2019. Instead, it incorrectly told Mr G that there was no cover for his claim 
available under the policy, which led to him incurring costs by instructing his own 
solicitor to assess the prospects of his claim, when this is what Great Lakes should 
have done from the outset.
Great Lakes say that Mr G was not required to obtain any independent legal opinion, 
and that these costs are not covered by the policy. But given that the insurer was not 
even choosing to accept that there was even an insured event in the first place 
(which it has now said there may have been), Mr G was left with little choice but to 
instruct his own solicitor to advise on the prospects of his claim in order to progress 
matters. I appreciate that Great Lakes havent unequivocally stated that the claim 
does fall within the scope of the relevant Acts. But the recent legal assessment it has 
obtained does not say that Mr Gs contract is out of scope of the contract section of 
cover under the policy. And if there was any ambiguity regarding this point at the time 
Mr G raised the claim  which it seems there was  a legal assessment shouldve still 
been requested to determine this issue as well as whether the claim had prospects.  
Its important to note that as part of this particular complaint, I am not considering 
whether Great lakes can fairly rely on its legal assessment obtained in May 2020 or 
whether the claim for legal expenses should ultimately be indemnified, as this does 
not form the subject of Mr Gs current complaint. But irrespective of whether the legal 
assessment instructed by Great Lakes turned out to be positive or negative, I still 
consider that such an assessment should have nonetheless been carried out at the 
point Mr G made the claim in 2019  as the insurer has produced no persuasive 
evidence to suggest why it was not prepared to consider the prospects of the claim at 
that point, or why it dismissed it instead of treating it as an insured event.
If Great Lakes had accepted the claim and proceeded to assess its prospects as it 
ought to have done, Im satisfied Mr G would not have incurred fees instructing his 
own solicitor to assess his claim. Indeed, I can see he even told the insurer by email 
in April 2019 that this is what he would have to resort to if it continued refusing to 
acknowledge that his claim constituted an insured event. So, in the circumstances, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to now reimburse Mr Gs 
solicitors costs for obtaining his own legal assessment (upon submission of 
reasonable proof of such costs being incurred), which hes said total £1,800 
(including VAT). However, it should be noted that this does not extend to any other 
legal costs Mr G may have incurred that extend beyond the cost of obtaining a legal 
assessment of his claim, as this does not form the subject of Mr Gs complaint either.
In terms of compensation, our investigator awarded £200, which Mr G does not 
consider to be adequate. He says that the award should be substantially higher so as 
to act as a disincentive against insurers wrongly declining claims. However, 
compensatory awards made by this service are not intended to be punitive in nature 
or to act as a deterrent. They are intended to recognise the distress and inconvenience experienced, and the level of compensation should reflect the impact 
a firms errors have had on its customer. 
I appreciate that Mr G says that he has had to spend a substantial amount of time 
pursuing this matter as a result of his claim being wrongly declined. But in this 
complaint it is not Mr G that is the eligible complainant; it is his company as the 
insured entity. And where the consumer is a company, we cannot compensate the 
directors or shareholders personally. Our service can, however, make awards for 
inconvenience (as a company cannot experience pain, suffering or distress), so long 
as it was experienced by the company itself rather than the people bringing the 
complaint on its behalf.
In these circumstances, Im persuaded there would have been moderate 
inconvenience for the company given that its claim was declined and it had to 
instruct its own solicitors to pursue the matter. But Im satisfied that £200 is fair 
compensation in these circumstances, so I do not intend to make any further award. 
I invited further comments from both parties. Mr G responded saying that £1,800 was the 
amount his solicitors asked him to pay as a down payment, and that there will be other fees 
due. Great Lakes didnt provide a response to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it.
Mr G says that £1,800 was just the down payment he was asked to make by his solicitors 
and that further amounts may be due. However, its important to note that in this decision I 
am not deciding whether all of Mr Gs legal expenses should be covered under the policy, as 
this will be dependent on the claim outcome and whether the insurer can fairly rely on its 
legal assessment to decline it (which Mr G has said does not form the subject matter of this 
complaint, but may be one that he subsequently raises). 
So, at this moment in time, I will only be directing Great Lakes to reimburse the legal fees 
related to Mr Gs solicitor advising him on the strength of his claim and whether it had 
sufficient prospects (i.e. what the insurer shouldve asked its panel solicitors to undertake 
from the outset). Mr G will need to provide reasonable evidence (such as invoices) of the 
extent of his solicitors costs and what they relate to, because any work carried out by the 
solicitor over and above the provision of a legal assessment of his claim will not fall within 
the scope of this award. 
As neither party has put forwards any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to:
Reimburse the cost of Company Os legal costs incurred in obtaining its own legal 
assessment of the claim (upon submission of reasonable proof of such costs being 
incurred);Pay 8% interest on these costs from the date they were incurred to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Company O £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G  on behalf 
of Company O  to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman