DRN-3202925
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the way esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, dealt 
with a claim made under her motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
A third party driver told esure they had been in an accident with Mrs K and wanted to 
make a claim.
After having both vehicles inspected, esure accepted liability for the claim. As a 
result, it reduced Mrs Ks no claim discount (NCD) and her premium increased when 
her policy renewed.
Mrs K said the claim made by the third party was false. She didnt think it was fair 
that liability had been accepted or that her premium had been impacted.
esure conceded it had accepted liability prematurely. It agreed to retract its 
admission of liability and dispute the third party claim.
Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. Esure told us it has since removed the 
claim from Mrs Ks record, reinstated her NCD and amended the renewal premium.
Our investigator thought Mrs K had been caused avoidable stress and inconvenience 
as a result of the way esure had dealt with things. He thought it should pay £100 
compensation as a result.
Mrs K agreed but esure didnt, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure has accepted it should have dealt with the claim differently by disputing liability when 
the inspection reports cast significant doubt on the third party drivers version of events.
Its taken steps to put that right  removing the claim from Mrs Ks record, reinstating her 
NCD and amending her premium. Im satisfied that means shes in the financial position she 
would have been had esure disputed liability earlier.
The only point remaining in dispute is compensation. esure doesnt think any is warranted as 
its put Mrs K in the right financial position. And it says there would always have been a 
degree of inconvenience for her as a result of the third party driver making the claim.
I agree with esure to an extent. Some of the inconvenience Mrs K has suffered was beyond 
esures control. It had a duty to consider the claim made by the third party, carry out 
appropriate investigations, and decide whether to accept liability. These steps were 
unavoidable. So any distress or wasted time they caused Mrs K isnt something I can hold 
esure responsible for.
However, esure also acknowledges that its taken longer to reach the right position than it 
should have done. It accepts the inspections highlighted an inconsistency in the damage that 
didnt support what the third party had said. Had esure contested liability at that point, I 
agree Mrs K would likely have reached the same position she has now  but that would have 
happened sooner. It would have taken up less of her time and caused her less distress. Its 
likely it would also have avoided the need for her to go through the complaint process.
Because of this, Im satisfied esure has caused avoidable distress and inconvenience. I think 
£100 is a reasonable and proportionate amount of compensation in these circumstances.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, to pay 
£100 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman