DRN-3483055
The complaint
Ms H complained about the standard of repairs completed and the stress she experienced 
when she claimed under her home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (LBG) following an escape of water in her home.
What happened
Ms H suffered an escape of water from her bathroom which caused damage to the rooms 
below. She claimed under her policy with LBG. LBG accepted her claim and appointed a 
personal claims consultant.
Once LBG removed Ms Hs belongings, completed asbestos tests and dried Ms Hs home, 
repairs began. This was around six weeks after she first raised the claim.
LBG settled the contents claim. Ms Hs dissatisfaction was with the repairs to her home. She 
complained about the delays, missed appointments, lack of communication, poor standard of 
repair such that some needed to be redone, and the additional stress she experienced which 
affected her health.
In its February 2021 final response letter to Ms Hs complaint, LBG acknowledged the 
shortfalls. It offered her compensation of £1,000 and the option to use her own contractor for 
the remaining repairs, which she agreed to. However, Ms H complained that LBG continued 
to provide a poor standard of service. LBG didnt think it had done anything wrong since its 
compensation offer. It sent Ms H a second final response letter in which it said it wouldnt be 
offering any more compensation.
Our investigator thought LBG should pay Ms H a further £1,000 for the additional stress and 
inconvenience caused in its handling of her claim. 
Ms H responded with information about continued shortfalls. LBG didnt agree with our 
investigators proposal. It said the delays were out of its control because Ms H was arranging 
the work with her own contractor. And it had already considered the health-related issues in 
its first compensation payment, so it wasn't responsible for an additional payment in 
recognition of that part of Ms Hs complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Ms 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Both parties provided a lot of information in respect of this matter. I wont comment on 
everything Ive seen, and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ill look at the complaint as a 
whole and comment on the evidence which best helps me explain my decision.
Ive considered this complaint as two overriding issues: the way LBG completed repairs, and 
its handling of Ms Hs claim.
Repairs
I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest that theres any dispute about the repairs 
needed. Ms Hs concern is that they werent done to a reasonable standard. LBG 
acknowledged that it had to send contractors out to redo some of the repairs and I note in its 
February letter to Ms H that it agreed she could arrange for her own contractor to complete 
the remaining work. 
The policy provides cover for LBG to complete repairs or to reimburse Ms H if she arranges 
the work herself. While any reimbursement would usually be at a discounted rate equal to 
what it wouldve cost LBG, I note that it simply agreed to settle the full cost. Given that the 
relationship between Ms H and LBGs contractors had broken down at this point, Im 
satisfied that LBGs offer was fair. 
I realise this is a simplistic view of the experience Ms H had, but theres little benefit in 
describing every detail of the repairs when both parties agree that they werent done to a 
good enough standard on every occasion. LBG agreed to pay for Ms H to use her own 
contractors for the remaining work and I think that, along with the compensation which Ill 
address next, is enough to put this matter right.
Claim handling
From looking at the evidence, this seems to be the main cause of Ms Hs dissatisfaction. 
She complains that contractors didnt turn up when they shouldve done; her belongings 
were damaged when they were put into storage; she experienced stress related health 
conditions which she says were caused by this matter, and Ms H says LBG continued to 
provide a poor service even after its second final response letter. 
Firstly, Ill explain that I cant look at any issues Ms H is unhappy about which happened 
after the second response letter. Thats because LBG must first have the opportunity to 
respond to her concerns.
February 2021 letter
Looking at the damage caused when Ms Hs belongings were moved into storage, I see that 
LBG accepted responsibility and agreed a settlement to cover the cost of 
repair/replacements. I havent seen anything to suggest this settlement amount is in dispute.
LBG accepted Ms Hs complaint about the delays up to February 2021, the poor 
workmanship, and the stress she experienced. It paid £1,000 compensation in recognition of 
its shortfalls. Having considered the timelines provided by both parties, I agree that LBG 
couldve handled the claim better and that Ms H experienced a standard of service below 
that which she might reasonably have expected. But, overall, Im satisfied that the 
compensation LBG paid was fair and reasonable and, having listened to the calls she had 
with LBG, it seems Ms H agreed at the time it was offered.July 2021 letter
So, that leaves me to consider the complaint handling after February 2021 up to July 2021. 
Again, Ive looked at the timeline of events and the correspondence between Ms H and LBG 
to see whether there is any evidence that LBG caused Ms H further inconvenience and 
distress. 
Ms Hs main concerns were her stress-related condition; inability to work due to stress and 
dealing with her claim; being too uncomfortable to stay in her home, and the time taken to 
get new quotes from contractors to do the repairs.
I understand Ms H had a lot of items packed and stored around her home, meaning she had 
to climb around things daily. So, she stayed with friends or relatives a few days each week. I 
appreciate it wouldve been inconvenient, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest Ms Hs 
home was uninhabitable. I cant reasonably ask LBG to pay compensation for Ms Hs 
decision to stay away from her home because her stored belongings were an inconvenience.
Ms H said she lost out on work income because she was dealing with her claim. Looking at 
the evidence, Ms H said she had a workspace available to her. The fact that repairs were 
necessary because of the water damage wouldve always caused Ms H some 
inconvenience, likely to impact on her working arrangements given that she worked from 
home. But as Ms H complained about the work-related issues after LBG issued its response 
in July 2021, shell need to give LBG the opportunity to respond first. I wont be deciding this 
issue here.
Ive thought carefully about the stress-related health issues Ms H reported. Having listened 
to the calls between her and LBG, Im aware that Ms H asked it to consider increasing its 
compensation offer from between £500 and £750. She informed it of her stress-related 
condition before she agreed to its final offer of £1,000. As Ms H had already discussed her 
stress-related condition with LBG before she accepted its offer of compensation, Im satisfied 
LBGs offer and Ms Hs acceptance was in respect of all issues up to the offer in its letter of 
February 2021.
I understand the health issues continued after LBG paid compensation, and there were more 
delays. However, Ms H had decided to use her own contractors by that time, so LBG was no 
longer responsible for any delays or stress-related matters caused after its contractors 
stopped working on the repairs. Thats because it no longer had any control over the 
timescales or work done, and its responsibility was simply to reimburse Ms H for any claim 
related costs.
In summary, its clear that LBG didnt handle Ms Hs claim as well as it couldve done. But 
Im satisfied it put matters right by replacing damaged items, covering repairs costs, and 
paying £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Although the claim was ongoing 
when LBG paid the compensation, I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest LBG 
was the main cause of stress or inconvenience caused after it settled the first complaint. 
Therefore, I see no reason to ask LBG to pay any more compensation to Ms H.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LBG had nothing further to add.
Ms H didnt agree with my provisional decision for a number of reasons. She didnt think the 
compensation was a fair sum in light of the mistakes LBG made and she said she didnt 
accept it from LBG as full settlement of her complaint. Ms H also said she didnt agree with the way LBG handled her complaint  treating each separate issue as a new complaint 
instead of considering everything as one ongoing complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repair delays
Ms H said the repairs shouldve been completed by October 2020 but werent finished until 
December 2021. As I explained, I cant consider the delay from when LBG agreed to Ms H 
using her own builder, in February 2021, up to the point of work completion. While I accept 
LBG caused delays and work needed to be redone, once it was agreed that Ms H would 
arrange the work, LBG was no longer responsible for any delays. 
I understand the point Ms H is making that it meant the repairs continued longer than they 
shouldve done, and the inconvenience continued, but thats what LBG addressed when it 
paid compensation. Everything up to February 2021 was covered by that compensation 
payment. I didnt see anything in the evidence to persuade me that LBG was responsible for 
any significant delays after that time, so thered be no reason for LBG to make any further 
compensation payment. 
LBG paid £1,000 for the delays, distress and inconvenience caused from the start of the 
claim to when it was agreed Ms Hs builder would carry on with the work. This is in addition 
to the payments LBG made to cover damaged contents or replace items. Im satisfied that 
the compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what Ms H 
asked LBG for when she discussed her complaint with it. 
Compensation
Ms H says she didnt agree to the compensation payment in full settlement of her complaint 
and she felt pressured to respond on the day. Having listened to the call, its clear Ms H 
asked for £1,000 after LBG initially offered between £500 and £750. LBG took time to 
consider her request and then agreed, explaining that the payment would be its final offer for 
the complaint up to that date. It went on to clarify that if there were further issues after that, 
Ms H could raise another complaint which would be considered separately. So, I dont think 
that by paying the compensation it offered, LBG has implied that Ms H accepted in full 
settlement of future issues. And, as LBG explained in its letter to her, Ms H had the option to 
take matters further, which is what she did. I cant reasonably say LBG did anything wrong 
here.
To be clear, my decision is not about whether Ms H accepted the payment in full settlement 
 its that Im satisfied the payment LBG offered was enough in recognition of the shortfalls in 
service up to February 2021. And I havent seen anything in the evidence for the period 
between February and July 2021 which warrants any further compensation. I havent 
considered anything after July 2021, so Im not concluding here about whether further action 
or compensation is warranted after that date. So, in respect of events up to July 2021, I 
wont be asking LBG to increase the payment.
Complaint handling
I understand Ms H is unhappy that LBG issued a final response about her complaint before 
the repairs were completed. She felt it wouldve been better to address the complaint as a 
whole once work was finished. I understand what shes saying but, when LBG made its offer, 
there was no reason to assume thered be any further issues of complaint. So LBG tried to 
resolve the complaint up to that point with the hope that thered be nothing further to address. Unfortunately, Ms H didnt find that to be the case, but I dont think it was unfair for 
LBG to try to resolve the complaint when it did.
I know Ms H is aware of the way LBG handles complaints about different issues separately 
but, while she might not agree, I dont think LBG did anything wrong by making its 
compensation offer.
Ms H said she saw the complaint as ongoing. In my provisional decision, I said the claim 
was ongoing. That is, the claim wasnt settled when Ms H made her complaint to LBG. As 
Ive said above, there was no reason to think the ongoing claim would give rise to further 
cause to complain, so I dont agree that the complaint was necessarily ongoing when LBG 
offered to resolve it.
Finally, Ms H disagreed that her home was habitable, explaining that she couldnt entertain 
or enjoy her home life while her belongings were packed in boxes around her. Ive agreed 
that it wouldve been inconvenient to have to work round the packed boxes every day. But, 
as Ms H confirmed, she had a working bathroom and kitchen, and there wouldve been 
limited opportunities to entertain during the lockdown, so I cant agree that her home was 
uninhabitable. I see no reason for LBG to pay anything towards living costs.
Overall, Im satisfied that LBG acknowledged its mistakes when Ms H complained. It covered 
repair costs, replaced or paid for damaged items, and paid £1,000 compensation in 
recognition of the avoidable delays, and distress and inconvenience caused up to the point 
that it agreed Ms H could use her own builder for the remaining work. Ive not seen anything 
to persuade me that any further compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman