DRN-3254227
The complaint
Ms B complains that Stackhouse Poland Limited (SP) acting as her insurance broker failed 
to take appropriate care when setting up her home contents policy, resulting in a declined 
claim and her insurer avoiding the policy. 
Ms B has a representative acting on her behalf. In the main I will refer to Ms B in my decision 
for ease of reading.
What happened
Ms B moved to rented accommodation in 2018. She required contents insurance and 
contacted SP to act as her broker. Ms B says she agreed a policy through SP and this was 
put into force in October 2018. 
During the first policy year Ms B made two claims. The policy renewed in October 2019 and 
the premium was adjusted to acknowledge these claims. In December 2019 Ms Bs property 
was burgled. She referred to her insurer and it investigated her claim. In doing so it came to 
light Ms B had made a claim in 2016 for a loss she suffered whilst staying with a friend in 
France.    
Ms Bs insurer hadnt been made aware of the claim from 2016. It considered this was a 
misrepresentation on Ms Bs part. Had it known about the claim, in conjunction with the two 
other claims Ms B made in the 2018-2019 policy year, it says it wouldnt have offered cover 
at the renewal in October 2019.
Ms B says SP told her she neednt declare the claim from 2016 when this was discussed at 
the time the policy was set up. She thought it was at fault for this information not being 
provided to her insurer. And this is the reason her claim, following the burglary, was declined 
and her policy avoided back to the October 2019 renewal date. 
SP says it sent Ms B a Demands and Needs questionnaire in August 2018. This included a 
section asking for full details of all claims from the last six years, including travel and legal 
protection insurance. It says Ms B returned a partially completed questionnaire in 
September. SP contacted Ms B to arrange a call to complete the missing sections. A call 
took place in October, during which it says Ms B didnt disclose the claim from 2016.
SP sent a quote to Ms B in early October 2018. This explained her insurer would send her a 
Statement of Fact and says its important she check the information she provided was 
correct and complete. It says it made Ms B aware she must take reasonable care to ensure 
information she provided was accurate. And must let it know if she hadnt understood the 
meaning of any question.   
SP says it sent Ms B a copy of the completed demand and needs questionnaire. It says she 
subsequently made contact to ask questions around the scope of the cover but didnt correct 
or add to the information she had already provided. 
SP says Ms B confirmed her acceptance of the policy later in October 2018. In its emailed 
response it explained cover had been arranged based on the information she provided. It 
says Ms Bs insurance schedule and statement of fact was sent to her a few days later. This 
contained a warning that all information must be true and complete, and this formed the 
contract between her and her insurer.
SP says it took appropriate steps to obtain claims information from Ms B. It doesnt accept 
that its responsible for this information not being disclosed to her insurer or for its decision to 
avoid the policy. 
Ms B disagreed with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He thought although a call recording wasnt available to clarify 
exactly what was discussed, Ms B had partially completed the questionnaire by the time of 
the call. Meaning she had already had sight of the questions to be answered, including the 
one about claims history. 
Our investigator says Ms B received a completed copy of the questionnaire following her 
phone call with SP. And she was informed on several occasions of the importance that the 
information she provided was complete and accurate. Because of this our investigator 
thought SP had behaved reasonably in its role as broker. 
Ms B didnt accept this outcome. Her further comments didnt persuade our investigator to 
change his mind. So, she asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I understand she will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
My remit here is to consider whether SP behaved reasonably when arranging Ms Bs 
insurance policy. If it didnt, I must consider the impact this had on her insurers decision to 
decline the subsequent claim.  
I have seen a copy of the partially completed questionnaire Ms B sent back to SP by email in 
September 2018. Approximately half of the required sections are completed. The remaining 
sections include the one relating to past claims. This section states:
Claims Experience: Full details of all claims in last 6 years, including travel and legal 
protection insurance. Please note date, circumstances and value of claim. If you have taken 
measures to prevent further occurrences, please describe them.
  
SP contacted Ms B by email requesting a time to speak so that the outstanding information 
could be obtained over the phone. There is no call recording or transcript from this call. SP 
explains the business was taken over, which has involved a migration of its systems. It says 
unfortunately this means no call recording is available.
Ms B says that the call with SP lasted around seven minutes. She remembers being asked 
have you ever had a claim. She responded to say, yes she had made a claim with 
respect to mobile phones and a car, but the broker said, he wasnt interested in mobile 
phones or cars.  Ms B says she asked, what kind of claims are we talking about. In 
response she says she was asked if shed ever had a contents claim or a claim in the UK. She replied no as shed never had contents insurance before, and never had to make a 
claim in the UK. 
SP says its representative asked Ms B questions to be able to complete the demands and 
needs questionnaire. It says the call was short as she had already provided most of the 
information. It says its representative asked Ms B to declare all previous claims or losses in 
the last six years whether covered by insurance or not. It says its representative didnt 
advise Ms B that the disclosures were limited to the UK or that she neednt declare certain 
claims or losses. SP says Ms B didnt declare any previous claims during the call. 
Clearly the accounts of what was discussed differ between Ms B and SPs representative. I 
dont dispute the veracity of either account. But there is no call recording or other record to 
determine exactly what was said. My findings are therefore based on the information that is 
available and what I consider reasonable based on the balance of probabilities. 
The purpose of the call was to obtain answers to the questions Ms B hadnt given a 
response to. Shed already had sight of the questionnaire, which included the question about 
previous claims. What Ms B describes being told is clearly at odds with the question set out 
in the questionnaire. This will have meant SPs representative going off-script and essentially 
not asking the question required by the demands and needs questionnaire.
Ms Bs representative says that SPs broker said what Ms B had recalled:
wasnt the sort of thing hed normally say but he couldnt say with certainty that he hadnt. 
I acknowledge what Ms Bs representative says about his conversation with the broker. But 
on balance I dont think this reliably shows that SP told or indicated to Ms B that she neednt 
disclose the claim from 2016. The questionnaire clearly requests information about all 
claims. There are no exceptions listed. On the balance of probabilities I think its unlikely that 
the broker wouldve told Ms B she neednt declare claims that were required as part of the 
insurance application. 
Ms Bs first language isnt English. Her representative makes the point that she didnt know 
the meaning of the word loss in relation to an insurance claim at the time of the phone call 
with SP. 
I have thought about whether the answers Ms B gave couldve been impacted by a lack of 
understanding. I dont think it did. I say this because theres no record of Ms B mentioning a 
lack of understanding about the questions she was being asked. Id expect a reasonable 
person to say they didnt understand and ask for help. Based on the evidence provided this 
wasnt something that was brought to SPs attention.      
  
Following the phone call, SP emailed Ms B with its insurance recommendation. This 
provided details of the cover, the cost of the premium amongst other information which says:
This policy is subject to the following: 
Statement of Fact: Following inception of the policy, the insurers will issue a Statement of 
Fact, which contains some underwriting statements based on information you have provided. 
It is important to check the statement thoroughly to ensure it is both correct and complete as 
any inaccuracies or omissions could mean that the cover we have arranged is inadequate or 
even invalid. If any of the information needs to be changed, or you have forgotten to tell us 
something, please contact us immediately.
This quotation is based upon the information you have provided to us, details of which areattached. If you wish to proceed with cover, you must be sure that:
You took reasonable care to answer all questions put to you about your insurance fully,
honestly and to the best of your knowledge. If you did not understand the meaning of any 
question, or if you did not know the answer, it is vital that you tell us;
Please note that failure to provide full and accurate information may result in your insurer
taking any one of the following actions: rejecting a claim; only paying part of a claim;
cancelling your policy; imposing additional policy terms and conditions and/or charging an
additional premium.
The instructions are clear that Ms B should inform SP if she didnt understand the meaning 
of any question. From the evidence provided she didnt raise any concerns. 
The statement of fact sent to Ms B says:
1) Declarations about you: 
e) Not had any claims or losses in the last 5 years 
In this same email to Ms B, SP confirms its attaching the following documents:
A copy of our internal Demands and Needs Questionnaire, which contains the details 
that we have supplied to insurers on your behalf and which forms the basis of your insurance 
policy.
Please read these documents carefully to ensure that they meet your requirements.
The questionnaire that was returned to Ms B confirms she had declared no previous claims 
over the past six years.
Ms Bs representative says she was provided with some cover, following the theft in France 
in 2016, by her bank. He says this was offered as a purchase protection benefit separately 
from any bundled travel insurance. He says there was no reason Ms B should have seen it 
as a claim, particularly given the phone conversation with SP where she was told it was UK 
claims only that need declaring. 
I have thought about this, and whether it shows the 2016 claim isnt something Ms B 
shouldve expected to declare. But I dont think it does. The questionnaire asks for full details 
of all claims in the last six years. There are no caveats just an instruction that details about 
all claims including travel and legal protection insurance should be provided.
Having considered all of this, I think that its more likely than not that Ms B was asked to 
provide details about all claims over the past six years when she discussed this with SP over 
the phone.
She also had sight of the claims question prior to and after her insurance application was 
completed. Within the information she received she was prompted several times to ensure 
her understanding, completeness and accuracy of the information she had provided. 
   Im sure this has been a very distressing time for Ms B, and I sympathise with the loss that 
shes suffered. But I dont think shes shown that SP treated her unfairly or failed to carry out 
its duties responsibly when acting as her broker. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman