DRN-3253349
The complaint
Mr A complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo (JDW) ended his 
credit agreement with it following a complaint that he didnt receive goods hed ordered. 
What happened
Mr A had a credit facility with JDW which allowed him to purchase goods and services from 
it. Mr A used the facility to purchase a mobile phone in February 2021. He says that a parcel 
was delivered to him, but the phone itself was missing.
After being told about what had happened, JDW decided to end Mr As agreement in March 
2021. It said that Mr A had made a number of similar claims, and it had closed the account 
to prevent further losses to both Mr A and itself. JDW said the account terms and conditions 
allowed it to do this.
Mr A didnt think JDW had acted fairly so he raised a complaint. It responded in April 2021 
maintaining its decision to close the account. It told Mr A he needed to repay the outstanding 
balance of the account. 
Unhappy with what JDW had said, Mr A referred a complaint to this service. He said it wasnt 
fair that he was being asked to repay lending for goods he hadnt received. 
Our investigator thought that the issue Mr A raised with whether or not the goods were 
delivered wasnt something we had the power to consider, broadly speaking, because it 
wasnt about the regulated credit agreement Mr A had with JDW. 
They otherwise concluded that JDW had used its commercial judgement legitimately by 
choosing to end his agreement. And, that JDW had acted fairly by asking Mr A to repay the 
outstanding balance of his account.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the closure of the account wasnt his main concern, but he 
didnt think it fair for JDW to ask him to repay lending for goods he says he didnt receive. 
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint is about a whether or not JDW is acting fairly in relation to a running credit 
account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. As its a regulated agreement, its one 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from JDW carrying on an activity specified under our rules. 
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified.
JDW has acted in two different capacities in dealing with Mr A. Firstly, its provided a 
regulated credit agreement, and we have the power to consider complaints about that. 
However, its also acted as the retailer of goods and services. Thats not something which 
our rules allow me to consider a complaint about.
Whether or not Mr A was provided with the goods he ordered from the retailer is not a 
complaint about JDW carrying on a regulated activity, or an activity specified by our rules 
under DISP 2.3.1R. Its a retail issue. As a result, Im satisfied we have no power to consider 
that point of Mr As complaint.
I can consider whether or not JDW has administered the account fairly insofar as; whether 
its acted fairly by asking Mr A to repay the lending it provided given what he says happened, 
as well as whether it acted reasonably by ending the agreement.
Mr As agreement sets out that JDW would provide lending for certain purchases and also 
the terms on which Mr A would be required to repay that lending. The agreement doesnt 
suggest that Mr A need not repay the lending in the event that he has issues with the service 
provided by the retailer, for example, in the case that he disputes that the goods were 
delivered. I dont think theres any obligation or expectation for JDW to cease pursuit of the 
outstanding lending, even taking into account the issues Mr A has raised. As there is a 
dispute between Mr A and JDW as to whether the goods were delivered, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude JDW had acted unfairly in continuing to pursue the debt in 
those circumstances. As a result, I find that JDW has acted fairly in this respect.
JDW told Mr A that it had taken the decision to end the agreement as a result of a number of 
similar claims hed made about goods it had supplied which had caused it a loss, and it also 
sought to prevent Mr A from experiencing any further financial loss.
The agreement Mr A had with JDW allowed it to suspend or terminate the account with 
immediate effect for various reasons. Having carefully considered what JDW was able to do 
under the agreement insofar as closing the account, as well as its reasons for doing so, I 
dont think its acted unfairly in the circumstances.
Mr A may wish to seek independent advice should he wish to pursue a complaint about 
whether JDW has acted fairly in relation to any retail activities.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman