DRN-2276359
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HDI Global SE-UK will only pay a reduced amount for a fire claim 
under his commercial property owners insurance policy, due to him being underinsured.
 What happened
Mr H took out buildings insurance online for his commercial premises. The buildings sum 
insured was £250,000.
In 2019 he made a claim to HDI after a fire damaged part of the premises. HDI asked Mr H 
to obtain quotes to repair the damage. 
It appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster calculated that the 
reinstatement value of the buildings was £1,090,000. HDI said as Mr H had only insured 
the building for 22.94% of the value at risk, it would only pay 22.94% of the repair costs.
After deducting the £250 excess, HDI offered Mr H £2,216 to settle the claim based on 
repair quotes provided by him.
Mr H complained to HDI. It didnt change its decision. It said under the terms of the policy it 
was entitled to apply average to the claim under an average clause. This means that 
where the sum insured is inadequate, the insurer can reduce its liability for a claim by 
reducing the settlement proportionally.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt 
think HDI had acted fairly in reducing the settlement. She recommended that HDI should 
settle the claim in full less the policy excess.
As HDI didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI has pointed out that the original sale of this policy was conducted via a broker who 
recommended the policy to Mr H. The sum insured was selected by Mr H before the broker 
approached HDI. The broker in question doesnt seem to be linked to HDI in any way which 
means that HDI isnt responsible for the sale the broker made or any errors that might have 
occurred during the sale process. In this decision Im only looking at the complaint against 
HDI as insurer.
Ill usually think its reasonable for an insurer to apply the average clause if the policyholder 
was asked to confirm the total replacement/rebuild cost, given clear guidance as to how to 
calculate that figure and clearly told about the consequences of providing incorrect figures. 
In this case because of the way that the policy was sold to Mr H, HDI wasnt responsible for 
the questions Mr H was asked or for giving him guidance. But it was responsible for making 
him aware that he might only get a reduced settlement if he was under-insured. So Ive 
looked at the documentation provided to Mr H by HDI to see whether it met that requirement.
Mr H was sent a Schedule setting out the main terms of the cover. This simply states that 
the buildings sum insured was £250,000. Along with this was a Statement of Fact setting out 
the information from Mr H on the basis of which HDI had offered cover. There was an 
important warning at the start of the Statement of Fact. It said:
When taking out insurance wholly or mainly for purposes related to your trade, business or 
profession, you have a duty under The Insurance Act 2015 to make a fair presentation of the 
risk. This means that you must disclose every material circumstance which you and/or your 
senior management and/or anyone responsible for arranging your insurance know or ought 
to know. Alternatively, you must disclose sufficient information which would put the insurer 
on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material 
circumstances. You are expected to carry out a reasonable search in order to make a fair 
representation of the risk and will be deemed to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by the search.
Your duty of fair representation applies at the start of the policy, at renewal and when any 
variation of the policy is arranged. If you fail to make a fair representation, the insurer may 
refuse to pay your claim or reduce the settlement amount, depending on the circumstances.
The Statement of Fact then set out various questions asked of Mr H and the answers hed 
given. The questions covered such things as whether hed ever had an insurance policy 
cancelled by the insurer. There were no questions in that document about the sum insured. 
So I dont think the warning set out above was sufficiently clear to put Mr H on notice that 
any claim he made for loss or damage to the building might be reduced if the building sum 
insured was less than the full reinstatement cost.
The other document provided by HDI was the policy itself. At the beginning of the policy was 
similar wording to the above warning. But again I dont think the context was sufficiently clear 
for Mr H to link it to the amount insured.
On page 21 of the policy HDI explained how it would settle claims. It stated:
Basis of Settlement Clauses
1) Average
If the Property covered by this Policy shall at the time of the Damage be collectively of 
greater value than the Sums Insured then the Insured shall be considered as being their 
own insurer for the difference and shall bear a rateable share of the Damage 
accordingly.
I think its particularly important to be very clear when explaining an average clause because 
the insurers position will be counter-intuitive to many people. Unless theyve had the 
position explained to them, policy holders may assume that its up to them if they want to 
insure their property for less than its full value at their own risk and they may think the only 
consequence would be that they would only be paid up to the policy limit in the event of a 
total loss. That appears to have been the impression Mr H had.
Looking at the above average clause I dont think the consequences of under-insurance 
were explained in sufficiently clear terms that Mr H should have been aware that in the event 
of a claim HDI might be entitled to rely on the average clause to reduce the amount payable. 
I also dont think it was adequately highlighted to Mr H by being buried on page 21 of the 37 
page policy document. For that reason I dont think it was fair for HDI to rely on the average 
clause. But it can rely on the sum insured as a total limit as this was clearly pointed out.Putting things right
To put things right I think HDI should settle Mr Hs claim subject to the policy limit. I also 
think in order to treat Mr H fairly HDI should add simple interest at 8% on the amount it 
should have paid out from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HDI Global SE-UK to settle Mr Hs claim in accordance 
with the terms of the policy, but without making any adjustment for under-insurance plus 
simple interest* at 8% on the amount it should have paid out from the date of the claim to 
the date of settlement.
*If HDI Global SE-UK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman