DRN-3071561
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr A took out a mortgage in November 1993 with Nationwide Building Society 
and were sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. 
They say  the policy was mis-sold. 
What happened
The policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, only covered 
Mr A. The initial monthly premium was around £49 which would have been enough to 
provide cover for their monthly mortgage payment in the event of a successful claim on the 
policy. 
Mrs B and Mrs A say they didnt know the PPI was included with their mortgage.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs B and Mr A that their 
complaint is unlikely to be upheld. Theyve disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ive seen that Mrs B and Mr A say they bought the PPI at a meeting. But from what I know 
about the sale, Nationwide didnt provide a personalised recommendation to Mrs B and Mr A 
about the PPI. Yet it still had to give them information about the cover that was clear enough 
for them to make an informed choice.
Ive kept in mind that this PPI sale happened over 28 years ago, with the PPI itself being 
closed in 1995. Its therefore not necessarily surprising that Nationwide no longer has the 
physical records showing that Mrs B and Mr A agreed to buy this PPI, given that 
businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. Im also mindful that recollections of 
events can be difficult after so long.
However, given the many cases weve seen like this one, Im able to say what is more 
likely to have happened. We know PPI was definitely added; theres no dispute about that. 
Also, its very likely seen that Mrs B and Mr A were sent confirmation of the policy cover 
after the sale. This would have also included details about the policy and would have 
given them the option to cancel the cover if they didnt want it.
I accept this is all a long time ago now. But I need to make a decision of what is more 
likely to have happened. And given my experience of these particular sales at this 
particular time, I think Nationwide would have obtained the necessary consent. I also think 
Mrs B and Mr A would have been sent quite a lot of paperwork about the PPI they took 
out, making them aware they had a PPI policy set up with their mortgage.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mrs B and Mr A were told everything 
they ought to have been told. But they both appear to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The 
price seems to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period 
and Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them.
Mr A told us he already had some sickness protection with his job  although 12 months 
sounds very generous given the nature of his employment - whilst both he and Mrs B also 
had some savings they could fall back on. I cant know precisely why they opted for the 
PPI  and as Ive said, I think it was their choice - but their mortgage was a long-term and 
important commitment, secured against their home. The consequences of not being able 
to keep up the mortgage payments therefore could have been serious. In the event of a 
successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in 
addition to  and was much longer than  the benefits Mr A has told us he already enjoyed 
and would avoid the need for him and Mrs B to have to dig into their savings. 
Overall, I think that Mrs B and Mr A probably engaged in some discussions about this sale 
and I think what they bought was in any event of use to them. Im very sorry to have to 
disappoint them but based on what Ive seen this isnt a complaint Im able to uphold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr As complaint. And I therefore dont require Nationwide Building 
Society to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B and Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 
14 February 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman