DRN-4002529
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Having seen a news article Mr M became interested in an investment. He approached what 
he thought was a legitimate investment company, which hes said hed heard of before, and 
completed a contact form. Shortly after, Mr M was contacted by who he thought was an 
employee of the investment company, but he was in fact dealing with a fraudster, who had 
cloned a legitimate investment company.
The fraudster persuaded Mr M to transfer money in the belief that he was investing. Mr M 
initially made a payment for £200, which he made using a credit card he holds with another 
payment service provider. Hes said he received professional looking documentation and 
was given access to a trading platform, where he could see his investment making a profit, 
all of which convinced him.
The fraudsters tried to persuade Mr M to invest more, but he initially declined and he 
received a credit for £100.40, which was for some of the profit that he thought hed made.  
Mr M eventually agreed to invest a further £1,000, when the fraudsters tricked him into 
believing they were able to obtain cryptocurrency at a reduced price. Mr M, still believing 
everything to be genuine, made a payment from his Revolut account, for £1000 on 10 June 
2022, to a digital wallet account he held with another company, from there Mr M sent the 
money onto an account that was controlled by the fraudsters.
Mr M was able to continue to see profits made on his trading platform, but now they were 
significantly more than he had previously seen. Towards the end of June 2022, Mr M has 
said the balance in his trading account was over $11,000 and he wanted to make a 
withdrawal. But the fraudsters told Mr M that he needed to pay £3,000 to balance the 
accounts cash flow, to enable the withdrawal to be made. Mr M has said he fought for over 
two hours with the fraudsters about the need to make this payment, but that he eventually 
agreed. So, on 27 June 2022, with the fraudsters helping him by way of remote access 
software, Mr M made a card payment for £3,000 from his Revolut account, to a 
cryptocurrency wallet in his name and from there the money was sent onto accounts 
controlled by the fraudsters.
Mr M realised hed been scammed when, after hed made the transfer, the fraudster put him 
on hold, hung up the phone and he was unable to contact the fraudster. Mr M made 
payments totalling £4,002.02 from his Revolut account, a breakdown of these transactions is 
listed below;
27/5/2022 £2.02 (faster payment to a digital wallet account held by Mr M)
10/6/2022 £1,000 (faster payment to a digital wallet account held by Mr M)
27/6/2022 £3,000 (card payment to a cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ms name)
Mr M raised the matter with Revolut, who looked into Mr Ms complaint. It issued its final 
response to Mr M on 8 September 2022 not upholding his complaint. In summary it didnt 
think it was at fault for processing the transfers and card payment Mr M had made. It added 
that chargeback rights were not valid for the card payment and that adequate security 
checks and warnings had been provided.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr M then brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, while he recognised Mr M had made the payments as a result of fraud, he didnt 
think Revolut could have been expected to prevent it. He said this because he didnt think 
Revolut had missed an opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a 
scam. Our Investigator added that he didnt think Revolut had acted unreasonably by failing 
to pursue a chargeback in relation to the card payment. Alongside this, it was our 
Investigators view that Revolut wouldnt have been able to recover any of the money Mr M 
had lost, as he had sent the money to accounts held in his name, and then onto the 
fraudsters from there.
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary he thought Revolut had failed to 
protect him from the scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr M has referred to other decisions issued by our service. But I would point out 
that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined 
by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
I can see that in his submissions to us Mr M has referred to the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But the CRM Code doesnt apply in this 
case because, as mentioned by Mr M, Revolut arent signed up to it. Mr M has said he 
wasnt aware at the time there was no protection whatsoever for the funds hed sent.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud.
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised the transactions. Because of this, Revolut had an 
obligation to follow his instructions. Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it 
configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a 
higher than usual risk of fraud.
But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Revolut shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. But on balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions in this case were so unusual or suspicious, that they ought to have alerted Revolut that Mr M was at risk of 
financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through the activity on Mr Ms account, for the twelve months 
leading up to the scam, I can see there are frequent other transactions and movements on 
his account for similar amounts. Im also mindful that the pattern of Mr M topping up his 
account and then transferring/making a payment, as happened here, is typical of how Mr M 
usually operates his account. Alongside this, there were a number of weeks in between the 
payments  so there werent payments being made in very quick succession, which can 
sometimes be the indicator of a fraud. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr M has lost around £4,000, which is a significant amount of 
money. But I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, the payments Mr M made would 
have appeared so remarkable, that I could fairly and reasonably have expected Revolut to 
have been concerned that Mr M may have been at risk and I dont think it could have 
foreseen that he was potentially falling victim to a scam, and not to an extent whereby it 
should have made additional checks on the payments Mr M was making.
Im aware Mr M has said he doesnt believe the banking protocol has been implemented. Im 
persuaded the banking protocol should only be invoked if a payment service provider is 
sufficiently concerned that a fraud is taking place. But considering that Ive found Revolut 
couldnt reasonably have foreseen Mr M was about to fall victim to a scam, it follows that I 
dont conclude that the banking protocol should have been invoked and the police called.
Finally, Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances, money spent via a debit card can 
be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. In this case, I can see the payment 
Mr M made for £3,000 was made using his debit card, with the remainder of the payments 
being done via online banking.
The card payment Mr M made was sent directly to an online cryptocurrency exchange 
account, which was in Mr Ms name, to purchase cryptocurrency before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful 
chargeback claim for the card payment in these circumstances, because the company he 
paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I 
do not think Revolut were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr M.
Ive also thought about the online faster payments Mr M made, but again, as these payments 
were made to an account in his name, but then moved onto accounts fraudsters controlled 
from there, I dont think there would have been any opportunity for Revolut to cover the 
money Mr M sadly lost. 
Mr M has told us the impact this situation has had on him. I dont underestimate Mr Ms 
strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been a very difficult and worrying time 
for him. Its very unfortunate Mr M has lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting and I do have a great deal of sympathy for him. 
But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have 
done more to prevent Mr M from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
ask Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman