DRN-3136710
The complaint
Ms O complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc wont refund the money she 
lost to an investment scammer. 
What happened
Ms O explains that between 2016 to 2018, she made payments from various sources, to 
fund what she thought was a legitimate investment with a company Ill call B. She made 29 
payments totalling £52,217.40 using her Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card. 
When Ms O got subsequently got in touch with Marks & Spencer to explain shed been 
scammed, Marks & Spencer didnt reimburse her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Ms O 
referred her complaint about Marks & Spencer to this office. Our investigator didnt think 
Marks & Spencer should refund Ms Os loss and Ms O didnt agree. She asked that an 
Ombudsman review the complaint and the complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
determination. 
Prior to issuing this decision, I wrote to Marks & Spencer with my provisional thoughts. I 
explained that I thought Ms Os direct payments to B could be covered under s.75 but the 
payments that were made to a different company couldnt be. I agreed with our investigator 
that I didnt think an intervention and warning from Marks & Spencer could have prevented 
Ms O from making the payments. 
Marks & Spencer responded and agreed. It said it would refund £31,006.40 and would also 
add 8% simple interest totalling £11,674.62 to that amount. It explained Ms O has a credit 
card balance of £11,964.42 (which would fluctuate) and it offered to repay this amount from 
the settlement. 
Ms O has not responded to my provisional decision, chaser emails or calls. I will now 
proceed with my determination in absence of a response from her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. That is, Ive decided 
to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Marks & Spencer to have done 
anything further until Ms O notified it of the scam. Then, because these were credit card 
payments, the only avenue for potential recovery of the payments would have been through 
the chargeback scheme.
Our service has clarified the position with Mastercard themselves who have confirmed there 
are very limited options for payments that have gone to any type of investment. The only 
possible avenue for success would be if funds arent credited from the card to the investment 
account. That isnt the argument here as Ms O saw her payments reflected on her trading 
account. Her complaint is that she was the victim of a scam and the scenario she found 
herself in gave no rise to any valid Mastercard chargeback dispute grounds. So I dont think 
these payments were recoverable via the chargeback scheme once they had been made.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Os complaint on the 
basis that Marks & Spencer is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set 
out what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Payments directly to B
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved in each of the payments:
1. Ms O (the debtor)
2. Marks & Spencer (the creditor); 
3. S (the supplier)  as shown on Ms Os Marks & Spencer statement and 
correspondence. 
Im further satisfied that the payments to B were financed by the agreement; that B 
misrepresented to Ms O that they were a legitimate company when they were operating a 
scam and she relied on these misrepresentations to enter into an agreement with them. Im 
further satisfied that no single payments to them were below £100 or in excess of £30,000. 
As a result of this, Im satisfied these payments totalling £31,006.40 should be refunded. 
The remaining payments were sent to a merchant Ill call E. Im satisfied the payments to E 
break the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement required for s.75 to apply. Whilst Ive 
noted B asked Ms O to make these payments, Ms Os disagreement and contractual 
relationship was with B, not E. And B, rather than E, misrepresented their services to Ms O. 
Im therefore satisfied s.75 does not apply to Ms Os payments to E. Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold Ms Os s.75 complaint in part, Ive also thought 
about whether Marks & Spencer could reasonably have prevented all of Ms Os payments in 
dispute (including her payments to E).
Its common ground that Ms O authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammer into instructing Marks & Spencer to make the payments. I accept 
these were authorised payments even though Ms O was tricked. So although she didnt 
intend the money to go to a scammer, Ms O is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I agree with our investigator that the payments between 6 July 2016 and 13 October 2016 
werent all that unusual when considering the normal operation of Ms Os account. These 
were single, monthly payments and didnt deplete Ms Os credit limit. I do also have to take 
into account that this was a credit card account and it isnt uncommon for customers to make 
larger one-off payments then perhaps with their debit cards, so I dont think there was cause 
for Marks & Spencer to have intervened.  
However, Ms Os payment of £10,000 on 15 January 2017 was for a substantial amount. 
And Im satisfied taken by itself, this payment instruction was sufficiently unusual and 
uncharacteristic, such that, Marks & Spencer reasonably ought to have called and spoken to 
Ms O before allowing this payment through, to check everything was in order, to protect her 
against the risk of financial harm. 
During such a conversation with Ms O, I would reasonably expect Marks & Spencer to have 
asked her who the payment was for, what it was for, and for basic surrounding context, and 
to have then proceeded appropriately from there with the intention to disturb or unearth a 
potential fraud or scam. Ive not seen evidence that satisfies me Marks & Spencer did this, in 
circumstances where I think it should have.
I cant be certain  if Marks & Spencer had done this as I think it reasonably ought to have  
whether this would have made a difference. Where I cant be certain about something like 
this, I need to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
based on what I think most likely would have happened, bearing in mind all the available 
evidence. And here, I think if Marks & Spencer had appropriately spoken to Ms O before 
allowing this payment through, it most likely would not have made a difference. I say this 
because Ms O confirmed she researched B prior to investing with them and had seen no bad reviews. By the time of her January 2017 payment, she had been trading with them for 
six months without concern and appears to have been satisfied with her investment. 
Ive also noted that Ms O was given a warning by another bank (Bank B) about payments it 
suspected were going towards a scam company in 2019. Here Ms O wasnt honest with 
Bank B when it questioned her about the purpose of her payments. But in any event, Bank B 
gave Ms O a very clear warning that she had likely fallen victim to a scam, refused to make 
the payment and she was still adamant about making the payment and became frustrated by 
Bank Bs decision. 
I appreciate Bank B intervened in 2019 and the payment here was in 2017 and I appreciate 
what Ms O said about her state of mind at the time and why she believes an earlier 
intervention would have made a difference but Im not persuaded of this. By 2019, shed 
already lost a substantial sum of money to B and explained she was coached by someone 
who had contacted her to offer help with recovering her money. 
Ive taken what Ms O has said into consideration. But Im not persuaded that any meaningful 
warning from Marks & Spencer would have prevented the transaction (or subsequent 
transactions). And I dont think it would have reasonably refused her instruction altogether. I 
think Ms O would have likely alleviated any of Marks & Spencers concerns and proceeded 
with her payment.
It follows that I dont think any reasonable intervention would have made a difference here. 
I appreciate Ms O may be disappointed with this outcome. But I can only uphold this 
complaint in full if Im satisfied Marks & Spencer did something wrong that caused her loss. 
And in this case, whilst I sympathise with Ms Os position, for the reasons Ive explained, Im 
not persuaded Marks & Spencer can fairly be held responsible for all of Ms Os losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should:
Refund Ms Os payments to B totalling £31,006.40
Pay 8% simple interest per year, totalling £11,674.62 (lawfully deductible tax already 
discounted)
Should Ms O wish to repay the balance on her credit card with this payment, she should 
instruct Marks & Spencer to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman