DRN-2573842
The complaint
Miss T complains about eleven loans that she took out with Western Circle Limited, trading
as Cashfloat, (WCL), which she said were unaffordable.  
What happened
Miss T was given eleven loans by WCL between June 2016 and July 2018. All the loans 
except Loan 11 have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Miss T is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of 
monthly 
repayments
1. 5/6/16 22/7/16 £200 2
2. 12/9/16 14/9/16 £300 2
3. 2/12/16 23/12/16 £200 1
4. 26/12/16 24/2/17 £200 2
5. 1/4/17 23/5/17 £400 3
6. 13/8/17 25/8/17 £300 2
7. 26/8/17 24/11/17 £400 3
8. 24/11/17 23/1/18 £600 4
9. 3/4/18 26/4/18 £200 2
10. 3/5/18 24/7/18 £400 3
11. 24/7/18 Unpaid £600 4
Miss T said that she had taken out payday loans with WCL because she was in financial 
difficulty due to having a three year high cost loan with another company and she had 
recently changed her job and received a lower income. Although she paid back all her 
payday loans with WCL (excluding her most recent loan), she had been using its loans and 
others to payback each payday loan company including WCL each month. In August 2018, 
she began missing payments on her most recent loan with WCL as she just could not afford 
it. By this time, she had about another eight loans with different companies, all of which she 
was struggling to pay back and was continuously missing payments. She complained to 
WCL and it offered her a £600 reduction on her outstanding loan of £900. However, she 
believed this was unfair. Not once did WCL check her credit history again following her first 
loan with it. If WCL had checked it would have seen that she had outstanding debts with 
other companies, and her credit rating was very poor. The situation has caused her 
significant distress.
WCL said in its final response letter that it had carried out a thorough review of Miss Ts
account and determined that it had followed all its processes and conducted a
creditworthiness and affordability assessment on each loan application made by Miss T. Its
calculations were based on the income and expenditure information that Miss T provided in
each of her loan applications together with information about Miss Ts monthly credit
commitments received from credit reference agencies. This demonstrated that her net
monthly income of between £1,400 and £1,450 left her with sufficient funds to comfortably
cover the agreed repayments on each of her loans, without jeopardising her existing credit
commitments and priority living expenses. As Miss T stated that she was living with
parents, her living expenses were more likely to be discretionary. But having taken all
Miss Ts comments on board and as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Miss T a refund of £600.
As there was an outstanding balance on Loan 11, this amount would be used to reduce
Miss Ts debt, meaning that her outstanding balance would be reduced to £356.05.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ts complaint about Loans 5 to 11 should be
upheld. He noted that by Loan 5, Miss Ts overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had
become persistently reliant on short-term loans. He said this because:
 Miss T had taken five loans in just under ten months;
 The amounts she was borrowing varied but didnt significantly and consistently decrease   
over this period and for the rest of the borrowing relationship with WCL;
So, in the adjudicators view, the pattern of lending itself showed that the loans from Loan 5  
were unsustainable.
WCL disagreed and said that Loans 5 onwards were not lent irresponsibly for the following 
reasons:
- Miss Ts borrowing was of low value, with only two of the loans being above £400.
- These loans were repaid over short periods of time, in many cases, earlier than 
scheduled.
- There was a number of small gaps in between the loans.
- Miss T had declared that she was living with her parents, meaning that her non-
discretionary outgoings were low, and she had adequate disposable income to cover 
her loan repayments.
- It believed that its underwriting met with the requirements of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and it did not lend irresponsibly from Loan 5.
As this complaint wasnt resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss T 
and to WCL on 8 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that I was sorry to hear that Miss Ts health had been affected as a result of her 
borrowing.I noted that when WCL lent to Miss T the regulator was the FCA and relevant regulations 
and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC contained 
guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
WCL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that WCL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included: 
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important for me to say that WCL was required to establish whether 
Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to have been able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ts complaint.
WCL had told us that its affordability assessment required Miss T to give it full details of her 
monthly income and outgoings. It had tested Miss Ts declared outgoings using statistical 
data and if the data had produced a higher figure, it had used the higher outgoings figure in 
its assessment. 
WCL had also taken account of the outstanding borrowings and other credit balances stated 
by Miss T and had calculated an up to date monthly repayment figure for each credit item. Its 
affordability checks only approved a loan if the total of all Miss Ts monthly credit 
repayments, together with all her other living expenses, had left her with sufficient 
disposable income to comfortably afford her loan repayments to it. As part of this affordability assessment, it had ensured that Miss T had a reasonable buffer of disposable income over 
and above her expected living expenses and credit commitments. WCL had confirmed that 
Miss T had sufficient disposable income to make the repayments on her loans as well as to 
pay her essential living costs and repayments on previous outstanding credit. WCL was able 
to accept Miss Ts figures for her living costs as shed stated that she was living with her 
parents, with no dependents. There were regular gaps between the loans, indicating that 
Miss T wasnt caught in a harmful debt cycle and forced to repay one loan with another. With 
the exception of her final loan, Miss T had repaid all loans on time,
WCL had provided this Service with its detailed credit checks for Loans 1 to 3. WCL said that 
these checks showed that no new defaults were registered on Miss Ts account within the 
previous 36 months. She also had no bankruptcies, debt management plans, Individual 
Voluntary Arrangements or unsatisfied County Court Judgements (CCJs) registered on her 
record. Miss Ts credit profile for Loan 4 onwards was verified and her credit profile had 
continued to be satisfactory, with no defaults or CCJs registered. But the reports for Loans 4 
onwards were no longer available.
We hadnt received a detailed credit report from Miss T. So, I couldnt say that there was 
anything on that report at the time of her loan applications that I thought should have 
concerned WCL.
Id thought about whether WCLs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that for 
Loan 1, Miss T had needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £126 to repay 
the loan over two months. 
WCL had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Miss T. It had asked for 
her income which Miss T had declared as £1,450 and for her outgoings. WCL had asked for 
details of Miss Ts expenditure on food, utilities, rent, travel, other credit commitments and 
loan repayments. These had totalled £550. Miss T had declared loan repayments of £380. I 
could see on WCLs credit checks that Miss T had two unsecured loans with total monthly 
repayments around this amount. There were no short term loans on the checks. I could also 
see there were two defaulted accounts and a county court judgement from four years prior to 
the loan application, but these had been satisfied in 2014. I didnt think these ought to have 
caused WCL additional concerns in view of their age. And I didnt think it would have been 
unreasonable for WCL to have been more interested in Miss Ts recent credit history for the 
purposes of assessing whether Loan 1 was affordable. So, I didnt think the results of WCLs 
credit checks should have caused it additional concerns.
Altogether, I didnt think there was enough in the information it had seen for WCL to think 
that Loan 1 would have been unaffordable for Miss T. And I didnt think the monthly 
repayment amounts of around £126 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused 
Miss T financial difficulty. 
Given Miss Ts repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time 
and that this was her first loan with WCL, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for 
WCL to have asked Miss T for the amount of information that would have been needed to 
show the loan was unsustainable. 
So, I didnt think WCL was wrong to give Loan 1 to Miss T.
Id noted that Miss T had taken out Loan 2 around seven weeks after repaying Loan 1 and 
shed taken out Loan 3 almost three months after repaying Loan 2. I again thought that 
WCLs checks for these loans were proportionate. The information Miss T gave about her 
income and expenses indicated that the repayments would be affordable, and Miss T had repaid Loan 1 on the due date and Loan 2 early. Id also reviewed WCLs credit checks for 
both loans. Whilst Miss Ts credit commitments were higher than shed declared and might 
have caused WCL some concerns, overall, I didnt think those concerns would have been 
enough at the time to have meant Loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been given. 
And I didnt think the monthly repayment amounts of between £220 and £234 were so large 
that it was obvious they wouldve caused Miss T financial difficulty. 
Overall, given Miss Ts repayment amounts and what was apparent about her circumstances 
at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to have asked her for the 
amount of information that would have been needed to show Loans 2 and 3 were 
unsustainable. 
So, I couldnt say it was unfair for WCL to have provided Miss T with Loans 2 and 3.
Miss T had paid Loan 3 early and shed borrowed Loan 4 just three days after repaying  
Loan 3. Id thought this might have caused WCL some concerns. But the loan amount hadnt 
increased, and the loan repayment amounts werent so large that it was obvious they 
wouldve caused Miss T financial difficulty. The information Miss T gave about her income 
and expenses indicated that the repayments would be affordable. On balance, I didnt think 
any concerns should have reached the point where further, more detailed checks would 
have been proportionate. So, I couldnt say it was unfair for WCL to have provided Miss T 
with Loan 4.
Our adjudicator thought that by Loan 5, Miss Ts overall pattern of borrowing suggested she 
had become persistently reliant on short term loans. And so WCL shouldnt have lent any 
further. But I didn't think those concerns should have resulted in the lender declining       
Miss Ts application for Loan 5 out of hand. But I did think Miss Ts pattern of borrowing 
should have caused some concerns to WCL and should have led to better checks before 
Loan 5. 
Loan 5 was Miss Ts fifth loan in around ten months. And the loan amount was the highest 
shed borrowed from WCL and she was extending the length of time shed be indebted to 
WCL. I thought that by the time of Loan 5 WCL should have been concerned that Miss T 
might have been reliant on its lending and that it should have realised that it couldnt safely 
rely on the information Miss T had provided about her finances. So, I didnt think it was 
reasonable for WCL to have agreed to lend Loan 5 to Miss T without further checks. 
Id appreciated that Miss T had managed to repay her earlier loans on the due date or 
earlier, but I didnt think successfully repaying loans automatically meant that Miss T had 
managed to do so in a sustainable way. Miss Ts declared income was still £1,450 and her 
declared expenses were still £550, but I thought WCL ought to have queried why someone 
with such a relatively large proportion of available income would have needed to borrow 
expensive credit again. So, altogether, I thought WCL ought to have taken steps to have 
independently verified Miss Ts true financial position.
Miss T had provided a transaction list from her bank from around the time of Loan 5. I 
thought it was reasonable to rely on this to see what better checks would have likely shown. 
I could see that proportionate checks on Loan 5 would most likely have shown that Miss Ts 
income was a little less than declared at £1,425 but her credit commitments were 
substantially higher. From the transaction list it was clear that Miss T had been facing 
significant problems managing her money for some time. She was borrowing heavily from 
other high cost credit lenders. I thought that the amount of Miss Ts outstanding high cost 
credit should have put WCL on notice that Miss T was having serious problems managing 
her money. And I didnt think it was reasonable for WCL to have concluded that Loan 5 could be repaid in a sustainable manner. So, I thought it was wrong for WCL to have given Loan 5 
to Miss T.
And I thought WCL should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information Miss T 
had provided about her finances before Loan 6 and it ought again to have taken steps to 
have independently verified Miss Ts true financial position. Again, better checks would have 
shown that Miss Ts income had reduced to £1,218. She still had several outstanding loans 
from other high cost credit providers. And I thought that the amount of Miss Ts outstanding 
high cost credit should have put WCL on notice that Miss T was still having serious problems 
managing her money. And I didnt think it was reasonable for WCL to have concluded that 
Loan 6 could be repaid in a sustainable manner or that Miss T could afford to repay Loan 6. 
So, I didnt think WCL would have lent Loan 6 to Miss T if it had taken her financial position 
more carefully into account.
Id also looked at the overall pattern of WCLs lending history with Miss T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which the lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so WCL should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ts 
case, I thought that this point had been reached by Loan 7. I said this because:
- Miss T had taken out her first loan of £200 almost 15 months earlier and she was now 
asking for a loan of £400. She hadnt made any inroads into her debt over this time and 
had paid high interest rates to, in effect, service a debt to WCL over an extended period. 
I also noted that Miss Ts loan amounts had never reduced from her initial loan amount 
of £200.
- Miss T had repaid some of her loans early. I thought that behaviour should have caused 
concerns to WCL. That might be the sort of behaviour that would have indicated that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis.
- There were some small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being granted. 
But I didnt think it would have been reasonable for WCL to have concluded that any of 
these gaps was an indication that Miss Ts finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required her previous loans. 
- Loan 7 was the second time that Miss T needed to borrow from WCL very shortly after 
repaying a loan to it. I thought it was likely that she was borrowing further from WCL in 
order to fill a hole in her finances that was made by making repayments to the lender. 
This wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. 
- Loan 7 was Miss Ts seventh loan in almost 15 months. When a consumer had been 
borrowing short term loans with very few breaks over a number of months, I thought this 
showed that the loans werent being used in the way that they were intended to be used. 
It should have concerned WCL that Miss T wasnt using these loans to meet a one off 
shortfall in her income but rather it was likely she needed to borrow to meet an ongoing 
need.
I could see that as WCL didnt stop lending at this point, Miss T went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further eleven months. I thought that Miss T lost out because WCL had continued 
to provide borrowing from Loan 7 onwards because:
  these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ts indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.  the length of time that Miss T had been taking out short term loans was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans. 
  The fact that most of the loans were repaid didnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, 
or without causing Miss T undue difficulty. 
After Loan 7, with the exception of the two months break between Loan 8 being repaid and 
Loan 9 being taken, the other loans were all taken within days of the previous loan being 
repaid. Also, with the exception of Loan 9, the loan amounts borrowed were the same as 
Loan 7 or larger. Loans 8 and 11 were for £600. So, the monthly repayments had also 
increased, and the repayment periods had also lengthened for these loans to four monthly 
repayments. And following the first repayment for Loan 11, WCL was told that Miss T was 
applying for an IVA.
Id noted that WCL had said that Miss T had sufficient disposable income to make the 
repayments on her loans as well as to pay her essential living costs and repayments on 
previous outstanding credit. But WCL was required to establish whether Miss T could 
sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. And WCL would know from previous decisions (as well as 
what was set out on our website) that there were cases where this service considered the 
overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan. 
When a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most likely 
that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As WCL would know, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here. 
So, subject to any further representations by Miss T or WCL my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part in relation to Loans 5 to 11. I intended to order 
WCL to put things right as set out below.
In deciding what redress WCL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss T from Loan 5, as I was satisfied it ought to 
have done. Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss T might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she might not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss T would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce WCLs liability in this case for what I was 
satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.putting things right  what WCL needs to do
WCL needs to:-
1a) refund the interest and fees Miss T paid for Loans 5 to 10; 
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; 
c) remove any adverse information about Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Ts credit file; and
d) remove all information about Loans 7 to 10 from Miss Ts credit file. 
I understand that Loan 11 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Miss T back into the 
position she would have been had Loan 11 not been agreed for her, WCL needs to ensure 
that Miss T only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, she should not 
pay any interest or charges for Loan 11. So, WCL needs to: 
e) remove any interest and charges applied to Loan 11; 
f) treat all payments that Miss T has made towards Loan 11 as payments towards the 
principal borrowed; 
g) remove any information about Loan 11 from Miss Ts credit file, once it has been settled
. 
If there is a capital balance outstanding on Loan 11 after steps e) and f) have been taken, 
WCL can use the refunds from steps 1a) and b) above to reduce this balance and any 
remaining refund should be paid to Miss T. If after applying the refunds, there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then WCL needs to treat Miss T fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with her. 
If Loan 11 has been sold to a third party, then WCL needs to buy this debt back before 
deducting any refunds. If it doesnt do this, or cant do this, then it needs to work with the 
debt owner to bring about steps e) to g) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If WCL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Neither Miss T nor WCL provided a response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
 
Given that Miss T and WCL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require WCL to pay Miss T some compensation and take the steps set 
out below.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, to:
1a) refund the interest and fees Miss T paid for Loans 5 to 10; 
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; 
c) remove any adverse information about Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Ts credit file; and
d) remove all information about Loans 7 to 10 from Miss Ts credit file. 
I understand that Loan 11 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Miss T back into the 
position she would have been had Loan 11 not been agreed for her, WCL needs to ensure 
that Miss T only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, she should not 
pay any interest or charges for Loan 11. So, WCL needs to: 
e) remove any interest and charges applied to Loan 11; 
f) treat all payments that Miss T has made towards Loan 11 as payments towards the 
principal borrowed; 
g) remove any information about Loan 11 from Miss Ts credit file, once it has been settled
. 
If there is a capital balance outstanding on Loan 11 after steps e) and f) have been taken, 
WCL can use the refunds from steps 1a) and b) above to reduce this balance and any 
remaining refund should be paid to Miss T. If after applying the refunds, there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then WCL needs to treat Miss T fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with her. 
If Loan 11 has been sold to a third party, then WCL needs to buy this debt back before 
deducting any refunds. If it doesnt do this, or cant do this, then it needs to work with the 
debt owner to bring about steps e) to g) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If WCL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman