DRN-3540392
The complaint
Mr H has complained that QIC unfairly turned down his business interruption insurance 
claim.  QIC has used an agent in its dealings with Mr H. For ease, Ill refer to all the agents 
submissions as being from QIC. 
What happened 
Mr H runs two pubs and held a hospitality business insurance policy with QIC. Mr H claimed 
under the business interruption section of the policy after his business was impacted by 
Covid-19. 
QIC said the policy didnt cover Mr Hs claim. QIC said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of damage or an occurrence of notifiable human disease at the 
premises. But QIC thought that Mr Hs business had been impacted by the Governments 
imposed restrictions rather than because there was any damage to the business premises 
(or any other premises nearby) or because someone at its premises had Covid-19. QIC 
therefore turned down the claim. 
QIC also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance 
test case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Mr Hs policy wording. 
Unhappy with QICs response, Mr H brought its complaint to our service. He has made a 
number of points in support of his claim. I have considered them all but have summarised his 
main points below: 
The Government had told customers to stay away from pubs but not forced them to 
close, which meant he could not claim under his insurance.  
Due to cases of Covid-19 infection among his customers and employees from around 
13 March 2020, he wrote to his local authority on 19 and 20 March 2020 to ask that 
they issue a closure notice for his premises. 
He informed the local authority in those letters of infectious customers on the 
premises, which is surely enough for QIC.
One of his part-time employees was diagnosed with Covid-19 after attending a big 
event (not at the premises) on 13 March 2020. He lived with his father, who was a 
full-time employee at   Mr Hs business. 
A neighbour/customer that lived 100m from one of his pubs, and next door to the 
employee mentioned above, died of Covid-19 in April 2020.  
The Supreme Court found in favour of small businesses insurance claims being met. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He asked Mr H for any other evidence 
he might have to support that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at his premises. 
In response, Mr H said he saw the neighbour/customer mentioned above that week (I 
believe he means the week of, or the week following 13 March 2020); she told him she did 
not feel well but did not know at the time that she had Covid-19.  She later told him, while 
she was in hospital that she had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and she subsequently died. 
Mr H says he is at the premises every day and so could have passed Covid-19 onto his staff 
and customers unknowingly, having been in contact with this person.
Mr H also provided a screenshot of a telephone message that one of his part-time 
employees had been sent home from his main job, as he had been in contact with someone 
diagnosed with Covid-19. He is also aware of other customers who were at the premises 
and subsequently became infected. 
Mr H says the policy does not state how he can prove his claim, there was no self-testing at 
the time and his customers death should be enough evidence. It is also not correct that he 
closed as a result of the Government restrictions; he applied for a closure notice from his 
local authority and subsequently ceased trading. His motives for closing were not a result of 
the Government guidance but because he, his customers and staff had been exposed to 
Covid-19 and he was concerned for their health and welfare. 
The Investigator considered everything provided by Mr H but didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. He didnt think Mr H had shown it was most likely that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at its business premises. 
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Hs business. However, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
QIC has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr Hs claim.
I have considered the whole policy but it is agreed that the relevant part of Mr Hs policy says 
it covers: 
interruption to the business as a result of   
the occurrence at the premises of any human infections or contagious disease 
(excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related 
condition), an outbreak of which the Local or Government Authority has stipulated 
shall be notified to them.
It is not in dispute that Covid-19 is a contagious disease that the Government has stipulated 
should be notified to them. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr Hs claim, the 
interruption to the business would need to be as a result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises. 
The Supreme Court in the test case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an 
individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. So in this case, there would have to have 
been someone diagnosable with Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. As Mr H has 
said, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
Mr H said a part-time member of staff had been diagnosed with Covid-19 after working a 
large event (not at the premises) on 13 March 2020. He has also provided a screenshot of a 
telephone message dated 20 March 2020, that (I believe) the same person had been sent 
home (from a different job) as he had been in contact with someone diagnosed with Covid-
19. However, Mr H has not said this person had been at the premises between 13 and 20 
March 2020, when the Government decided that pubs should close. 
Similarly, Mr H has not said that the neighbour/customer that he was in contact with and who 
lived nearby, was at the premises in the time leading up to the decision that pubs should 
close. And while Mr H was in contact with her, he has not said he was ill with Covid-19.  
I note the comments made by Mr H that the disease was highly prevalent at the time of the 
closure in March 2020. But I do not consider this is enough to demonstrate that it is more 
likely than not that it occurred at his premises. 
I also note Mr H applied for a closure order in 19/20 March 2020. I have seen the response 
from his local authority, which said it would need evidence in order to issue a closure order 
and have contacted Public Health England for the information. As far as I am aware, no 
notice was issued and Mr Hs premises were not required to close until after the  
Governments announcement on 20 March 2020.  
Whilst it might be that someone who had Covid-19 was at the premises prior to its closure, it 
is also strongly possible that this did not happen. Mr H has not been able to point to any 
specific evidence that someone with the disease was at the premises. I note Mr Hs 
comments that there was limited access to testing at this point in time. I am also conscious 
of the fact that not everyone would have actually displayed symptoms of the disease. But 
without any specific evidence that there was more likely than not an occurrence of Covid-19 
at Mr Hs premises, I am unable to conclude that he has demonstrated he has a valid claim. 
Mr H also says that the Supreme Court found in favour of small businesses and so the claim 
should be met. The FCA test case did not consider clauses requiring the disease to only be 
at the premises, only ones where the disease is required to occur within a specified radius of 
the premises. And the FCA statements also made clear that many business insurance 
policies would not provide cover for the effects of Covid-19. 
It follows that I consider that QICs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, 
and in all the circumstances of this case is not unfair or unreasonable. I appreciate this isnt 
the outcome Mr H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont 
think I can fairly require QIC to pay his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman