DRN-3839111
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under 
their business protection insurance policy, and it caused delays in coming to this decision.
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
As the detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties, Ill only provide a 
summary of the key events here.
G has held business protection insurance for several years, which was arranged through a 
broker, who Ill refer to as B. In 2019 and 2020, G was in dispute with one of their 
shareholders and legal threats had been made against them. They notified B who, in turn, 
notified the insurers.
In September 2020, B renewed Gs insurance with AXA. B told G it had notified AXA of the 
ongoing dispute with the shareholder and assured G there was cover under the policy 
should a claim arise.
In February 2021, G made a claim to defend the legal action being brought against them by 
the shareholder.
AXA considered the claim, but in August 2021 it was declined. AXA said it hadnt been 
notified of the ongoing threats and, if it had, it wouldve added a specific matter exclusion to 
the policy for any claims caused by or arising from this shareholder. As G hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the risk at inception of the policy, AXA said it would treat the policy as if it 
had included the exclusion and decline the claim.
G were unhappy with this decision, as they disclosed everything to B whod said it had been 
passed on to AXA. So there wasnt anything more G couldve done. They were also unhappy 
with the length of time AXA took to make this decision. They want it to reimburse the legal 
costs they incurred during this time as, had they known the claim was going to be declined, 
they wouldve looked for a cheaper alternative to defend themselves rather than appointing 
the company solicitor.
G raised a complaint, which AXA partially upheld. It said the claim couldve been handled 
more promptly and it offered an apology for that. But its decision to add the exclusion and 
decline the claim was maintained.
As G remained unhappy, they brought the complaint to our service. But our investigator 
didnt uphold it. He didnt think AXA had been provided with a fair presentation of the risk it 
was insuring, and so it was fair for AXA to decline the claim. He also found that, whilst the 
claim had taken longer than hed expected it to, he didnt think G had been inconvenienced 
in a way that would result in a reward of compensation.
As G didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and in November 2022, I issued the 
following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Claims decision
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015 which requires a commercial 
policyholder to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy.
This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgement of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
G were aware of the shareholders threats, and I think its fair to say this is something that 
would be material to AXAs decision whether to take on the risk, and on what terms. But 
although G did disclose it to B, this doesnt appear to have been passed onto AXA. I can see 
in AXAs internal report it says:
We have seen a copy of an email from the broker to the Insured dated 29 October 
2021 in which they confirm the cover and state I have also informed AXA, that there 
may be a potential threat from one of the [shareholder]. AXA have noted this on their 
system and confirmed if it does develop to inform them. We have contacted 
underwriters who have a recording of a call from brokers in which the broker has 
raised other matters referred to in the email of 29 October 2021 but does not mention 
the threat of a claim from the [shareholder].
From the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that AXA received a fair presentation of 
the risk. The Insurance Act 2015 says:
The insurer has a remedy against the insured for a breach of the duty of fair 
presentation only if the insurer shows that, but for the breach, the insurer 
a) would not have entered into the contract of insurance at all, or
b) would have done so only on different terms.
AXA has confirmed that if it had known about the ongoing issues, it wouldve added a 
specific matter exclusion to the policy which wouldve said we will not cover any claim, loss, 
or investigation caused by or arising from any dispute or disagreement with [this 
shareholder].
Where the breach of the duty of fair presentation is not considered to be deliberate or 
reckless, which is the case here, the Insurance Act 2015 says:
If the insurer would have entered into the contract, but on different terms (other than 
terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated as if it had been entered 
into on those different terms if the insurer so requires.
On that basis, AXA is able to apply the exclusion and decline this claim.I do appreciate G will feel that they didnt do anything wrong. But my role is to decide 
whether AXA has done anything wrong or unfair, and I cant fairly say it has. I say this 
because Im not persuaded it was told about the ongoing dispute with the shareholder and 
so it didnt have a fair presentation of the risk when it offered the policy.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Delays
G first notified AXA of their claim in February 2021. But AXA didnt decline it until August 
2021  six months later. AXA acknowledge that it didnt deal with the claim promptly and 
offered an apology. But G doesnt think this goes far enough to put things right given that it 
was incurring legal costs during this time. And Im inclined to agree.
I do appreciate that the investigation into this claim wasnt straight forward. I say this 
because Im aware that AXA needed to review its files in full to determine whether it had in 
fact been notified of this claim by B. This involved listening to recordings of calls it had with 
B. And it also needed to make enquiries with its underwriters to determine what it wouldve 
done had a fair presentation been made. So I do think this claim wouldve taken longer than 
the average case.
But I can see that AXAs claims handlers provided a report in April 2021 setting out its full 
investigation and these questions were answered. So Im satisfied AXA was in a position to 
decline the claim at that point. Its not clear why it took a further four months to communicate 
its decision.
As G are a company, rather than a person, I cant award compensation for stress. But I can 
award compensation for inconvenience if I think theres been one which caused an impact. I 
think G wouldve experienced some inconvenience from not knowing if they were covered for 
their claim because they wouldve spent time chasing AXA for a decision. And for this, they 
should be compensated. Based on what Ive seen, Im inclined to award compensation of 
£150 to put things right.
Im aware G wants AXA to reimburse the legal costs incurred during this time. They say AXA 
told them to continue with the company solicitor and had they known they werent covered; 
they wouldve found a cheaper option.
Im not persuaded that AXA can fairly be held accountable for the legal costs incurred. I say 
this because G wouldve always had to seek legal representation for the claim against them. 
And its their responsibility to mitigate their losses, regardless of whether cover is available 
under their policy or not. So unless G can provide evidence that AXA told them to stay with 
their company solicitor, as well as proof that they wouldnt have done so otherwise and 
information of a cheaper alternative they couldve used for this case, Im not inclined to 
award any consequential losses.
Responses to my provisional decision
G accepted my provisional decision in regard to the claims decision, but theyve provided 
further information in respect to the delays, which Ive summarised below:
In an email dated 18 February 2021, from G to the shareholders solicitors, it says 
[AXAs agents] had received a copy of my email that I sent to B asking if we would 
be allowed to use our existing company solicitor. She was of the view that we should 
as there is clearly too much history for someone else to fully understand in the time available. She will be making that recommendation to AXA.
In a letter from AXAs agents dated 21 February 2021, it says:
Once cover has been confirmed, any decisions about the handling of the claim, 
whether by solicitors instructed on your behalf or not, will require authority from us on 
AXAs behalf. Any fees incurred by other solicitors, counsel, experts or other third 
parties (including any settlements) must be authorised by us on AXAs behalf. As 
stipulated in your policy, you must not accept, negotiate, pay, settle, admit or reject 
any part of the claim. Such steps must only be taken with our authority on AXAs 
behalf.
G says this letter gave them the impression that they shouldnt do anything which 
might prejudice the position of the claim, such as changing the solicitor instructed. So 
they remained with the company solicitor.
G says that if theyd been told in April that cover was declined, they could have taken 
a number of steps. It could have moved its instructions from the large City firm to a 
local one (where the fees would have been materially less). With no insurance cover, 
it would have been for G to deal with the matter as quickly and as cheaply as 
possible. It is more likely that G would have brought the matter in house.
G consider that AXA should pay some contribution to the legal fees incurred.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the further information provided, Im persuaded that it was Gs intention to instruct 
their company solicitor. I say this because the email of 18 February 2021 quoted above 
shows that G wanted to do so and asked AXAs agents for AXAs permission. This email 
doesnt indicate that G wanted to use a local firm or a cheaper alternative. And as Ive 
explained above, G have a responsibility to mitigate their loss, regardless of whether policy 
cover is available. 
Ive reviewed the content of AXAs agents letter dated 21 February 2021 in full. This letter 
makes it clear that AXA has not accepted the claim and is still reviewing whether cover is 
available. It gives no advice as to which solicitor should be used. Furthermore, it says G, or 
their solicitors, should take practical steps to minimise the claim. As such, I believe AXAs 
instruction was that G keep costs as low as possible, so if a cheaper alternative of legal 
representation was available, they shouldve taken it.
Whilst Im satisfied AXA couldve communicated its claims decision sooner  for which Im 
awarding compensation  Im not persuaded it should be responsible for legal costs incurred 
at a time when the claim hadnt been accepted and that wouldve needed to be incurred in 
any event to defend the legal action being pursued. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint and I direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to pay G compensation of £150 for the inconvenience caused by the delays in receiving 
a claims decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman