DRN-2924431
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) closed 
his account without notice and also that they wont reinstate his account as he would like. 
What happened
Mtr T resides overseas and discovered that Amex had closed his credit account. When Mr T 
contacted Amex about this, he was told that the account was closed because it hadnt been 
used for twelve months and that Amex had informed him of their intention to close the 
account via notifications included on Mr Ts statements. Amex also advised Mr T that they 
would be unwilling to reinstate the account and that Mr T would need to apply for a new 
Amex account if he wanted to maintain an account with them.
Mr T wasnt happy about what had happened, especially as he hadnt received the 
statements in the post that Amex referred to. So, he raised a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they were satisfied that they had followed their process 
fairly and that the statements had been sent to Mr Ts correct overseas address. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Amex had sent fair notice 
to Mr T that they intended to close his account and therefore that they hadnt acted 
unreasonably in closing Mr Ts account when they did. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr T has confirmed that he understands that Amex 
would close an account that hadnt been used for some time, but that he feels that the 
closure of his account was unfair in this instance because he didnt receive the paper 
statements that were sent to him at his overseas address that included the notifications from 
Amex that they intended to close his account.
I can appreciate Mr Ts point here, but Amex have confirmed that the statements were sent, 
and it must be noted that this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-
delivery of sent mail. 
Additionally, while I can appreciate that Mr T feels that his overseas status should lead to 
Amex taking greater care to ensure that sent communication is received, I find it difficult not 
to make an opposing conclusion - that as an overseas customer, the onus rested with Mr T 
to ensure that clear lines of communication remained open with Amex, such as, for instance, 
electing to receive statements electronically rather than by mail.
I say this because, where a business is intending to close a customers account, what this 
service would expect would be that the business would send notification of its intent in 
writing to the customer at least two months in advance of the planned account closure.
Ultimately, Amex did that here, and having done so I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably 
censure Amex for closing Mr Ts account when they did.
Mr T is also unhappy that Amex wont reinstate his account given that he has expressed his 
wish for his account to have not been cancelled. Again, I can appreciate Mr Ts position 
here, and I understand that Mr T might find it difficult to open a new Amex account given that 
he resides overseas. 
However, I would only consider instructing Amex to reinstate a closed account where it can 
be demonstrated that Amex have made some form of error when closing the account. And, 
given that Im satisfied that this cant be demonstrated in this instance, I dont feel that I can 
fairly instruct Amex to reinstate Mr Ts account in the manner that he would like.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Amex to take any further action at this time. I hope that 
Mr T will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman