DRN-4302344
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complain that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank wont refund an unauthorised payment taken from their account. 
Mr B, a director of B, brings this complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them 
again here, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus accepts the payment being complained about is unauthorised. But it 
argues it isnt liable, in line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), 
because Mr B was grossly negligent in sharing the One Time Passcode (OTP) used 
(along with the card details, which there is no allegation Mr B shared) to make the 
payment.
Ive considered the circumstances of the scam Mr B fell victim to, to assess whether 
his actions amount to gross negligence. It unfolded as follows: Mr Bs phone had 
been off as it was out of battery. When he turned it on, he had multiple missed calls. 
He then received a call from a scammer claiming to be from Cashplus, saying they 
had been trying to contact him urgently. That seemed plausible to him given the 
missed calls. And they also knew specific details about Bs account  which 
persuaded Mr B he was genuinely speaking to Cashplus.
The caller told Mr B a payment of £7,821.02 had been attempted on Bs account. 
They told him they needed to block the card, stop the transaction, and authorise a 
replacement card. To do that, they said they needed him to confirm a security code 
they would send. So Mr B was primed to expect a code from Cashplus.
Mr B then received the message. The code showed on his phone without him 
opening it. So he shared the code with the scammer without reading the full 
message. And they used the OTP, along with the card details they had already 
obtained, to make (rather than prevent) a payment of £7,821.02. 
While Mr B admits he didnt read the full message, I dont consider that grossly 
negligent in the circumstances. I can see why he believed he was speaking to 
Cashplus, given the information they knew about Bs account. And he was told to 
expect the code. So I dont think it was significantly careless to then share this with 
who he thought was Bs genuine bank. 
It has to be borne in mind that the scammer created a sense of urgency. They told 
Mr B the account was at risk  a social engineering tactic to pressure him to act 
quickly, and follow their instructions, to protect the account. In those circumstances 
I dont think Mr B identified but overlooked an obvious risk, such that he was grossly 
negligent. Instead, he didnt foresee the risk he was being tricked about the purpose 
of the code. 
Cashplus says it should have concerned Mr B that he had so many calls from a 
number that didnt match its own. But in the circumstances, as outlined above, I 
understand why Mr B didnt think to check the number  having been persuaded it 
was Cashplus because of the callers knowledge of the account, and being put under 
pressure due to thinking fraud was being attempted. 
Furthermore, Cashpluss records dont show Mr B said all the missed calls came 
from the same number (as opposed to thinking he had missed calls from parties 
including Cashplus). Regardless, I can see why  in the context of getting a call from 
someone claiming to be Cashplus, saying they had been trying to get hold of him 
urgently  he didnt realise that was a sign of fraud. Instead, it seemed to back up 
what he was told. 
While Cashplus says Mr B didnt initially admit to sharing the OTP, its now accepted 
he did. We know scam victims arent always immediately forthcoming about what 
happened, due to factors such as confusion and embarrassment. I can see Mr B has 
been consistent about what happened since shortly after the scam  also factoring in 
that there was a delay on Cashpluss end looking into things. I consider his 
explanation plausible and likely, and I dont think he was grossly negligent.
Cashplus hasnt alleged that Mr B intentionally failed to abide by the account terms of 
keep Bs personalised security credentials safe. While he shared a passcode, he did 
so thinking he was sharing the code with bank to protect the account from fraud  by 
preventing a payment from being taken. 
As I havent found Mr B allowed the unauthorised payment to be made through a 
failure of gross negligence (or intent), in line with the PSRs, Cashplus is liable for this 
payment. Ive determined it should therefore refund B, with interest for the loss of use 
of the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Bs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank must:
Pay B the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded  I understand this to be £7,821.02; and 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it B accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman