DRN-3800747
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Standard Life Savings Limited delayed a request to transfer her 
pension fund to another provider.
What happened
Mrs B had a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life. She says it took 
Standard Life 12 weeks to comply with her instruction to transfer the funds in the SIPP to 
another provider. She also had an ISA under the same wrapper with Standard Life and it 
was transferred in 8 weeks. She says she lost around £15,000, because of the delays, due 
to changes in the stock market. She complained to Standard Life.
Standard Life looked into her complaint. It said it had completed the transfer out request 
within its service level agreement timeframes and within the Financial Services guidelines. 
It said that Mrs B had requested an in specie transfer for part of the funds in the SIPP and 
this needed to be completed before it could place sells for the other parts of the funds. It 
said this type of transfer could be technical and time consuming but it was satisfied it had 
completed the process in a timely fashion. The industry wide framework indicated that SIPP 
transfers can take on average three to six months.
Mrs B was not satisfied with this response. She referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the part of her complaint which related to her SIPP. Her complaint 
about her ISA is being considered in a separate complaint.
He looked at the timelines in relation to the SIPP transfer. He said he didnt think thered 
been any significant delays in the process up to 3 November 2020. At that date Standard 
Life had received everything it needed to commence the transfer. But, it hadnt actioned the 
request until 13 November. After that date the transfer had been completed within nine 
working days. He thought thered been an unreasonable delay actioning the information 
Standard Life had received on 3 November. If it had actioned that instruction when it 
received it, he thought the transfer wouldve completed on 17 November.
Our investigator said Standard Life should compensate Mrs B for the delay. It should 
determine what the value of her pension would have been if the process had started on 3 
November, the funds transferred on 16 November and received by Mrs Bs new provider on 
17 November.
Standard Life didnt accept what our investigator had said. It pointed out:
Mrs Bs transfer was an in specie transfer. This was a complex process.
It had previously explained to Mrs B and her advisers that the in specie transfer 
would be completed first  before any sells would be placed for the rest of her fund. 
This ensured that she remained invested throughout the process. This was in line 
with what the majority of pension providers did.
Standard Life needed an instruction before it could place sells. The instruction 
received on 3 November related only to the in specie transfer and there was no 
separate instruction to sell funds prior to the completion of the in specie transfer.
The proposed redress had been incorrectly based on this being a cash transfer 
when this was in fact an in specie transfer.
Our investigator considered what Standard Life said but he didnt change his view. He 
thought Standard Life had everything it needed on 3 November to commence the transfer. 
It didnt have to wait until the in specie transfer was completed before placing the sells. 
And, it had ultimately placed the sells before the in specie transfer was complete. It 
couldve offered to do this much earlier.
Mrs B accepted what our investigator said. She didnt provide any further evidence about 
residual charges.
Because Standard Life didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision Im only dealing with that part of 
Mrs Bs complaint which relates to her Standard Life SIPP. Her complaint about the 
Standard Life ISA is being dealt with separately.
Ive considered the sequence of events here and Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why:
Standard Life received a request to transfer Mrs Bs SIPP to another provider on 28 
September 2020. Attached to that request letter was an application form signed by 
Mrs B and a form signed by the new provider. Mrs Bs form was for a full transfer of 
her benefits in cash. The new providers form however indicated that the request 
was for an in specie transfer. There was an asterisk beside this information and it 
referred to a handwritten note on the form which stated:
The Property Funds that are suspended are the only funds to be transferred 
in specie. All other funds are to be transferred in cash.
Standard Life sent a valuation listing for each of the funds in the portfolio to the new 
provider on 6 October 2020. I dont think there was an unreasonable delay providing 
this information to Mrs Bs new provider.
The valuation email set out some very important information about how the 
application would be dealt with. Ive noted in particular, the following information:
In respect of the two property funds which were suspended, the fund 
managers permitted in specie transfers;
One fund on the list could not be converted or sold. Standard Life didnt think 
the new provider could hold this share class of fund but asked for 
confirmation from the new provider. If the new provider couldnt hold this share class of fund then a partial transfer would have to be requested and 
the client would have to agree to that.
Funds would be transferred via paper stock transfer forms.
If any assets were to be sold (rather than an in specie transfer) the authority 
and timing of the sales had to take into account the procedural rules. These 
were that all assets accepted as re-registering funds would be
re-registered first and cash would follow last after all re-registering assets 
had completed and all charges paid.
The email also included the following paragraph:
Clients (sic), their advisers and the new receiving pension providers need 
to be aware that if a fund is disinvested the resulting cash sits in the SIPP 
until the last re-registering asset is complete. The resulting cash is not 
transferred to the new provider. This is why it is particularly relevant to a 
Client/IFA as a financial decision needs to be made as to whether they wish 
to come out of the fund early with the knowledge that the Cash sits in the 
ceding SIPP until the last re-registering asset completes. Or they keep the 
fund in the market until the last re-registering asset is completed and then 
sell an asset(s) down.
Attached to the email was a copy of Standard Lifes document entitled Wrap Quick 
Guide  In specie transfers out  WRAP SIPP. This document included the 
following wording about expected timescales:
Whilst there is no industry guidelines with regards to Inspecie transfers, we 
are very reliant on third party timescales and through on going analysis have 
found that its not unusual for straightforward Inspecie transfers to take six - 
eight weeks.
Having looked at the email of 6 October and the attachment, Im satisfied it set out 
the process that would apply and what the expected timescales were.
The new provider shared this information with Mrs Bs financial adviser who raised a 
query. On 12 October the new provider asked Standard Life for further clarification 
about the asset that could not be sold or converted. The query raised was about 
whether this fund could be left behind until it was tradeable and, in that event, if 
any cash had to remain there too.
Standard Life responded on 25 October. It said that the financial adviser needed to 
contact it to discuss the query. Whilst it did take ten working days to respond to the 
query that had been raised, I have considered that the query raised was not 
straightforward. The SIPP for Wrap terms and conditions stated that Standard Life 
would only agree to a partial transfer if in its reasonable opinion it was cost effective 
for it to process the transfer or to administer the part left behind. In this case, 
Standard Life did agree that a part transfer could be facilitated. So, given the fact 
that the query was not straightforward, I dont think the response timeframes were 
unreasonable.
On 3 November Standard Life received the acceptance from the new provider to 
proceed with the re-registration of the suspended property funds. I havent seen anything to indicate that at this point Mrs B or her advisers had given Standard Life 
an instruction to disinvest the rest of the assets in her SIPP.
Standard Life had made clear in its email of 6 October that it wouldnt disinvest the 
rest of the assets prior to the completion of the in specie transfer unless the 
client/IFA made a decision to do so early. And, if that decision was made early, the 
cash wouldnt be transferred to the new provider until the last re-registering asset 
had been completed. The email set out the reasons why that approach was taken. 
Mrs Bs adviser had received and commented on a copy of that email  so, it 
shouldve been aware of its contents and considered the timing of any 
disinvestment instruction.
The in specie transfer was actioned by Standard Life eight days after it was 
received, and the re-registrations completed on 25 November. I dont think there 
was an unreasonable delay actioning or completing the in specie transfer requests. 
This process can take longer and involves different parties.
The disinvestment instruction was given to Standard Life by Mrs Bs adviser on 13 
November. That was before the in specie transfers had completed. But, because 
Standard Life was aware of the complaint about delays, I can see that it decided to 
check whether Mrs B wanted to make a decision to disinvest before the in specie 
transfer had completed. It didnt have to do that because, as explained above, it had 
already explained the usual process in its email of 6 October. So, Im not persuaded 
that it was required to raise this query with Mrs Bs advisers at all or earlier than it 
did. I think it raised the query at this point because it wanted to ensure that the 
timescales were fully understood  I think that was fair and reasonable.
The sells were placed on 17 November and settled on 24 November. The funds 
were received in Mrs Bs new SIPP on 26 November. I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay acting on the disinvestment instructions.
Having considered everything here, I dont think there was an unreasonable delay 
actioning Mrs Bs request to transfer her pension fund to another provider. So, I 
dont intend to require Standard Life to have to take any further action.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Standard Life Savings Limited.
Mrs B acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. She didnt make any comments. 
Standard Life hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
So I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. I havent received any new or 
further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view, or the 
reasons for my view, as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Standard Life Savings 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman