DRN-3445730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, gave them incorrect 
information about their contractual monthly mortgage payment.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E hold a mortgage with Halifax and have previously struggled to maintain the 
contractual monthly mortgage payment  so the account fell into arrears.
In February 2019, a court granted Halifax a Suspended Possession Order (SPO) for 
Mr and Mrs Es property. Possession was suspended upon Mr and Mrs E paying the 
contractual monthly payment (£2,034.59 at the time) plus a set amount of £609.36 towards 
the outstanding arrears each month  commencing from 1 March 2019. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs E received a letter from Halifax explaining that the interest rate 
on their mortgage was going down. The letter explained that their total monthly payment 
from 1 April 2020 would be £2,032.98. Mr and Mrs E received a further rate reduction letter 
in April 2020. This letter explained that from 1 May 2020 their total monthly payment would 
be £2,018.33. 
Mr and Mrs E changed the amount they pay to Halifax for the mortgage each month to the 
amounts specified on the letters. They say it was never explained by Halifax, despite their 
constant emails showing their belief otherwise, that the total monthly payment amounts 
didnt include the additional payments they were meant to make towards the arrears. Mr and 
Mrs E say if they had been made aware they werent making the required payments towards 
the arrears, they would have increased their monthly payment immediately  as they did in 
August 2021 when they were informed of the correct monthly payment to make by Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs E say that Halifax should have been prompted by the number of letters and 
emails they sent, along with the lower incorrect payments they made, to review the account 
and inform them of the error sooner. They say that because of this mistake their credit files 
have been adversely impacted. Mr and Mrs E have also raised concerns about the length of 
time they spent on a call with Halifax.
Halifax responded to the complaint confirming that Mr and Mrs E hadnt paid the required 
amount towards the arrears since March 2020. It explained its required to let customers 
know of any increases and decreases to the contractual monthly payment which is why it 
sent the letters in March and April 2020. It apologised for any confusion the letters may have 
caused but confirmed the amounts outlined on the letters didnt include any payments 
towards the arrears, which had been required separately by the court under the SPO. 
Halifax explained the new minimum payment to cover the contractual monthly payment and 
the arrears payment would need to be £2,700  but said before this could be agreed Mr and 
Mrs Es income and expenditure would need to be reviewed. It said it had correctly reported 
the conduct of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage account to the credit reference agencies. And didnt 
think the length of the call was unreasonable considering it was to discuss Mr and Mrs Es 
income and expenditure. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the SPO 
clearly stated that Mr and Mrs E needed to meet the contractual monthly payment and pay 
£609.36 towards the arrears each month. They said that whilst the March and April 2020 
letters didnt specify Mr and Mrs Es payments to the arrears werent included in the monthly 
payment figure, they had received arrears letters which confirmed any payments towards the 
arrears were not included in the contractual monthly payment. So, didnt think Halifax had 
done anything wrong. The investigator explained that Halifax had a duty to accurately report 
the conduct of the mortgage account to the credit reference agencies  which it had done  
and didnt think the call was too long considering what was discussed. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said they werent 
told the total monthly payments did not include payments towards the arrears and had 
written to Halifax on a number of occasions making it clear they believed it did. They said 
they had complained about making an overpayment which again indicated their 
understanding and said we had ignored the numerous correspondence sent to Halifax about 
the issue.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided with a copy of the SPO from February 2019. This gives Halifax 
possession of the property but sets out it is to be suspended upon payment of the 
contractual monthly mortgage payment (currently £2,034.59 but his may vary) plus £609.36 
each month towards the arrears of £96,278.44. Having read this document, Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs E would have been aware of their financial situation at the time, and that they 
needed to meet their contractual monthly payment  which could vary  and pay £609.36 
towards the arrears each month.
Ive also seen copies of the letters sent to Mr and Mrs E in March and April 2020. Each of 
these letters explains that the interest rate for Mr and Mrs Es mortgage is changing and then 
outlines what the new total monthly payment will be  this being £2,032.98 and £2,018.33 
respectively. The April 2020 letter also outlines the percentages the reduction in interest rate 
were by  these being 0.50% on 1 April and 0.15% on 1 May 2020. Neither letter mentions 
any payment that needs to be made to the arrears. 
Having reviewed these documents and considered the wording used, I think that they could 
have been clearer and explained that the change to the monthly payment didnt include the 
payments Mr and Mrs E were expected to pay to the arrears. However, I dont think the 
content is enough to say that Mr and Mrs E were unaware they should also be making 
monthly payments of £609.36 to the arrears on the account as well. Ill explain why. 
The SPO clearly sets out the monthly payment as being £2,034.59 (which could vary) and a 
monthly arrears payment of £609.36  giving a total monthly payment of £2,643.95. The 
March and April 2020 letters give total monthly payments of £2,032.98 for April 2020 and 
£2,018.33 for May 2020  giving differences compared to the SPO of approximately £611 
and £625 a month respectively. When considering the reduction in the interest rate of 0.50% 
for April 2020 and 0.15% for May 2020, I dont think it can reasonably be concluded that the 
small interest rate changes would equate to a reduction to the total monthly payment of 
between £611 and £625 a month compared to that of the SPO. 
Even if I accept what Mr and Mrs E have said about thinking the monthly payments outlined 
in the March and April 2020 letters included the £609.36 to be paid to the arrears, I think there were sufficient documents sent to them after these letters were received to evidence 
this was not the case. 
Ive seen copies of the quarterly arrears statements Halifax sent to Mr and Mrs E in May 
2020, August 2020, November 2020, February 2021, May 2021 and August 2021. Each of 
these letters clearly explains that arrears are not collected as part of their monthly payments 
and need to be separately repaid. They also all show the current amount of arrears as 
£85,712.81  an amount which doesnt reduce in each letter  which Im satisfied is enough 
to indicate to Mr and Mrs E that the amount they were paying each month didnt include any 
payments towards the arrears as they expected. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs E have said that Halifax should have been prompted by the 
number of letters and emails they sent, along with the lower payments they made, to review 
the account and correct any misunderstanding sooner  and if they had done so they would 
have been paying the required higher amount sooner. Ive reviewed all the correspondence 
Mr and Mrs E have provided in support of their complaint from April 2020 to June 2021.
Having done so Ive found many of the emails and letters relate to issues not being 
considered as part of this complaint (mainly around obtaining a second charge and the 
process for this), and that there are no correspondence to suggest Mr and Mrs E directly 
queried whether the amount they were paying was enough until June 2021  when they first 
complained about not complying with the SPO. With regards to the emails relating to the 
contractual monthly payment I think Halifax responded to these in a timely manner  despite 
the multiple emails of the same content Mr and Mrs E sent to a number of different email 
addresses associated with Halifax.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs E would have paid the higher monthly payment sooner if they 
had been directly told earlier by Halifax that they werent paying enough. I say this because 
as soon as they were informed, they began making the required higher monthly payment 
which included the payment to the arrears. However, responsibility of managing the 
mortgage account doesnt fall solely to Halifax, Mr and Mrs E must also take steps to ensure 
they are paying the correct amount to the mortgage and the arrears. As explained, I think 
they were provided with enough documentation to understand they werent paying enough 
towards the mortgage and arrears to raise and query this more directly with Halifax  rather 
than waiting for Halifax to infer from a request for overpayments to be returned in an email 
from June 2020, and that they were only paying the contractual monthly payment, to tell 
them they werent meeting their obligations.
I note that Mr and Mrs E have provided a recent rate change letter from February 2022 
which now sets out the contractual monthly payment and the additional payment needed to 
the arrears each month  outlining the total monthly payment they need to make. Halifax 
have explained the reason for the difference between this letter and the letters from March 
and April 2020 is that its Customer Financial Assistance Team  who manage the arrears on 
the account  have requested the payment arrangement for the arrears to be included in the 
rate change letters going forward. Whilst I think this could have been included earlier, to 
make things clearer for Mr and Mrs E, I dont think it is relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint. I say this because as I have explained, I think Mr and Mrs E were given enough 
information to identify they were not making the additional payment to their arrears each 
month.
As Mr and Mrs E have been making their contractual monthly payment, the arrears on the 
account havent increased since April 2020. I understand that Mr and Mrs E would like for 
Halifax to reduce their arrears balance to what it would have been if they had continued to 
make the correct payments (which would have included the £609.36 arrears payment) but I 
dont think this would be fair in the circumstances. I say this because the arrears balance consists of payments that Mr and Mrs E have previously failed to make to the mortgage  
and is always money they would have owed and been expected to pay. 
I would expect for Halifax to allow Mr and Mrs E to come to a new arrangement to clear the 
arrears once it was identified they hadnt been making the correct payments. I can see that 
as of 8 October 2021 Halifax has agreed to a new payment plan which will clear the arrears 
by the end of the mortgage term  which Im satisfied is fair in the circumstances.  
I understand that in reaching this agreement Halifax requested that Mr and Mrs E provide up 
to date income and expenditure details to review whether the new arrangement would be 
affordable and sustainable. I dont think this is unreasonable as I would expect Halifax to 
ensure that any agreement it made wouldnt adversely impact Mr and Mrs E in the future. I 
also note that following Mr and Mrs Es objections to providing income and expenditure 
details over the phone, Halifax agreed for a form to be completed without the usual need to 
speak with Mr and Mrs E  and also later offered to arrange for an external field agent to visit 
their home and complete the form with them. This is in line with what I would expect Halifax 
to do when a customer makes them aware of problems they may have communicating over 
the phone. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs E have said that because of this situation their credit scores 
have been impacted. Halifax has a responsibility to ensure it is reporting accurate 
information to credit reference agencies which fairly reflects the conduct of Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage account. As Mr and Mrs E were not adhering to the payment arrangement agreed 
to in the SPO, I cant fairly say that Halifax has done anything wrong by reporting this to the 
credit reference agencies. However, now that a new arrangement is in place, I would expect 
Halifax to accurately report this is the case  and if it is not, Mr and Mrs E may be able to 
raise this as a new complaint. 
Mr and Mrs E have also raised concerns about the length of time they spent on a call with 
Halifax. Halifax identified the call took place on 8 October 2021 and that it lasted for 1 hour 
and 21 minutes. It says discussions took place about Mr and Mrs Es complaint for 30 
minutes and then the remainder of the call was going through Mr and Mrs Es income and 
expenditure. Halifax has advised that an income and expenditure review will usually take 
around 45 minutes. Mr and Mrs E have provided no further details about the call. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E were on the phone for a long time. However, as explained its 
important that Halifax correctly understand Mr and Mrs Es financial circumstances before 
agreeing to a new payment arrangement. Therefore, whilst the call was long, I dont think 
Halifax have been unreasonable when considering what was being discussed.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman