DRN-2376716
The complaint
Mr A and Miss E are unhappy that Blemain Finance Limited caused a direct debit payment 
to be returned unpaid, and also that the payment was then reported by Blemain Finance 
Limited as a late payment to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr A and Miss E have a credit agreement with Blemain which was being repaid by monthly 
direct debit from Miss Es bank account. In March 2020 the monthly direct debit payment 
was returned unpaid to Blemain from Miss Es bank. Blemain placed negative information on 
Miss Es credit file as a result of this missed payment.
Miss Es bank advised Miss E that Blemain had attempted to take a payment without a direct 
debit mandate being in place. Miss E complained to Blemain about this, but they believed 
that they had supplied a direct debit mandate to Miss Es bank, and so they didnt uphold 
Miss Es complaint.
Miss E wasnt satisfied with Blemains response and so she referred the matter to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They discovered that Blemain had 
supplied a direct debit mandate, but that this mandate had been sent to Miss Es bank in 
April 2018, in anticipation of it being needed in the future. However, because direct debits 
are covered by a dormancy rule, which states that direct debit mandates which are held 
unused should be deleted if they remain unused for 13 months, the mandate which Blemain 
supplied in April 2018 had been deleted by Miss Es bank and a new mandate would need to 
have been supplied.
So, our investigator upheld Mr A and Miss Es complaint and said that Blemain should 
remove the negative reporting from Miss Es credit file and make a payment of £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused.
Blemain accepted the recommendation of our investigator. But while Mr A and Miss E were 
happy with the result of the investigation, they felt that the offer of £100 compensation wasnt 
commensurate with the distress and inconvenience that this matter had caused them. So 
they didnt accept our investigators view and asked that the matter be escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin, I am in agreement with our investigators view with regard upholding this complaint 
on the basis that Blemain attempted to take payment on a direct debit mandate that had 
been cancelled by Miss Es bank due to the dormancy rule. 
This aspect of the complaint is not disputed by any party, and so my assessment of this 
complaint will focus on the £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
recommended by our investigator as the outstanding issue here.
Its clear that Mr A and Miss E feel strongly about what has happened here, and I can 
understand their frustration that the cause of the direct debit payment being missed was not 
understood sooner by Blemain. 
The key thing here is that the underlying dispute has now been resolved. But we also 
consider the wider impact a mistake like this will have on customers. Here, I think its fair to 
say that Mr A and Miss E will have been understandably frustrated and upset by what 
happened here and so its reasonable that Blemain recognises that by compensating them 
for this.
However, having reviewed this case I feel that the recommendation made by our investigator 
of compensation for distress and inconvenience totalling £100 is a fair one. I realise that it 
perhaps isnt what Mr A and Miss E expected, or think Blemain should pay. But the role of 
this service is to take an impartial look at things and our awards in this respect arent in line 
with say, what a court would recommend. Instead, they are based on an independent and 
impartial consideration of a complaint. With that in mind here, Im satisfied that £100 is affair 
amount.
I understand that this wont be the result that Mr A and Miss E were hoping for, but because I 
believe that the amount of compensation recommended by our investigator is fair and in line 
with what our service believes to be appropriate in these circumstances, I wont be asking 
Blemain to take any further action beyond that which they have already agreed in accepting 
the earlier recommendations of our investigator.
My final decision
My final decision is that Blemain Finance Limited should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Miss Es credit file relating to the direct debit in question and should pay £100 to 
Miss E to compensate Mr A and Miss E for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman