DRN-4109597
The complaint
Ms H complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) decision to 
decline her claim under her home insurance policy.   
What happened
Ms H says her ceramic hob was damaged accidentally when an item fell from a cupboard 
above causing the glass to crack. Ms H reported this to AA, but they declined her claim on 
the basis only free-standing cookers were covered  and not a hob built into a worktop. Ms H 
says the policy wording on this was unclear, so she complained. AA responded and 
explained, to be classed as a content, Ms Hs ceramic hob needed to be free-standing, but 
this was inset into the kitchen worktop. They said this meant the ceramic hob would be 
classed as part of the buildings  so accidental damage cover for buildings would be 
required. They said Ms H didnt have this cover so they couldnt progress her claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. She thought AAs decision to decline the claim 
was unreasonable and recommended they settle the claim and pay 8% simple interest. AA 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The accident circumstances dont appear to be in dispute. The dispute 
relates to the interpretation of a specific term within the policy and whether Ms Hs ceramic 
hob falls within this definition. The policy documents show Ms H has accidental damage 
cover for her contents insurance but not her buildings insurance. So, I agree with AAs 
decision not to cover the claim under Ms Hs buildings insurance. Ive then considered 
whether it should be covered under Ms Hs contents insurance.   
 
My starting point is Ms Hs contents insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and defines building as Your home as shown in the Statement of Insurance and, 
if they form part of the property:..fixtures and fittings which belong to you as owner of the 
home 
It defines contents as Household goodsFixtures and fittings which belong to you as 
tenant of your home. The definition of fixtures and fittings includes, Built-in domestic 
appliances. The policy says Ms H is covered for accidental damage to ceramic hobs or 
tops on free-standing cookers. 
Theres a dispute between the parties in relation to the term ceramic hobs or tops on free-
standing cookers. AA say this policy term should be read as, both a ceramic hob or other 
type of top will only be covered under this section if its part of a free-standing cooker. They 
say the part of the term which refers to free-standing applies to both ceramic hobs and 
tops. Ms H believes the term ceramic hobs is exclusive of the free-standing reference in 
the term and she understood this to mean she was covered for a ceramic hob, in its own 
right, as well as tops on a free-standing cooker.   
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), under ICOBS: 2.2.2 R requires 
information from a business to be clear, fair and not misleading. I agree AAs interpretation 
of this section of the policy is one way of reading the term. But I also agree Ms Hs 
interpretation presents another, and not unfair or unreasonable, way of reading the term. 
That being the case, I understand why this led Ms H to believe her ceramic hob, while not 
being part of a free-standing cooker, would be covered under her contents insurance. While I 
accept it might well have been AAs intention for ceramic hobs not to be covered under the 
contents policy unless its part of a free-standing cooker, I believe the wording has left it 
open to a different interpretation  and one which I cant say is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. And on this basis, given the ambiguity, I would look favourably on the party 
that hasnt drafted the wording  in this case, thats Ms H.  
 
I think its also important to point out that, looking at all the policy documents collectively, Im 
persuaded why this wouldve reinforced Ms Hs understanding about her ceramic hob being 
covered under the contents insurance. Ive looked at the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) for Ms Hs contents insurance policy and this says cover is provided for 
loss or damage to contents caused by Accidental damage for bigger electrical and gas 
items in your home such as cookers The IPID for the buildings insurance policy doesnt 
make any reference to circumstances where ceramic hobs or tops might fall within the 
buildings insurance cover. 
AA say its clear the contents cover is for free-standing items  and they say the buildings 
cover would sensibly and reasonably include built-in appliances. I do acknowledge this point, 
but I think theres further ambiguity created by the policy terms and conditions. It says the 
contents section of the policy covers accidental damage to domestic electrical or gas 
equipment or appliances which are not designed to be portable. If AAs argument is that, 
because Ms Hs ceramic hob is built into the worktop, it therefore isnt free-standing, then 
that suggests its also not portable. So, that would appear to fall within the scope of this term 
as the ceramic hob is an appliance which, if I take AAs view that its built-in, would mean it 
isnt designed to be portable. 
Taking this all into account, and given the ambiguity created by the terms and conditions, I 
think AA should settle Ms Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. Given that Ms H has already bought a replacement, AA should pay 8% simple 
interest on the settlement amount.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AA have unfairly declined Ms Hs claim. So they should settle Ms Hs 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
AA should also pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the date Ms H bought 
the replacement hob to the date of settlement. AA should provide Ms H with a certificate 
showing any taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman