DRN-3453713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F as trustees of a pension fund (the trustees) have complained that The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) wrongly applied adjusted unit prices 
when the trust requested a number of investments be encashed. As a result of this the 
trustees feel they have been paid around £18,000 less than they should have been.
What happened
In March 2020 the trustees needed to release some cash to support family members 
affected by the pandemic. They met with their financial adviser who advised them to encash 
a number of the Prudential Trustee Investment Plans (TIPs) held within the trust. On 12 
March 2020 Prudential stated the combined encashment value was just over £303,000. The 
trustees have told our service that they thought this value was effectively guaranteed due to 
the effect of the return being smoothed.
Prudentials process for the encashment of TIPs at the time was to have the disinvestment 
forms signed by both trustees with a wet signature, therefore they had to be returned by 
post.
The trustees signed the forms and scanned them over to the financial adviser on 13 March 
2020 and these were forwarded by post to Prudential on 16 March 2020.
At around 1615 on 17 March 2020 Prudential emailed the adviser to explain that it had 
adjusted the unit prices of the TIPs, effective from that date.
The adjusted unit prices were applied to the encashment requested therefore the total
value of the encashment was less that what the trustees were told earlier in March. The 
encashment completed on 7 April 2020.
The trustees have raised the following complaint points:
Prudential had acted incorrectly when it applied the amended unit prices to their 
request because Prudential would have received the encashment forms earlier in the 
day before the change in the unit price had taken affect.
Their decision to encash was based on the valuation given to them on 12 March 
2020.
Prudentials current process for TIP withdrawals is antiquated as it doesnt accept 
online withdrawal applications. Prudential should also have a process to escalate 
withdrawal requests that have been received ahead of price adjustments.
Prudential failed to contact the trustees to notify them ahead of time of the price 
adjustment or to check if they still wanted to proceed. 
There was a delay in Prudential paying out the encashment value.
Prudential didnt feel it had applied the adjusted unit prices incorrectly and stated it had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the TIPs. However, it did accept it had delayed 
in paying the monies to the trust, so to put things right Prudential calculated an interest 
payment in respect of the delayed withdrawal and also awarded the trustees £150 
compensation to apologise for this.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. In 
summary she was of the view that Prudential hadnt done anything wrong in adjusting the 
unit prices or in applying them to the trustees withdrawal requests.
The trustees didnt agree with the assessment. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The trustees believed the valuation given in March 2020 was guaranteed
When Prudential provided the encashment value of the TIPS in March 2020, I think it would 
have been clear to the trustees and their adviser that the value wasnt guaranteed until the 
encashment forms had been completed and returned to Prudential. Until this point Prudential 
had no reason to start the process for encashment because there could always be the 
possibility of the trustees changing their mind. That is why encashment authority forms exist. 
Furthermore, I think the trustees and the adviser would have been aware that the value 
could always fluctuate and that the smoothing process didnt guarantee any value.
The TIP was invested in Prudentials Prufunds Growth Fund which was subject to 
smoothing. The guide to the smoothing process states that unit price adjustments may be 
applied on a daily and quarterly basis based on the difference between the smoothed value 
of the fund compared to the unsmoothed price  the value of the underlying fund divided by 
the number of units. Where these prices are monitored on a daily basis if the difference 
between the smoothed and unsmoothed process is 10% or more in either direction 
Prudential will apply a unit price adjustment to reduce the gap to 2.5%. This means therefore 
that adjustments can occur at any time before the encashment is locked in, effectively 
meaning the encashment value provided on 12 March 2020 was not guaranteed. As the 
trustees would have had this information its reasonable to think they would have been 
aware of how the smoothing process worked.
Were the encashment forms received by Prudential before the unit prices had been 
adjusted?
The adjusted unit price was applied on the same date Prudential received the encashment 
forms. But the trustees believe the forms would have been received by Prudential earlier 
than the time the email was sent to the financial adviser, which they believe is the point at 
which the adjusted prices took effect. They therefore think the adjustment shouldnt have 
been applied to their withdrawal request. However, it isnt reasonable that any business 
applies its unit prices based on the exact time the encashment forms are received. Logically 
these requests can only be dealt with in bulk after a cut off time. 
The terms and conditions of the TIP in relation to the process of cut off times for withdrawals 
states that for postal application the price applied will be the price on the same date the 
application is received. In this situation the trustees application was received by Prudential 
on 17 March  the same date the unit price adjustment was applied. And while the terms and 
conditions dont specify the exact cut off time, in line with standard industry practice, it is very unlikely this would be the exact time the posted application would have been received in the 
office. Prudentials policy states if all the relevant completed paperwork is received by mid-
day on a working day it would normally process the withdrawal at the price determined later 
that day. If it is received after mid-day it will be processed at the price determined on the 
next working day. Prudential has also confirmed that the relevant cut off time would have 
been the end of the day when markets closed. 
So while I appreciate the forms may have been received before the email was sent to the 
adviser about the change in the unit price, I think given standard business procedures it isnt 
practical to expect Prudential to have applied prices dependent upon the time of day 
individual withdrawal applications were received.
The trustees made their decision to encash based on the value given to them in March 2020
I appreciate the trustees have said they made the decision to encash the TIPs based on the 
valuation Prudential provided on 12 March 2022. However, from the information I have 
looked at it seems the option to encash the investments was something of a necessity for 
the trustees and something that had to happen quickly. I havent been provided with any 
other information about alternative ways the trustees could have released such a large 
amount of money so in my view I dont think the trustees made the decision to encash based 
on the valuation from March 2020 alone. I think this was really one of their only options 
which met their objectives. So regardless of how much the valuation came in at I think they 
would always have gone ahead with the encashment.
Prudentials processes for encashment of TIPs at the time
The trustees have said their adviser was specifically told the forms had to be returned by 
post rather than telling the trustees they could be sent by email. Neither party has been able 
to find the call where this was stated so I cant know exactly what was discussed. However, 
the terms and conditions of the TIPs state that the forms couldve have been returned by 
email but Prudential wasnt obliged to do this unless it was specifically asked to do so.  
Which didnt happen. Therefore, post was the only way of returning the forms.
Furthermore, even if emailing the forms wasnt an option, this Service isnt able to compel a 
business to change its processes nor question why they are the way they are. This is a 
commercial decision and not one we can involve ourselves in.
In addition, while the trustees think Prudential should have notified them of the unit price 
adjustment Prudential wasnt obligated to do this. And given this was set out in the policy 
terms and conditions and smoothing guide this is something the trustees should have been 
mindful of. This also applies to whether Prudential should have checked the trustees would 
have still wanted to continue after the change in the unit price  Prudential didnt have to do 
this and given the potential of unit price adjustments was set out in the terms and conditions 
its reasonable Prudential expected them to already be aware of this.
The delay in paying out the encashment value
As mentioned at the start of this decision Prudential did unnecessarily delay in paying out 
the encashment value and it has accepted this. I am satisfied that the method Prudential 
used to rectify this issue is correct and in line with the approach of this service. I therefore 
dont think Prudential need to do anything further in this respect.
In summary, for the reasons I have set out above, I am of the view that Prudential was 
entitled to alter the unit prices of the TIPs and I think the trustees and their adviser should 
have been aware of this given its set out in the terms and conditions of the TIPs. I therefore dont think it is reasonable for the trustees to think the valuation given to them before they 
had submitted the encashment forms was guaranteed. In addition, having examined the 
process involved and the applicable cut off time I think Prudential acted fairly in applying the 
adjusted unit prices to the trustees encashment request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman