DRN-3603792
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc treated her unfairly when she applied for loans
to support her business.
What happened
Mrs S approached Barclays for a consolidation loan of around £86,000. Mrs S says she
explained to the bank that she wanted to consolidate three existing loans - two with a lender
Ill call E, one for £13,500 and one for £6,500 and one with a lender Ill call T for £46,000 -
and borrow around £20,000 extra to allow her to develop her business.
It took Barclays an extended period of time to process the consolidation loan. Mrs S chased
Barclays for the loan as she needed the funds urgently.
In May 2020, and with the consolidation loan application still in progress, Barclays told Mrs S
about the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme and suggested she apply for a BBL as she was
likely to get some money quickly. So Mrs S applied for an £8,000 BBL and her application
was accepted and drawn down shortly after.
After the BBL had been drawn down, Barclays contacted Mrs S and explained it needed to
reassess her application for the consolidation loan. The bank said that it didnt think the loan
would be affordable for Mrs S given the additional commitments she now had under the BBL
agreement. So it said that to proceed with the loan, Mrs S would need to repay the BBL as
part of the loan agreement. Mrs S did so, and the consolidation loan proceeded.
A loan of £88,500 was drawn down in June 2020  with £1,485 for fees to the bank, £8,000
to repay the BBL, £48,600 to repay the loan with T, £13,500 to repay one loan with E,
£3,500 for solicitors fees and the balance of around £13,500 paid to Mrs S from which her
overdraft with the bank would also be deducted.
Mrs S subsequently identified that one of her loans hadnt been repaid and shed received 
less money than expected to finance her business. Around the same time, Mrs S also 
applied for another BBL with Barclays, but the application was declined. Frustrated with the 
banks response and with an urgent need for money for the business, Mrs S contacted her 
local MP who made a complaint to the bank on Mrs Ss behalf.
The MP said Mrs S had asked for the loan to consolidate all her borrowing but one of her
loans hadnt been repaid and that she hadnt been told when talking out the BBL that she
would need to repay it as a condition of obtaining the consolidation loan. All this had left
Mrs S in a worse financial position and impacted her health. So the MP asked that Barclays
review the loan and BBL applications.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said Mrs S had asked it for a consolidation
loan in early 2020 and whilst she was waiting for this loan to be approved, Mrs S had taken
out a BBL. The bank said it had discussed and agreed its requirement for the BBL to be 
repaid before going ahead with the loan application. The bank also said the rules of the BBL 
scheme didnt allow borrowers to take out another loan if theyd already had one. So 
Barclays said it was unable to give Mrs S a new BBL, and it had been in contact with Mrs S 
to explain this.
Mrs S didnt accept Barclays response and asked this service to look into her complaint. 
She says that she took out the BBL on the assurance from the bank that it wouldnt affect 
her consolidation loan application and that the bank didnt tell her she could only obtain one
BBL. She then had no choice but to repay it in order to obtain the consolidation loan, but this
had ultimately left her without access to the BBL Scheme and delays on the banks part had
contributed to these problems.
Mrs S also says that the banks failure to pay off her third loan has left her in financial
difficulty as she couldnt afford the repayments on this loan in addition to the consolidation
loan. This had all left her at risk of losing her home and business. Mrs S says shes had to
borrow money from family using their credit cards to cover the shortfall between the amount 
she was expecting to receive from the consolidation loan to cover her repayments - and this 
had impacted both her own and her familys health.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it was
reasonable for Barclays to ask Mrs S to repay the BBL as part of the loan application, and
although the bank didnt explain to Mrs S that she could only have one BBL, it was likely that
Mrs S would have always taken out the BBL at that time because she needed the money
urgently.
The investigator was also satisfied that the loan agreement for £88,500 was correct as Mrs S
had signed it. She said that if the amount of money Mrs S was expecting to receive after the
consolidation was wrong - or that all the existing loans hadnt been repaid as expected - that
Mrs S should have raised this at the time. However, whilst she recognised there had been
some reasonable delays by Barclays in processing Mrs Ss loan, she didnt think nearly eight
months was fair and this had caused Mrs S distress. So she recommended the bank pay
Mrs S £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclays agreed with the investigators opinion, but Mrs S didnt so the complaint was
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 June 2022. I said the following:
BBL application
Mrs S says Barclays didnt make her aware shed have to repay the BBL as part of 
her consolidation loan application. Im not persuaded thats the case because Ive 
seen copies of the loan agreement that Mrs S signed, and it says the purpose of the 
application is to consolidate Mrs Ss external finance with lenders E and T, and also 
to repay two Barclays accounts. It then lists Mrs Ss BBL account number and current 
account number for the repayment of the overdraft. So even if Mrs S hadnt been 
made aware prior to receiving the loan agreement, I think she ought reasonably to be 
aware when she received and signed the agreement that the BBL repayment was 
part of the consolidation loan terms.
Mrs S also says that she wasnt aware that she could only apply for one BBL and that 
shed have to repay as part of the consolidation loan. She says Barclays didnt give 
her the necessary information before she made her application - but Im not 
persuaded thats the case. I say that because the Scheme rules said that borrowers 
could only have one BBL per business. Ive also seen that the declaration on online 
application form said I/We confirm that this is my/our only application for a Bounce 
Back Loan for this business and banks website section for BBLs contained a link to the British Business Bank website which confirmed the terms of the Scheme  
including, that borrowers could only receive one BBL. So I think Mrs S ought to have 
been aware of this before she applied. And therefore that once this BBL was repaid 
she couldnt then have a subsequent one.
However, based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs S would still have gone ahead with the 
BBL application even if shed been aware that she needed to repay it to receive the 
consolidation loan and if she could only apply once. I say this because Mrs S told us 
she needed money urgently, so I think when Barclays suggested the BBL to Mrs S 
and she realised her business met the eligibility criteria, it offered Mrs S a quick 
solution that she could use in the short term - as at the time Mrs S didnt know when 
she would receive the consolidation loan. I think the BBL quickly gave Mrs S the 
money she needed to alleviate the financial pressure she was under at that time, 
which was her priority.
Delays in the consolidation loan application
Mrs S initially applied for the consolidation loan in November 2019. Barclays has 
explained that this was initially delayed because Mrs S had changed her name and 
Barclays needed to put the application through in the correct name. I think this was 
reasonable. Mrs S says she made them aware she was getting married so it 
shouldnt have delayed the application. But I dont think this impacted Mrs S as the 
alternative was that she would have needed to delay submitting her application until 
her documents came through in her new name.
Barclays has also said that the application was delayed by the impact of Covid-19 
and that it was dealing with a high volume of applications and operating with reduced 
staffing. Whilst I recognise that the bank was facing operating challenges, I think it 
could have done more here to progress Mrs Ss application. Mrs S has said that it 
wasnt until January that the bank completed its valuation, and she was having to 
chase for updates as there didnt seem to be any progress. The bank has said that 
the application was re-keyed multiple times and Im not persuaded that all of these 
were reasonable. Even if there were changes that needed to be made, the valuation 
had been received in February and apart from Mrs Ss name, I havent seen anything 
else on the application that was different at that time.
Barclays still didnt process Mrs Ss application or provide her with an expected 
timescale for when shed receive the loan  despite Mrs S making the bank aware 
that she desperately needed the money, and the delay was causing her financial 
difficulty. Instead the bank suggested Mrs S apply for a BBL as a short-term fix.
Mrs S says that she shouldnt have had to apply for a BBL before receiving the 
consolidation loan, and I dont disagree that that banks actions caused her to 
reassess her plans. I also acknowledge Mrs S said she could have got assistance 
from her family - rather than take out the BBL if shed known she would have to repay 
it as part of the loan agreement. But shes also told this service she received 
assistance and was concerned about this impact this had on her family. In addition to 
this, Mrs S knew that if she was eligible for the loan, she should receive the funds 
quickly as the BBL wasnt subject to any affordability or credit checks - and
Ive seen the bank was able to provide this within 24 hours of the application.
Whilst I understand why Mrs Ss feels she received £8,000 less than she was 
expecting to when she applied for the loan in November 2019  and that shed lost 
the opportunity to apply for a BBL after receiving the consolidation loan - Mrs S 
chose to take out the BBL at that time. And I think its likely she would always have taken this option, because Mrs S didnt know how quickly the bank would provide the 
funds from the original loan application, and she needed the money urgently to pay 
her bills. Therefore I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for the decision 
Mrs S made on which was the best way to pay her bills at the time.
Incorrect loan amount and repayment of outstanding finance
Firstly Ill address the overall loan amount which Mrs S has told us was incorrect. 
Mrs S says she received £2,500 less to spend on her business than she expected, 
after receiving the balance of the consolidation loan. But Ive seen that this was 
based on Mrs Ss calculations using a loan of £85,994 plus expenses which is what 
she requested in November 2019  prior to the banks amended terms which said the 
BBL, and overdraft needed to be repaid for her to receive the consolidation loan.
The loan agreement signed by Mrs S clearly says that the loan amount was £88,500. 
Ive also seen that Barclays explained to Mrs S the reason it was only able to lend 
her this amount, which she accepted. And I think it then provided her with the 
remainder of this amount after settling the two loans with E and T, paying the banks 
fees, and repaying the BBL and her overdraft.
However, Im not satisfied that Barclays used the consolidation loan correctly. Mrs S 
has told us from the outset that she had three loans that should have been cleared 
by the consolidation loan to reduce her outgoings  and this was part of the 
discussion with Barclays in November 2019. The larger two loans with T and E were 
repaid, but the smaller loan for £6,500 with E wasnt. The bank doesnt agree and 
has said that the smaller loan was never due to be repaid as part of the loan  but I 
think it was.
I dont think it was likely that that when Barclays reassessed Mrs Ss application and 
raised concerns about her affordability, that it would have required her to repay the 
BBL but not the £6,500 loan  given that the BBL was on preferential terms, which 
included a much lower interest rate. I think its more likely that the bank expected all 
of Mrs Ss borrowing to be repaid with the consolidation loan and for her to have one 
single repayment as seems to have been the original purpose (and indeed is the 
nature of a consolidation loan).
It would seem illogical to have required Mrs S to repay the BBL on which Mrs S didnt 
need to make repayments for twelve months, had a six-year term which could be 
extended to ten years and was on an interest rate of 2.5%  rather than the £6,500 
which was on a rate of 6.2%, over a five year term and had a higher monthly 
repayment than the BBL  that Mrs S had wanted to clear initially. I think this would 
have been a difficult decision to justify when the bank completed its risk review at the 
time  based on what Mrs S had been looking to achieve from her consolidation  
and its justification about the loan affordability for Mrs S.
Barclays has also provided evidence from Mrs Ss relationship manager who noted 
that The clients bigger picture requirements at the time was to get the Ag mortgage 
drawn that was providing her with sufficient additional funds after repayment of her 
3rd party debts. So I think it was reasonable to believe that Mrs S believed all of her 
debts would be repaid from the consolidation loan, and that the only thing which had 
changed between her application in November 2019 and the new one in June 2020 
was that her new BBL and overdraft also needed to be repaid by the consolidation 
loan.When Mrs S applied for the consolidation loan, she signed two payment authority 
forms  one for E and one for T  and I believe this is where the error took place. 
Barclays was responsible for repaying Mrs Ss outstanding finance to these lenders  
but because there was only one payment authority completed for E, the second loan 
with the lender wasnt repaid by the bank. Mrs S has told us she didnt get a 
redemption statement from either E or T, so she wasnt aware it hadnt been repaid 
until several months later. She then contacted Barclays to ask why the smaller loan 
hadnt been repaid - and explain she was unable to meet the repayments of both 
loans.
Mrs S has told us that due to her health issues and the concerns for her husbands 
heath, she doesnt remember a lot from this time. I acknowledge the banks 
comments that Mrs S could have repaid the £6,500 loan with E when she received 
the balance of the consolidation loan. However, based on the correspondence 
between both parties and what Mrs S has told us, I dont think she recalculated how 
much she would be left with after the consolidation of all her debts and therefore 
didnt realise shed been given £6,500 too much.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs S approached Barclays at a very difficult time 
for her both with health and financial concerns and expected it to provide a level of 
service that she didnt receive. Over the time since Mrs S initially applied to the bank, 
her finances and health deteriorated to a point she was unable to cope. I can see that 
she made Barclays aware of what was happening, but I dont think it made any 
allowances.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs S to rely on the information and forms she was given 
by the bank to proceed with the consolidation loan  as it was aware of the wider 
circumstances she was experiencing and need for the finance. So based on what Ive 
seen I dont think Barclays treated Mrs S fairly as it was aware, she may need 
additional support which Im not persuaded it provided. I also dont think it processed 
her loan agreement correctly and I think this left Mrs S in a financially difficult 
position.
Mrs S has explained that because she didnt realise she had an extra £6,500 - as the
residual funds were less than expected - shed already spent this when she realised 
the £6,500 loan with E hadnt been repaid. She has also explained that as she 
couldnt meet the repayments, the loan has been passed to a recovery agent.
Barclays told us the maximum loan it could offer Mrs S was £88,500 due to the loan
affordability. However, under the circumstances, I think it should add the £6,500 loan 
 plus any additional interest and charges that have accrued - to the current 
consolidation loan balance. As Mrs S wouldnt still have this outstanding loan if the 
bank hadnt made an error when repaying the third-party debts.
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs S has told us shes been caused distress and inconvenience by Barclays actions 
 including the impact on her credit file. Shes also given detailed information about 
the impact on both her own and her husbands health - Im sorry to hear about the 
health issues Mr S has experienced. However Im unable to consider the impact on 
Mr S as he isnt party to the complaint.
I acknowledge this has been a difficult time for Mrs S, and Ive seen that Barclays 
was aware of the distress its actions were causing. I think the banks delays and 
subsequent actions had a significant impact on the options Mrs S had available to her. Mrs S has told us this negatively impacted her business as she didnt have the 
money she needed for animal feed and housing, and the cost of building materials 
increased dramatically during the time she was waiting for the loan, and this meant 
she wasnt able to meet the standards required for her industry and was unable to 
sell her products meaning she had minimum income.
Mrs S also explained that she had to borrow money from family as she couldnt afford 
her bills - which has now impacted them financially  and she has become 
increasingly distressed throughout the process and her health has deteriorated. Ive 
also seen that Mrs S didnt feel that she was getting a reasonable response from the 
bank, so she felt she had to involve her local MP to progress her complaint on her 
behalf. So based on all the evidence Ive seen, I think Barclays should pay Mrs S 
£750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S has also told us that shes been caused financial difficulty by the banks 
actions and that shes been trying to work with the bank to resolve this. Although any 
discussions about repayments would need to be agreed with the bank directly, we 
would expect Barclays to treat Mrs S positively and sympathetically as shes made it 
aware of her financial difficulties.
I invited Mrs S and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mrs S didnt agree. In summary she said:
The debt with Barclays would increase and not help with the mess the bank had 
caused  and it still wouldnt give her any additional support to overcome this.
Some of the effects on the business due to the banks lack of care and negligence 
hadnt been considered including building work being impeded and having to stop 
trading once the BBL was withdrawn. 
She had been expecting around £30,000 in excess funds from the consolidation loan 
as initially agreed with her bank relationship manager and that shed received 
different loan agreements which had been confusing. She also said that being 
without these excess funds had caused her business cashflow problems, which in 
turn had affected its ability to trade, damaged its reputation and prevented it repaying 
the debt held on her credit card.   
She had been given no option but to accept the banks terms and was told by the 
bank that applying for the BBL would have no impact on her original loan application. 
Sha also said she wasnt made aware that she then couldnt apply for a BBL top-up 
after it was repaid from the consolidation loan. She wouldnt have applied for a BBL if 
shed been given the right advice. 
Both her health and that of her husband had been severely affected by the banks 
actions and the compensation of £750 wasnt enough for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Barclays also didnt agree. It said in summary that:
Mrs S took out the BBL as a bridging loan before receiving the consolidation loan to 
carry out some building work. Evidence of the work having been completed could be 
seen from Mrs Ss bank statements, so it didnt agree she had been left in a worse 
position from repaying the BBL as part of the consolidation loan as shed told the 
bank this is what she needed the extra funds from the loan for.The bank had given Mrs S a loan of £85,994 plus expenses which is what had been 
agreed and was the maximum allowable as the property valuation had been less 
than expected.
It didnt agree it had made a mistake with the payment authority as both Mrs Ss 
secured loans had been repaid and it wasnt aware of the unsecured £6,500 loan. 
Mrs S didnt question why only two payment authorities had been signed, or why one 
of her direct debits to E didnt stop after April 2020. So, it doesnt believe there was 
an expectation that Barclays would repay the £6,500 on Mrs Ss behalf. And Mrs S 
couldve used the excess funds to repay the unsecured loan if that was her intention, 
and it wasnt up to the bank to check how she used that money. 
It would be irresponsible for the bank to increase Mrs Ss outstanding debt by adding 
on the £6,500 loan, as she was already unable to make her contractual repayments. 
It had already frozen the interest on the consolidation loan and agreed to accept 
much-reduced monthly repayments to support Mrs S and agreed similar terms for her 
overdraft for a period of a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs S says that adding the £6,500 loan to the consolidation loan wouldnt help her as it 
would only add to her debt. Barclays has said that it doesnt think its reasonable to add the 
loan to the outstanding balance either. The bank has said it doesnt think it was responsible 
for clearing the £6,500 loan when providing the consolidation loan because it was an 
unsecured loan - whereas the other two loans it repaid directly were secured and needed to 
be cleared for the bank to be able to provide the consolidation loan. Barclays also says that 
it wasnt aware of this loan when Mrs S applied for the consolidation loan. 
I understand Barclays explanation for why it didnt clear the unsecured loan and I think this 
was reasonable. But I dont agree that the bank wasnt aware of the loan or that its duty of 
care towards Mrs S ended once it had decided on the amount it was prepared to offer her for 
a consolidation loan. I say this because when Mrs S applied for the consolidation loan, she 
did so with the purpose of putting all her borrowing into one loan, with one monthly 
repayment. And when she did so, its likely that the bank would have credit scored Mrs S to 
assess her ability to repay the loan. So Barclays would have been aware of all the finance 
that she had outstanding - which included the £6,500 loan. 
Barclays says that Mrs S should have repaid the £6,500 loan from the excess funds and it 
doesnt agree it was unreasonable for it to request repayment of the BBL rather than the 
£6,500 loan. The bank also says it would be irresponsible for it to add the £6,500 loan to 
Mrs Ss consolidation loan as she is already in financial difficulty. However, whilst I agree it 
doesnt seem unreasonable for Barclays to request repayment of the BBL - and it is within its 
rights to do so as a condition of the lending - this still doesnt explain why the bank made the 
decision that it was more important for the BBL to be repaid rather than the £6,500 
unsecured loan. Especially considering the BBL was on preferential terms and that Mrs Ss 
goal was to consolidate her borrowing to a lower monthly repayment. If Barclays wanted to reduce Mrs Ss outgoings and consolidate her borrowing, I think it 
should either have required all her outstanding loan finance to be repaid or left the BBL in 
situ as it was on better terms and within its 12-month interest free period and requested 
repayment of the £6,500 instead. As it didnt do this, and either due to a miscommunication 
or misunderstanding, Mrs S is now in a worse position with her monthly outgoings than she 
was prior to applying for the consolidation loan, in that she has the higher repayment from 
this new loan in addition to the payments for the £6,500 loan. So I dont think it would be 
irresponsible to consolidate the lending into one repayment as this is what Mrs S should 
have had originally and means she would only have been making reduced repayments to 
one lender, rather than the two she has been left with currently. 
The bank has also said that any unsecured debt would be Mrs Ss responsibility to clear and 
why she didnt raise any concerns sooner about the £6,500 loan being cleared. Whilst I dont 
disagree that it was Mrs Ss responsibility to repay the unsecured debt, my thoughts remain 
unchanged that I think Barclays should have requested that all Mrs Ss debts were repaid as 
part of the consolidation loan as that was the reason it was required. And therefore the bank 
should have made it clear within this offer that they expected the other debts to be repaid  
in effect by Mrs S herself. In any event, I still think Mrs S was relying on support from the 
bank to help her, due to her health concerns and that there was confusion from Mrs S about 
the excess funds she was expecting to receive. 
From what Ive seen, I think that Mrs S spent the excess funds on the immediate payments 
that she needed to, such as payments to roofing companies and builders merchants. And 
Mrs S had already made it clear to the bank that its delays in providing the consolidation 
loan meant that her bills were increasing, and work needed to be done urgently to keep her 
business trading. So I think it was only after shed spent the excess funds that she realised 
the £6,500 loan hadnt been repaid. Had the bank done so, Mrs S would now only have the 
single monthly loan repayment and wouldnt have had the stress of having to fund a loan she 
wasnt prepared for and couldnt afford.
I acknowledge that Mrs S doesnt think that if Barclays added the £6,500 loan to the 
consolidation she would be in a better position. But Mrs S has told us that she is unable to 
make the repayments on the £6,500 as she expected this loan to be cleared. Although she 
isnt currently making repayments on the loan due to an agreement with the lender, shes 
told us this is only pending the decision of this service, and the missed repayments will 
ultimately have a negative effect on her credit file from the point she stopped making 
repayments, and the lender will still require the balance to be paid. By adding the £6,500 
loan to the consolidation loan, Mrs S will have one loan, with one lender and therefore one 
single monthly repayment  the position that I think she wouldve been in, had things gone 
as they should have. 
Mrs S has also made it clear that she thinks the bank should refund her the BBL as she says 
she was given no option but to accept the banks terms to repay the BBL as part of the 
consolidation loan. She says that she wouldnt have taken the BBL out at that time if shed 
been given the correct information. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
think Mrs S would have taken out the BBL, regardless of being aware that shed have to 
repay it as part of the consolidation loan. And I still think this is the case because Mrs S 
didnt know when the consolidation loan would be finalised, and she needed funds quickly to 
build housing for her livestock due to an inspector visit. The BBL provided this quick fix  
without it, her business would have been severely impacted. 
Mrs S told us that she was expecting around £30,000 excess after the consolidation loan 
was drawn down which she didnt get, and that this, combined with the withdrawal of the 
BBL, left her with a cashflow shortfall. But I dont agree that Mrs S could have expected this 
amount of excess funds. I dont dispute that Mrs S had discussions with her relationship manager or that she provided an email breakdown of what shed asked for initially. However, 
as I explained in my provisional decision, based on the property valuation and assessment, 
Barclays was only able to provide Mrs S with a loan of £88,500. This was the amount shown 
on the agreement that Mrs S signed, and Im satisfied that Mrs S knew the total loan amount 
she was receiving, which wouldnt have given her this level of excess funds.
Mrs S also says that Barclays prevented her undertaking the building work her business 
needed by delaying her consolidation loan and making her repay the BBL as part of the 
consolidation. Barclays says it doesnt feel that Mrs S was disadvantaged by these actions 
as she was able to use the BBL to pay for the buildings she needed. Ive seen copies of 
Mrs Ss bank statements which show that there were transactions for building work, but this 
was still significantly later than Mrs Ss original loan application, so I think Barclays did cause 
her inconvenience. 
However, the point remains that Barclays wasnt able to lend Mrs S the original amount that 
she requested due to the valuation of her property and loan affordability. Therefore it offered 
Mrs S the maximum it thought was correct for her circumstances, it has explained its 
reasons for doing so and was ultimately a commercial decision it was entitled to make. The 
terms on which the bank was willing to lend to Mrs S also included the repayment of the 
BBL. I acknowledge Mrs S says she felt the bank gave her no option but to accept these 
terms. However, Mrs S could have decided not to accept the conditions or look elsewhere 
for a lender which would allow her to retain the BBL, but she chose to accept these terms to 
receive the consolidation loan. 
Mrs S has told us that her health and that of her husband has been severely impacted by 
Barclays actions. I dont dispute that this has been a distressing time for Mrs S, but I cant 
fairly hold the bank responsible for all of the issues that she has experienced. I acknowledge 
Mrs S wanted help from the bank and that it didnt do this as quickly as it should. However, I 
cant hold the bank solely responsible for the problems Mrs S experienced during what was 
a very difficult and stressful time in general due to the pandemic - and the effect it had on 
both individuals and businesses during this time. I have also seen that Barclays has put 
measures in place to assist Mrs S as she is has told them she is experiencing financial 
difficulty at this time. So I cant reasonably say that the bank hasnt supported Mrs S.
Putting things right
I think its clear that Barclays handling of Mrs Ss consolidation loan application and its 
subsequent actions caused her distress. To put things right I think Barclays should do the 
following:
Provide Mrs S with a new loan offer letter for the consolidation loan to include the 
outstanding balance from the £6,500 loan plus any outstanding interest and charges 
that have accrued.
Obtain the required authority from Mrs S so that it can settle this debt directly with the 
other lender so that both parties are satisfied that the balance has been cleared so 
Mrs S only has one monthly repayment. 
Give Mrs S an appropriate and reasonable timescale which it would normally afford 
vulnerable customers to consider this new offer as she may wish to seek legal and/or 
financial advice before signing the new consolidation loan offer letter. 
Pay Mrs S £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this decision in part and instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
settle the complaint in the manner I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman