DRN-2602023
The complaint
Mr T complains that a finance agreement was misrepresented to him by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr T has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease, and because Mr T is 
named on the finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr T. If it was, and if I was persuaded he would not have proceeded with 
the deal had it not been for that misrepresentation, I would suggest some action needs to be 
taken to rectify the situation.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that if theres been a misrepresentation 
by the dealer regarding the agreement the creditor (VWFS here) can be liable for any losses 
the debtor experiences.
I think there has been a misrepresentation here because Im persuaded it is likely there was 
a car part exchanged that hasnt been accounted for. I also think the amount of credit has 
been miscalculated and is £499 higher than it should have been. 
the part exchange
Mr T says he part exchanged his old car to reduce the amount of credit, but that part 
exchange does not feature on the agreement. Im persuaded that, on balance, there was a 
part exchange because:
Mr T has provided photographs of his car on dealerships forecourt. He says they 
were taken after he signed his new finance agreement. Although these arent dated I 
think they provide some support of his claim the car was part exchanged;
Mr Ts old car was MOTd six months early and a new owner was confirmed not long 
after Mr T entered into his finance arrangement for his new car. I think that supports 
his assertion that the old car had been part exchanged.
On the basis of that information and no opposing, persuasive, information from the 
dealership, I think its likely a part exchange was agreed and that the part exchange value 
was £1,000. I say that because thats a figure that seems reasonable given the car, the 
make and the age of the car that was part exchanged and also because Ive found Mr Ts 
evidence to be consistent. Im persuaded by Mr Ts consistent evidence that this money has 
not been accounted for in the finance agreement as I think its likely it would have been used 
to reduce the credit being advanced rather than being paid directly to the dealership.
the discrepancy in the amount of credit supplied
Mr T has provided evidence to show he paid the dealership at total of £4,995 in September 
2015. The vehicle order form shows a deposit of £1,000 and a balance of £3,496. Theres a 
discrepancy of £499 and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary from the dealership, I 
think its likely that is money Mr T paid but that hasnt been accounted for in the finance 
agreement.
the future guaranteed value
When these types of finance agreement are formed the final payment, which is often 
referred to as the balloon payment, is a calculation made by the dealer, at the time of 
application, which estimates the future value of the car. But the figure cant be accurate. 
Fluctuations will occur in the market value of the vehicle so it cant be guaranteed. 
What can be guaranteed is that the consumer will be allowed to buy the vehicle from the 
finance provider for the final payment. No more and no less. 
The difference between the amount of credit and the final payment is, in effect, the sum that 
is being financed and that instalments are paid against. And for that reason, the business is 
able to guarantee the consumer can buy the vehicle at the end of the agreement for the final 
payment agreed at the onset. Thats because it knows the amount being financed has been 
repaid and any profit theyd anticipated receiving through the deal has been realised. 
It is, of course, hoped that the final payment is a close reflection of the amount the car would 
realise in any sale. But this isnt guaranteed and there are no promises to that effect in the 
terms and conditions of the finance agreement Mr T signed. So, I dont think there is 
evidence to support Mr Ts assertion he was told what the car would be worth at the end of 
the agreement.
Putting things rightVWFS should pay Mr T the difference between what he paid to the dealership and what is 
shown on his receipts. They should also pay him the £1,000 he part exchanged his car for. 
Theyll need to add interest to those payments as Mr T has been deprived of the money.
Its clear that Mr T has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to escalate his 
complaint to this service and there have been delays in getting it resolved whilst weve been 
waiting for VWFSs evidence. In those circumstances I think VWFS should provide £150 in 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
pay him £1,499 in respect of the discrepancy in amounts paid by Mr T when setting 
up his finance agreement and the part exchange value. They should add 8% simple 
interest to this figure from the date the agreement started to the date of settlement;
pay Mr T £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman