DRN-2519941
The complaint
  Miss C complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
 Miss C tells us that in June 2019 she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as BC. 
She states that in the following months the vehicle experienced numerous faults. This 
included issues with the tracking; battery; brakes; windscreen wipers and petrol gauge. She 
says that some repairs were carried out but that in November 2019 the vehicle experienced 
more issues which proved to be a power steering fault. She wants to reject the vehicle. 
MotoNovo told us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently examined by a 
company Ill refer to as A. And that A had concluded that the faults would not have been 
present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 December 2020. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint as I didnt think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Since my provisional decision Miss C has replied and indicated acceptance of my provisional 
view. I thank her for her response. MotoNovo didnt reply by the scheduled date of 14 
January 2021. And although a reminder has been issued and Ive delayed issuing my final 
decision to allow it extra time to reply theres been no further response.
As no new information has been supplied, I see no reason to change my provisional view. 
This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Miss Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I understand that Miss C would be disappointed that the vehicle has encountered several 
problems in the months since she acquired it. As a used vehicle  it was about six years old 
with 73,173 miles on the odometer at the time of supply  it wouldnt be expected that it 
would meet the standards of a new vehicle. Nonetheless at a cash price of around £7,700 it 
cant reasonably be considered a cheap purchase.
Miss Cs complaint is that since supply the vehicle has developed numerous faults. And that 
repairs havent been successful. She doesnt feel she should be expected to meet the cost 
of the latest fault with the power steering. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract, goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would likely include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
After the vehicle was supplied to Miss C it required various work to be carried out. I can see 
that a battery was replaced in July 2019; in August 2019 a vehicle health check was 
undertaken and various faults with the brakes were identified. The relevant invoice records 
details of the handbrake linings being detached and levers corroded. And rear brakes were 
leaking. Some repairs were carried out with rear brake hoses being replaced along with rear 
handbrake shoes and lever mechanisms; and in early September 2019 Ive seen an invoice 
which shows that the tracking was reset and steering mounts tightened.
The vehicles MOT history shows that on 23 February 2019 the vehicle passed the MOT with 
numerous advisories about worn brakes. It also referred to handbrake travel. Advisories 
are issues which  whilst not resulting in a failed MOT  require monitoring and are likely to 
require attention. The odometer reading was recorded as 69,661 miles.
A carried out its inspection on 10 December 2019. At this time the odometer reading is 
recorded as 77,668. This inspection was within six months of the date of supply of the 
vehicle to Miss C.
As initial report identified a number of faults with the vehicle. It stated that the keyless entry 
system didnt work. And it reported faults with the handbrake which didnt hold efficiently 
whilst the vehicle was in reverse. It also found the power steering was sporadic.
It stated:
We would conclude the vehicle is suffering from a power assisted steering fault and braking 
issues which require immediate attention to make the vehicle roadworthy.
This on the balance of probability would not have been developing or present at the point of 
finance inception.
As conclusion that the faults probably wouldnt have been present at the point of supply was 
seemingly based on the time and mileage that had elapsed. But I cant see any explanation 
as to why the handbrake fault it identified should be so similar to that recorded in the 
advisories. Nor why, given it had been advised of the earlier handbrake repairs in August, it didnt conclude these had failed.
When clarification was sought as to if the steering issues were the result of earlier repairs 
which had failed, A replied and stated:
I have looked at the attached job card, we would suggest the vehicle is referred back to a 
dealer and confirming what the issue is with the steering, as this could be unrelated to the 
steering mounts. At this stage we cannot conclusively say that this would be a failed repair.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
It also states that where the short term right to reject (usually within 30 days of supply) isnt 
exercised, the supplier / dealer has one opportunity to repair the goods so that they conform 
to contract.
Its not in dispute that the inspection by A was carried out within six months of the date of 
supply. The finding that the vehicle required immediate attention to make it roadworthy 
clearly shows it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of As inspection. Other than the 
power steering, the report highlighted the inefficiency of the handbrake. This suggests that 
the advisory noted on the MOT had not been properly addressed at the time the vehicle was 
supplied to Miss C. And that the August repairs relating to the handbrake had also failed.
Ive already detailed several examples of when the vehicle required attention after supply. 
And Miss C has also provided a health check which was carried out at or around the time of 
supply. This contains a column which relates to clutch, transmission, steering and brakes. 
And suggests faults were identified and repaired. It seems improbable that the further 
instances of faults with some similar components was coincidental. Taken together, the 
information indicates that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
The right to repair contained within the CRA is not a right to repair each individual fault that 
may arise from time to time and cause goods not to conform to contract within the first six 
months. It is one opportunity to repair the vehicle  as a whole  so that it is of satisfactory 
quality.
Here there have been various opportunities since supply to ensure that it was repaired so 
that it did conform to contract. And the report by A which shows that the vehicle was not 
roadworthy at the time of its inspection, means that the repairs which were undertaken failed 
to restore the vehicle to that standard. 
Accordingly, I think Miss C should be able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Miss C supplied a visual image that showed the vehicle had an odometer reading of 77,806 
miles in May 2020. She confirms it hasnt been used since then. That appears to indicate 
that since A inspected in December 2019 the vehicle hasnt been used to any meaningful 
extent.
Since acquiring the vehicle Miss C has only covered around 4,500 miles in 18 months. So 
whilst its fair and reasonable she should pay for the use that she has had, its equally fair she 
shouldnt have to pay for those periods when the vehicle wasnt able to be used.
Putting things right
 MotoNovo Finance Limited should now take the following action:1. End the agreement with nothing for Miss C to pay from 10 December 2019; 
Payments due up to this date can be retained for fair use;
2. Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Miss C;
3. Refund payments made for any period after 10 December 2019, pro rata where 
appropriate; Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to this sum 
from date of payment to date of settlement;
4. Pay £200 to Miss C for distress and inconvenience;
5. Arrange for the removal of any adverse entries relating to the agreement from Miss 
Cs credit file and record the agreement as settled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  
I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman