DRN-3231493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Aviva Insurance UK Limiteds handling and proposed 
settlement of their Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to Aviva also include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As the damaged tiles outdoors were unable to be sufficiently repaired, Aviva have 
offered to replace the whole of the outdoor tiled area.
However, Aviva declined to cover internal tiles as it said there was a clear separation 
between the areas, and it wouldnt be considered under matching sets cover.
I can see Mr and Mrs A have the same tiling both inside and outside the home. I note 
they dont feel there is a divide between these areas, and the tiles should all be 
considered as part of a matching set in the settlement.
When considering cover for Matching Sets, its unusual for cover to extend to 
different rooms when there is a clear division in place
From looking at all available information, I can see a doorway and guttering in 
between these areas. So while the inside and outside tiling is the same, and these 
divides may have been designed with the intention to be minimal, I still think this is a 
clear division.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs As comments and their concerns about the aesthetic of 
their home, but I think in these circumstances Aviva acted fairly in offering to cover 
the cost of the outside tiling.
Its not in dispute there have been avoidable delays in Avivas handling of the claim, 
or that there were times when Aviva could have handled things better.
Aviva offered Mr and Mrs A £700 compensation in acknowledgment of this, but I 
dont think this goes far enough to address the distress and inconvenience they have 
been caused.
Mr and Mrs A had made Aviva aware of issues with repairs failing in March 2020, but 
further action wasnt taken until October 2020.
I can also see work to damaged doors, following the break in at the property, wasnt 
completed until February 2021. As this is more than a year after the incident, I can 
fully understand Mr and Mrs As frustration and their comments regarding the 
ongoing distress this caused them  particularly living with this through winter 
months.
With this in mind, I agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs A 
further compensation of £300, bringing the total to £1,000. I think this is within a 
reasonable range to recognise the distress and inconvenience they have been 
caused.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs A further compensation of £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance UK Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman