DRN-2810357
The complaint
Miss M believes that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (trading as M&S Bank) have 
wrongly classified her credit card account as being in persistent debt. She says that theyre 
unfairly coercing her into either setting up a repayment plan or applying for a personal loan.
What happened
Miss M is assisted in bringing her complaint by a third party. However, for simplicity, I shall 
refer to all comments as being made by Miss M.
Miss M holds a credit card account with M&S. She was making minimum monthly 
repayments and some additional repayments from time to time.
M&S wrote to Miss M in September 2018. They said that theyd reviewed her account over 
the previous 18 months. This showed that shed paid more in interest and charges than 
shed repaid from the capital amount she owed. They explained that this can be described 
as persistent debt, following a study by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
M&S suggested options to help Miss M repay her debt over a reasonable period. They said 
they would continue to monitor her account and if there were no changes over the following 
18 months, they may need to take further steps. This included cancelling or restricting the 
use of her account. M&S also provided details of where Miss M might be able to seek help, if 
she felt that she couldnt afford the repayments.
M&S wrote to Miss M again in April 2019. They said that shed continued to pay more in 
interest and charges than shed repaid off the capital amount owed. They provided options to 
help with reducing her debt with them. M&S said they would continue to monitor Miss Ms 
account. They said that if she was still in persistent debt in nine months time, they would 
provide further options. They also said that if Miss M didnt choose one of these options, they 
would generally have to suspend her card.
M&S sent a further letter to Miss M in January 2020. They confirmed that over the previous 
18 months, Miss M had continued to pay more in interest and charges than shed repaid off 
the capital amount owed. M&S explained they were required by the FCA to provide options 
for repayment of the debt within 3-4 years. The letter included repayment options and asked 
Miss M to contact them within 21 days to discuss these.
M&S wrote again to Miss M in October 2020. They said that they hadnt heard from Miss M, 
despite their previous letters. They said they would suspend use of her card if they didnt 
hear from her within five weeks.  The letter also explained the options for repayment that 
were available to Miss M.
On 14 October 2020, Miss M contacted M&S by telephone. She said that shed been paying 
additional payments off the balance she owed. She didnt agree that she was in persistent 
debt. M&S said that theyd have to suspend her card. Miss M wasnt happy with this. She 
wanted M&S to leave things as they were and assured them, she would make additional 
payments each month. She believes that M&S were coercing her into taking a personal loan.
Miss M wrote to M&S on 26 October 2020 to complain. She said that in the 18 months from 
March 2019 to September 2020, shed paid more off the capital owed than shed repaid in 
interest and charges. She didnt agree that she was in persistent debt. She also said that 
shed taken no notice of their letters as she believed persistent debt didnt apply to her. Miss 
M felt that M&Ss agent on the call of 14 October refused to deviate from her script and her 
goal appeared to be signing me up for an M&S personal loan or agreeing to her payment 
plan under threat of having my account suspended.
M&S replied to Miss M on 6 November 2020. They didnt agree that theyd done anything 
wrong here. They confirmed that Miss Ms card would be suspended. To avoid this, they said 
that her account balance had to go to zero for one calendar day within the next six months. 
They also said that if this wasnt achieved, the account would be automatically closed once 
the balance was cleared. M&S said that Miss M could reapply 12 months after that.
Miss M wasnt happy with M&Ss response. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint. He didnt think that M&S had acted 
unfairly. So, Miss M asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules relating to persistent debt on credit cards were brought about following the FCAs 
Credit Card Market Study (CCMS) published in July 2016. The outcome of the study brought 
about changes in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), part of the FCAs handbook. 
Under the new rules, businesses are required to take a series of escalating steps to help 
customers break the cycle of persistent debt and ensure customers who cant afford to repay 
more quickly are given help. Firms also need to take steps to help customers in danger of 
falling into debt.
M&S wrote to Miss M as part of their obligations under CONC 6.7.27  6.7.28. The 
requirements are that M&S must tell Miss M if shes paid more in interest, charges and fees 
in the preceding 18 months than shed paid off her borrowing. They should also explain that 
increasing payments will reduce Miss Ms borrowing costs and encourage her to contact 
them to discuss her financial circumstances. They should warn Miss M about the 
implications of reaching a position of 36 months in persistent debt. 
Having read M&Ss first letter from September 2018, I believe its contents met all of these 
requirements. The letter shows that of the total £1,674.40 paid by Miss M during the period, 
£979.45 covered Interest and charges. So, I agree it appears Miss Ms account did meet the 
FCAs criteria for persistent debt at that time. M&S also said that they would include a 
Voluntary Payment figure on each of Miss Ms statements. Paying this amount would help 
to ensure that the situation was reversed. I think that this was helpful and the right thing to 
do in the circumstances.
M&Ss letter from April 2019 confirms that theyd completed a further nine-month review of 
Miss Ms account. This ensured that they met their obligations under CONC 6.7.29. They 
said that the situation hadnt changed, and they further explained the options available to 
Miss M. M&S said theyd review Miss Ms account again in nine months. They made it clear 
that if Miss Ms account was still classified as being in persistent debt, theyd present her 
with options to repay her balance more quickly. They warned that if Miss M didnt choose 
one of these options, theyd generally have to suspend her card. So, I believe this letter 
ensured that M&S met all of their requirements under CONC 6.7.29.
M&S wrote to Miss M again in January 2020 in order to meet their obligations under CONC 
6.7.30  6.7.40. They said that Miss Ms account had now reached the end of the second 18-
month period and shed continued to pay more in interest and charges that towards the 
amount borrowed. This letter shows that of the total £1,384.26 paid by Miss M during the 
period, £811.12 covered Interest and charges. M&S explained that increasing repayments would reduce borrowing costs and provided 
contact details for free debt advice. They also set out options for increasing repayments. 
CONC suggests that options may include a repayment plan or transferring the balance owed 
to a fixed-sum unsecured personal loan. Thats what M&S suggested here. They also said 
that where Miss M can afford higher repayments but chooses not to take up one of the 
options offered, the firm must suspend the card. The same course of action also needs to be 
taken in the event that Miss M doesnt respond. Again, I believe that M&Ss letter meets all 
of the FCAs requirements here.
I have also considered M&Ss letter of 11 October 2020. They said that they hadnt heard 
from Miss M about any of their letters. So, they said that if they didnt hear from her within 
five weeks, they would suspend the use of her credit card account. They also repeated the 
options that were available to Miss M.
I can find no record of Miss M responding to any of M&Ss letters until a telephone 
conversation on 14 October 2020. Ive listened to a recording of that call. 
The M&S agent explained the level of repayments required to ensure that the debt was 
repaid over a reasonable period (3-4 years)  as required by CONC. She also tried to 
explain the option of restructuring the debt onto a personal loan. Miss M said that she neither 
wanted a repayment plan or a personal loan. She was not willing to listen fully to the options 
available to her. She insisted that shed already increased her monthly payments, sufficient 
to ensure that more capital was being repaid than interest or charges. 
Miss M said that M&Ss agent had no decision-making authority, would not or could not 
deviate from her script or put us through to someone with authority. But I think that M&S 
tried to cover all that was required of them here in order to comply with the rules laid down in 
CONC. 
Miss M then sent a letter to M&S dated 26 October 2020. She said that during the 18 months 
between Mar 2019 and September 2020, shed repaid £928.68 in capital owed and paid 
interest for the period of £763.93. She said that she should not have been classified as 
being in persistent debt. While this appears to be the case during this period, payments 
were not increased to enable this to be achieved until after the 36-month review period was 
complete. Miss Ms account had already been identified as being in persistent debt for the 36 
months up to January 2020. So, M&S were obliged to ensure that they complied with the 
rules as laid down in CONC 6.7.27  6.7.40.
In her letter to M&S, Miss M also states that she took no notice of previous references to 
persistent debt as they appeared to me to be form letters and not specifically directed at 
me because clearly, the concept of persistent debt did not apply to me. Unfortunately, I 
dont agree with Miss M here. The guidelines laid down by the FCA are clear on this point, 
as are M&Ss letters. Miss Ms account appears to have met the FCAs definition of 
persistent debt for two consecutive period of 18 months. So, I think that M&Ss letters were 
appropriate so that they met their regulatory obligations.
Miss M told this service that M&Ss response to her proper administration of her credit card 
account has been to label her, based upon a computer algorithm and historic data, as a 
persistent debtor, suspend the account, demand repayment in full within six months. But I 
believe M&S completed all of these assessments and acted so as to meet their regulatory 
obligations as defined by the FCA in CONC.
Miss M says that M&Ss proposals were limited to either taking out an M&S loan or adhering 
to the banks payment plan. She said that a plan was never actually proposed in their letters. 
But from what Ive read and heard, the options for repayment presented by M&S to Miss M 
met the requirements laid down in CONC 6.7.32. M&Ss letters continually asked Miss M to 
contact them so that these could be discussed. The only discussion took place by telephone 
on 14 October 2020  nine months after the 36-month period had ended. During that call, Miss M made it clear that she didnt want to discuss these options. So, while I understand 
that Miss M, will be disappointed, I cant see that M&S have done anything wrong here.
Miss M says that M&S didnt choose to suspend her account until October 2020, despite her 
increasing payments each month since March 2020 to the point where she was paying more 
capital off her debt. M&S have explained that they were due to suspend Miss Ms account in 
March 2020 but due to COVID-19 this was delayed until October 2020. The FCA issued 
guidance in March 2020 during the Coronavirus pandemic. They said that customers would 
have until 1 October 2020 to respond to their banks communications about their persistent 
credit card debt. As a result of this, firms were not obliged to suspend customers credit card 
accounts due to persistent debt until then, even if theyd already received communication 
from their bank about this. But Miss M hadnt replied to any of M&S letters before then.
While I accept that Miss M has now acted to increase her monthly repayments, 
unfortunately, this wasnt until after her account met the FCAs persistent debt definition. So, 
I believe that M&Ss decision to suspend her account was the right thing to do in order to 
comply with their obligations under CONC 6.7.31. This may have been avoided if Miss M 
had previously discussed the situation and reached an agreement with M&S before the end 
of the 36-month period.
I can fully appreciate Miss Ms frustrations here. Particularly now that she has acted to 
address the situation. But on balance, I cant agree that M&S have done anything wrong or 
treated Miss M unfairly in these circumstances. The FCAs rules under CONC are 
specifically designed here to require lenders to provide support and options to consumers to 
ensure they avoid potential debt problems in the future. I believe thats what M&S were 
trying to do here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman