DRN-2742011
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society declined to make monetary transfers he 
had requested and placed restrictions on his account.
What happened
Mr P attempted to make transfers of £3,000 and £2,000 to a friend from his Nationwide 
account. Shortly after attempting to make these transfers, Mr P was contacted by Nationwide 
who asked Mr P to get in touch with them to discuss the transfers that hed requested.
Mr P went into a Nationwide branch and was put on a phone call with a member of the 
relevant Nationwide team. Mr P says that during this call the team member asked a series of 
personal questions and that he was made to feel that he had done something wrong. 
Ultimately, the team member that Mr P spoke with refused to authorise the transfers that Mr 
P requested and placed restrictions on his account. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he 
made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they felt that had reasonable concerns about the 
requested transfers, including that Mr P might unwittingly be in the process of being 
scammed, and that Mr P hadnt provided answers to their questions such that these 
concerns were mitigated. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to have had concerns, and they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
acted unreasonably by taking the action that they had. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and, having completed my review, I 
can appreciate his concerns here. It must be frustrating to have requested to make these 
transfers only for them to first suspended, and then later declined, when Mr P decided not to 
answer what he felt were overly personal questions asked about those transfers by 
Nationwide staff.
However, the transfers that Mr P requested did represent unusual account activity for Mr P, 
and in such circumstances, Nationwide do have a responsibility to make reasonable 
enquiries to the account holder so that they can be satisfied that the account holder isnt, for 
instance, unknowingly in the process of being scammed.
This means that Nationwide suspending these transfers and asking Mr P to contact them to 
discuss them is what this service would have expected Nationwide to have done here, given 
the circumstances. 
And once contact is made, which in this instance was when Mr P was put in touch with the 
relevant department by telephone when he went into branch, it would also be expected that 
Nationwide would ask relevant questions to Mr P to enable them to be certain that the 
transfer requests werent problematic and, in all likelihood, wouldnt result in any form of loss 
for Mr P. 
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call between Mr P and the Nationwide team 
member, and while I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration, Im satisfied that Nationwide have 
acted reasonably here. Its evident from the call that the team member did explain clearly to 
Mr P why he was asking the questions that he was, and the team member made it clear as 
the call progressed that if Mr P wasnt willing to answer those questions to his satisfaction 
then the requested transfers would be declined.
Its also clear from the call that Mr P isnt personally comfortable being asked these 
questions, and ultimately Mr P does decline to answer these questions in any detail. I can 
understand Mr Ps position here, and its his right to not answer these questions if he so 
chooses. 
But Mr Ps choice to not provide detailed information to Nationwide doesnt supersede 
Nationwides obligations to monitor unusual account activity for all of its customers, or to 
take steps such as those that Nationwide took in this instance to verify unusual account 
activity before allowing it to proceed. 
Additionally, in circumstances such as this, where a customer doesnt want to provide further 
information and where Nationwide continue to have reasonable concerns, Im satisfied that it 
is appropriate for Nationwide to place restrictions on an account until such time as those 
concerns are alleviated.
All of which means that, while I certainly sympathise with Mr P here, its difficult for me to 
conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably in how they first suspended 
and then declined the transfers, and also regarding the restrictions that they then placed on 
Mr Ps account. Indeed, considering that Nationwide had, and continue to have, reasonable 
concerns, it may have been irresponsible for Nationwide to have done otherwise. 
Its my understanding that restrictions remain on Mr Ps account, and that Nationwide require 
Mr P to discuss the requested transfers with them before these restrictions can be lifted. 
Given that Im satisfied that Nationwide have acted reasonably in implementing these 
restrictions, I dont feel that it would be fair to ask them to remove these restrictions without 
Mr P providing the information to them that they require.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any 
further action here. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but I hope 
he can understand, considering everything I have explained above, why I have made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman