DRN-3399347
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Paragon Bank Plc directly settled with her landlord ground rent arrears 
and costs totalling £1,345.00 following the service of a Notice under a Section 146 of the 
Law of Property Act. This deprived her the opportunity to challenge the freeholders fees.
What happened
Ms F had a mortgage with Paragon Bank on a leasehold buy to let property. According to the 
lease a ground rent of £150 per year was payable but Ms F hadnt paid it for some years. On 
28 April 2021 the solicitors for the landlord of the buy to let property sent the lender a 
Section 146 Notice of Forfeiture which it said that it would enforce against the borrower in 21 
days. The covering letter said:
In the event that our client is forced to issue forfeiture proceedings, we anticipate that our 
additional legal costs to conclusion, in addition to the sum due, will be in the region of 
£3,000.00-£4,000.00.
The Notice required payment in full of £1,345.00 within 21 days. That sum was made up of 
£600 ground rent, £145 administration charges and £600, including Vat, legal costs. 
Paragon says that its a condition of the mortgage that any sums due under the lease are 
paid and if those payments arent made there is a potential for the lease to be forfeited. So, 
its procedure on receipt of such a notice of forfeiture is to settle the same plus any costs to 
protect the mortgage security. Paragon paid the amount due on the Notice and added that 
amount to the mortgage balance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as under the terms 
of the mortgage, the borrower is required to take such actions as the lender may require if 
the borrower receives any notice under Section 146 of the LPA as here and that Paragon 
was entitled to pay off the landlords claim to secure its interest. Ms F through her solicitor 
disagreed saying in summary that although Mrs F accepted that Paragon had the right to 
make payments of ground rent on her behalf. But Mrs F had not received the notice, as it 
was served at the property address, which was tenanted, Mrs F was not given the 
opportunity to contest the fees charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked for further information from both parties before coming to this decision and I thank 
them for their assistance. I received a copy of the lease which indicates that a yearly ground 
rent payment of £150 was due on the first of January of each year. The Section 146 Notice 
refers to ground rent arrears of £600 although Mrs F refers in her correspondence to £450. 
So according to the Notice, the account was four years in arrears and according to Mrs Fs 
correspondence three years in arrears. In any case the account was at least three years in 
arrears. 
I note Mrs F agrees that Paragon can make payment of the arrears on her behalf. The 
problem she raises is that Paragon should give her adequate notice of the Section 146 as 
she says it wasnt served on her but on the tenant and if she got such a notice she would in 
law have the right to contest the lawfulness of the fees charged which is the issue she has.
What Paragon did was in my experience not unusual for a lender faced with a section 146 
Notice. Mrs F agrees that Paragon can make the payment of the ground rent on her behalf 
but not the legal fees. But the Section 146 Notice refers to Paragraph 3 of the Fourth 
Schedule of the lease and that Mrs F was obliged to pay all expenses including solicitors 
costs incurred by the landlord incurred in or in contemplation of proceedings under Section 
146. It does seem that Mrs F by not paying the ground rent exposed herself to payment of 
the legal fees. It also seems to me that legal fees were indeed incurred in the preparation of 
the Section 146 Notice as there are references to relevant sections of the lease in the 
Notice.
So, faced with a Section 146 Notice which states that  the lessor will take steps to re-enter 
the Premises and forfeit the Lease without further notice to you, if the sum of £1,345.00 is 
not paid within 21 days of the date of this Notice , the lender in order to protect its security 
paid the sum due on the notice. In my view that wasnt unreasonable. The period of 21 days 
is a short period and Paragon acted expeditiously in that period to remove the potential 
threat to its security. I cant fairly criticise that. Mrs F hadnt paid the ground rent in several 
years and the landlord was claiming money that it says was due to it under the lease quoting 
the terms of the lease.
The situation could have been avoided had Mrs F paid the ground rent when it was due and 
failure to do so exposed her to a Section 146 Notice and, under the terms of the mortgage, 
to the lender paying it off together with costs and expenses and adding these to the 
mortgage. The only dispute appears to be about the amount of the legal costs. Although Mrs 
Fs representative indicates that too much was charged by the landlords representative, I 
dont see any indication as to what he believes those fees should be. It seems to me that 
costs would be due under the terms of the lease and to avoid forfeiture that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Paragon to pay those off too. I appreciate that leaves an issue that the 
landlords representative may (or may not) have charged too much in legal fees on the 
Section 146 Notice. But my role is to decide whether the bank did anything wrong and I cant 
fairly say that in paying off this money to avoid forfeiture of the lease that it did. So, I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman