DRN-4339114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not close their account down and 
they charged them further interest. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P paid off their overdrawn balance and requested their account to be closed 
down, but the account was not closed due to pending interest charges. The interest charge 
was debited from their account the following month which resulted in the account being 
overdrawn again. Mr and Mrs P made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and they arranged £50 compensation to be 
credited to their account and to remove the £4.05 interest charged to the account. They said 
that the account wasnt closed as the advisor had not recognised there was pending interest, 
meaning Mrs P had to call and chase this. They said feedback had been passed to the 
manager of the advisor involved, to address the error and prevent this happening to another 
customer. Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service as they did not feel the 
compensation paid was enough for the impact of what happened on them.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said Barclays not closing their 
account caused them stress and inconvenience, but she agreed with the compensation 
provided to them by Barclays. Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr and Mrs Ps complaint points. And Im not 
going to respond to every single point made by them. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our 
rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
Theres no doubt that the Barclays member of staff who originally spoke to Mrs P let her 
down by not correctly telling her that there was pending interest due to debit the account. 
She should have been told that the account couldnt be closed down until this debited the 
account and Mr and Mrs P paid this interest charge. The interest charge was from the period 
between 21 December 2022-19 January 2023, and it was debited from their account on 13 
February 2023. So Im satisfied that it was charged correctly as Mr and Mrs Ps account was 
overdrawn for some of this period.
But Mr and Mrs P would have been under the impression that the account had already been 
closed down, so when they found out it wasnt closed down after they had paid the previous 
interest charge, and more interest had been debited, then this would have caused them 
distress. Mrs P was inconvenienced by having to ring Barclays to get this resolved.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs P 
have said they dont feel the compensation is sufficient for the impact that the errors had on 
them, and Ive read everything theyve said about this. But the £50 that Barclays paid them 
for distress and inconvenience is in line with our awards for what happened here. Our 
awards are not designed to punish a business, and if Barclays hadnt of paid Mr and Mrs P 
this compensation, then I would have asked them to pay broadly the same as this. Barclays 
also refunded the last interest charged, even though they charged this in line with the terms 
of the account. So it follows I dont require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman