DRN-4313162
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt honour a cashback offer as he feels they should.
What happened
Mr C came across an offer on a third-party cashback website (the website) whereby £132 
would be credited to people who opened a new bank account with TSB through the website. 
Mr C opened a new bank account with TSB through the website, but TSB didnt pay the 
£132 to him. And when Mr C asked TSB about this, he was told it was because he hadnt 
met the criteria necessary to qualify for the cashback offer. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Mr C and reiterated that the hadnt fulfilled the criteria necessary to qualify 
for the cashback offer as per the terms and conditions of that offer. Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
TSBs response, especially as the full terms and conditions of the offer, including the 
qualifying criteria, hadnt been presented to him when he opened the TSB account through 
the website. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel TSB had acted unfairly 
by not awarding the £132 to Mr C because he hadnt fulfilled the necessary criteria. Mr C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C applied for a new TSB account through the website. And the website is a third-party 
company separate to TSB. This is important, because Mr C has expressed his 
dissatisfaction with the information he was presented with by that third-party company.
But Mr C has raised this complaint against TSB. And so, my remit here is limited to 
considering the actions of TSB. And I cant hold TSB accountable or responsible for the 
actions of a third-party company over whom they have no direct control.
Ultimately, Mr C didnt fulfil the criteria required by TSB as per the offer for him to qualify for 
the £132 cash reward. Mr C has explained that he wasnt aware of the full criteria required to 
qualify for the cash reward and has said that he would have ensured that he met that criteria, 
if hed been aware of it. But I dont feel that its TSBs fault that Mr C wasnt aware of what he 
needed to do to receive the £132.
Mr C has confirmed that the offer page on the website included a terms and conditions tab, 
which he checked, and which didnt include any reference to the qualifying criteria of the 
offer. And Mr C has sent a screenshot of a different but similar offer from TSB that is 
presently available on the website.
But the terms and conditions tab that Mr C has sent a screenshot of, is the terms and 
conditions for the offer of the website itself, and isnt TSBs terms and conditions. And 
notably, the seventh (and final) clause of the websites terms is that customers should also 
see the retailers standard terms and conditions for purchase as listed on the retailers site. 
As such, Im satisfied that the websites own terms referred applicants to TSBs website 
directly, to confirm TSBs own terms and conditions for the offer. 
Mr C has also noted that TSBs qualifying criteria for the offer is available on the website 
under a tab titled cashback details. But Mr C feels that its unfair that this information should 
be hidden within a tab and should be visible on the main page for the offer.
But as explained above, TSB have no control over how the website chooses to display 
information. And the information about what Mr C needed to do to qualify for the cash 
incentive was available for Mr C, either via the cashback details tab about which he is 
unhappy, or via TSBs website  to which he was directly referred via the terms and 
conditions of the website.
All of which means that I dont feel that TSB have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here. This is because the cashback offer that Mr C is unhappy about had specific criteria he 
needed to meet, but which he didnt meet. And this means that Mr C didnt qualify for that 
offer. And if Mr C wasnt aware of the criteria that he needed to meet to qualify for TSBs 
offer, I dont feel that this was because of any error or omission by TSB.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint against TSB or instructing them to take any further or 
alternative action. I hope Mr C will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman