DRN-3282476
The complaint
Mr R complains about the steps Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) took when he asked for help 
managing the overdraft facility on his bank account.
What happened
Mr R contacted Lloyds and asked for help with his overdraft in January 2020 his overdraft 
limit was £1,450. A three month plan was agreed to pay back the overdraft on a reducing 
basis (meaning his overdraft limit would be reduced by the amount he paid each month) as 
long as Mr R repaid £20 each month interest and fees would be frozen.
Mr R called Lloyds three months later to renew the arrangement and agreed to pay £50 per 
month towards his overdraft reducing his limit by the same for a further three months. During 
the call Mr R was informed that the arrangement could only last for 12 months and if the 
overdraft wasnt paid off in that time the account would be closed and passed to a recovery 
department and that this could negatively impact his credit file.
Mr R complained that he hadnt been told this information previously. Lloyds agreed that it 
couldve provided a better explanation and paid Mr R £200 in compensation. It also agreed 
to put a note on his account to ensure he wasnt restricted in the timescales for any 
arrangement to be set.
Mr R failed to call Lloyds in June 2020 to renew the arrangement and his overdraft was 
taken away. But following a call from Mr R, Lloyds agreed to reinstate the overdraft and 
continue the arrangement for another three months with the payments increased to £60 a 
month.
At the end of this arrangement in October 2020 Mr R called to renew the arrangement. The 
Lloyds adviser didnt realise it had been agreed previously there wouldnt be a restricted 
timescale for arrangements and misadvised Mr R that he couldnt renew the arrangement.
Mr R complained and Lloyds agreed, to a further six month arrangement paying £60 a 
month reducing the overdraft by the same and compensated Mr R £60 for the mis-advice 
and £80 for failing to return a call.
In May 2021 Mr Rs temporary overdraft that was part of the arrangement was had a £600 
overdraft limit but his bank balance was in credit  his overdraft had been paid off.  Mr R 
called Lloyds to renew his arrangement and a further three month arrangement was agreed. 
However, Lloyds realised this was an error on its part as the account was in credit and a 
further arrangement shouldnt have been agreed. So Lloyds removed the temporary 
overdraft. 
Mr R complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds said the arrangement of having the temporary 
overdraft on a reducing limit was in place until 1 June 2021. As the account was in credit 
when Mr R called a further arrangement wasnt needed and the temporary overdraft was 
removed. Lloyds didnt agree an error had been made but offered Mr R £50 further 
compensation for failing to call Mr R back when it said it would.  
Mr R was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that Lloyds 
had made some mistakes but overall Lloyds had done enough to put things right for Mr R 
and that it had informed Mr R about the overdraft being a temporary one and that an 
arrangement would show on his credit record. 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I hope that Mr R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  that Lloyds refuse to reinstate an overdraft and 
that it failed to inform Mr R of that an arrangement would show on his credit file. Our rules 
allow me to do that. 
Furthermore, I consider the compensation already paid to Mr R (in total of £340) by Lloyds 
for its errors and Mr Rs other complaint points outlined above, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr R has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr R back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr R says he wasnt told that entering into an arrangement would show on his credit file. But 
in the phone call between Lloyds and Mr R in January 2020 Mr R was told his credit file will 
reflect that you are on an arrangement with the bank  but that it will only have an impact on 
his credit file if he breaks the agreement. In the call Mr R asked for this to be repeated and 
confirmed he was ok with that. 
So I cant say Lloyds made an error here as Mr R was told any arrangement he made with it 
would be reflected on his credit file. Indeed, this is what Id expect as Lloyds has a duty to 
report factually accurate information to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to about 
the way customers manage their bank accounts with it.
Mr R is also unhappy that Lloyds will not reinstate his overdraft. But again, during the call 
when his initial arrangement was agreed Mr R was told his overdraft would be removed and 
a temporary one would be put in place on a reducing basis. While Mr R was in this 
arrangement and meeting the payments all interest and charges were frozen.
I accept that at the point the temporary overdraft was taken away Mr R may have been 
under the impression that there were no restrictions on timescales for any arrangement to be 
set and that he wished to extend his arrangement when it was due to come to an end June 
2021. 
But at this point Mr Rs account was in credit and the whole purpose of the arrangement was 
to assist Mr R in paying off the overdraft when he was in financial difficulty. By extending this 
arrangement Lloyds would effectively be allowing Mr R further credit interest free. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it declined to renew the arrangement as Mr 
R had paid off the temporary overdraft and there was no plan to make. And as such it follows 
that I do not think Lloyds needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman