DRN-3234628
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to protect her from losing 
money to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Miss C made an international payment of £1,901.55 via bank transfer in January 2021, 
believing she was purchasing an item that had been listed on an online marketplace. In 
February 2021, she was asked for an additional payment for customs clearances and paid a 
further £1,166.82. But the items were never received. After being asked for further payment, 
Miss C realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think the payments were significantly 
high, nor that they were particularly unusual or suspicious, considering Miss Cs normal 
account activity. So he didnt think they should have triggered Lloyds anti-fraud systems. 
And he thinks Lloyds acted appropriately in its attempts to recover the funds. 
As Miss C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The payments arent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code as they were international payments.
Miss C authorised the payments, so the starting position would be for Lloyds to follow 
the payment instructions. 
But, taking into account the law, relevant regulations and good industry practice at 
the time, Lloyds would have been expected to monitor accounts and identify 
suspicious activity, such as that which appears unusual or out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, it would be expected to intervene and 
attempt to prevent losses for the customer. In this case, I dont consider the 
payments to be high enough to have flagged with Lloyds. I also note that Miss C had 
made prior payments in recent months that were similar to, or far exceeded, these 
sums  of around £1,200 and £4,500. So the payments made to the scammer 
wouldnt have appeared unusual or uncharacteristic. On that basis, I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Lloyds didnt intervene with the payments. 
Ive thought about what action Lloyds took to recover the funds when it was aware 
Miss C had been the victim of a scam. While it attempted to recover the funds, theyd 
already been removed from the account by the time the scam was reported. I cant 
reasonably expect Lloyds to have done more, or achieved a different result.  
While Im sorry that Miss C has been the victim of a scam and I appreciate the impact this is 
likely to have had on her, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman