DRN-4257992
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the fact that Extra Cover Limited trading as Zego sold him a 
commercial motor policy with a three year protected no claims discount (NCD) and then 
wouldnt honour this.
What happened
Mr N had a rolling 30 day policy covering his vehicle for private hire through Zego. It is not 
entirely clear when from the evidence provided by Zego, but at some point in 2022 Mr N took 
out a new policy which covered his vehicle for social, domestic and pleasure use, plus use 
for hire or reward. When he did this Zego sold him a policy with a three year protected NCD. 
Mr N then seems to have cancelled the policy in October 2022 and asked Zego to send him 
proof of his NCD. Zego told him they would send this, but when Mr N chased it up he was 
told that they couldnt send it as he had a claim outstanding against him from October 2021. 
Mr N complained about this. Zego issued a final response to Mr N in which they explained 
theyd made an error and should not have sold a policy to him with a three year protected 
NCD. And they apologised. They also explained they couldnt provide him with proof of NCD 
whilst his claim was outstanding. However, it seems they did eventually provide him with 
proof of one years NCD.
Mr N asked us to consider his complaint. We asked Zego to provide their file of papers and 
for their comments on the complaint. When they did so they acknowledged again that theyd 
made an error and said they were willing to offer Mr N £75 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
One of our investigators issued her view on Mr Ns complaint in July 2023. She agreed that 
Zego had made an error and should not have sold Mr N a policy with a three year protected 
NCD. She explained that she didnt consider it appropriate to ask Zego to provide proof of a 
three year NCD as Mr N was never entitled to this. However, she did recommend Zego pay 
Mr N £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience and refund what hed paid for the 
NCD protection, plus interest. 
Zego accepted the investigators view. Mr N didnt accept it and doesnt think the 
compensation payable is appropriate or clear. Hes also mentioned he lost earnings as a 
result of Zegos refusal to provide him with proof of what he considers to be the right NCD.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for the same 
reasons.
Its clear Zego shouldnt have sold Mr N a policy with a protected three year NCD, because 
he hadnt earned three years NCD at this point. And Zego could only offer NCD protection to 
customers with a three year NCD. However, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to 
make Zego provide proof of three years NCD, as this would put Mr N in a better position 
than he should be in. I say this because at the point he cancelled his policy with Zego Mr N 
should have had two years NCD, stepped back to one year because of the claim against him 
in October 2021. If and when this claim is closed as non-fault, Mr N will then be entitled to 
proof of two years NCD. If Mr N is unhappy about how long it is taking for the claim to be 
resolved, he can complain separately about this to his insurer and  ultimately  to us. 
It's clear the error by Zego caused a great deal of confusion and frustration for Mr N, as it 
seems he thought he could buy another policy with three years NCD when this wasnt the 
case. However, this should never have been possible, so I dont think hes actually lost out 
financially because of Zegos error, other than because he paid for NCD protection when he 
shouldnt have done. In view of this, I agree with our investigator that Zego should refund the 
extra Mr N paid for this, which seems to have been £8.68, plus interest. 
I also agree with our investigator that Zego should pay Mr N £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of their error. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint and make Zego do 
the following:
Refund the extra Mr N paid to protect the NCD on his policy, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date he made the payment to the date they refund it1. 
Pay Mr N £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint about Extracover Limited trading as Zego and order them to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Extracover Limited must tell Mr N if they have made a deduction for income tax from the 
interest they pay. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a 
tax deduction certificate for Mr N if asked to do so. This will allow Mr N to reclaim the tax 
from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.