DRN-1429267
 
The complaint
Miss H complains about excessive account charges on her Santander UK Plc account.
What happened
Miss H says the Santander account charges over the last three years have been excessive 
and have caused her significant financial hardship. She says the charges have caused a 
cycle of debt and are unfair, and she would like them refunded. Miss H says Santander has 
refunded about £50 of charges which is not enough.
Santander says the charges have been applied in line with the account terms and conditions 
and it hasn't made a mistake. It says it offered help to Miss H when she contacted it and 
refunded two months of charges to help, and that it's specialist team spoke to her. 
Santander says it had no contact with Miss H before she made contact in November 2019.
Miss H brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with the account terms and conditions and that 
Santander had acted fairly by refunded some of the charges. The investigator didn't think 
Miss H had made contact with Santander until November 2019 and so couldn't be expected 
to help Miss H without that contact.
Miss H doesn't accept that view and says in summary that those conclusions are bias and 
Santander's refund of charges is an insult. She says the charges were not applied in line 
with the terms and conditions, as they were not as a result of her payments. Miss H says in 
any event Santander's policies are unfair and questions the amount of the charges. She 
says Santander didn't give her help when she asked for it. And says its decision not to 
refund historic charges going back over a month can't be right or fair. Miss H also says the 
fact she didn't make contact with Santander, doesn't mean she wasn't in financial difficulties 
and will take court action if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss H would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can't see any evidence that Miss H rejected any 
changes that may have been made to those terms and conditions during the time she held 
Santander accounts. I'm satisfied those terms and conditions say that Santander will make 
charges, for example for returned direct debits or for an account exceeding its overdraft 
facility. So I don't think Santander made a mistake here or acted unfairly by applying charges 
to Miss H's account in these circumstances where she entered an unarranged overdraft or 
where a direct debit was returned. I don't think it matters how the account entered into an unarranged overdraft and I have not seen any evidence that Santander made a mistake in 
applying these charges.
I appreciate Miss H says the charges are unfair and excessive and that we ought to evaluate 
the fairness of Santander's policies. But I should explain to Miss H that following a Supreme 
Court case in 2009 it was held that bank charges can't be challenged on the grounds they 
are too high and so unfair. So that means I can't fairly question the size of the charges 
applied to Miss H's account and it would be for a court to decide if a contract's terms and 
conditions were unfair.
I also appreciate that Miss H says Santander's policy not to refund historical charges is 
incorrect and unfair. I'm satisfied that Santander refunded two months charges as a gesture 
of goodwill which would have helped Miss H . I think on balance that its policy is not to offer 
a greater gesture of goodwill to take into account, as it calls them, historical charges. I don't 
think that means that it would not refund older charges if it made a mistake. And I make clear 
to Miss H that if I felt the charges were applied unfairly then I could order that all of them be 
refunded.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But I don't think that means that all charges should automatically be 
refunded to those customers in such difficulties. I can see that Miss H made contact with 
Santander in November 2019 and that it refunded about two months of charges and that its 
specialist debt team spoke to  Miss H. So I'm satisfied Santander has acted positively and 
sympathetically and I don't think it could have done more to help Miss H if she didn't make 
contact with it. I accept that Miss H says she was in difficulties some time before she made 
contact and that it ought to have been obvious to Santander. But I think it was up to Miss H 
to make contact and I think Santander had asked her to do so before she did. I don't think 
Santander could know what Miss H's difficulties were until she told it and couldn't reasonably 
be expected to offer help until its specialist team spoke to her.
Overall I don't think Santander has made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also think Santander 
has tried to help Miss H. I accept that Miss H is unlikely to accept my decision and I can see 
that she wishes to consider taking her complaint to court. In those circumstances I'm 
satisfied that brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out this complaint informally, can do 
to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman