The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a pension policy, and then not provided enough 
information when buying his pension annuities, by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited.
What happened
Mr B had five pension plans with Prudential.
Between 2010 to 2013 he used these pension plans to purchase five annuity policies to give 
him a retirement income.
Mr B was contacted by Prudential in September 2018 informing him that they would be 
conducting a review of his annuity sales. This was in response to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Thematic Review in 2015 of non-advised annuity sales.
At the conclusion of the review Prudential found that one of his annuities didnt comply with 
the FCA guidance regarding information that needed to be provided. Given Mr Bs medical 
conditions at the time he took out the annuity, it was considered that he may have been 
eligible for an enhanced annuity. Prudential adjusted his annuity. That annuity was increased 
from £385.56 to £388.32 a year. Prudential calculated that a lump sum of £27 was due for 
the time that the enhancement should have been paid since Mr B had taken this annuity. 
They added interest of £8 adjusting it for tax. 
Mr B complained to Prudential for a number of reasons. He complained that one of his other 
pension plans was mis-sold by Prudential. He disagreed with the result of the review of his 
annuities and stated that all his annuities had been mis-sold. He disagreed with the level of 
enhancement for the annuity that failed the review. He was also disappointed with the delay 
in conducting the review. 
Prudential responded to Mr Bs complaints. They didnt consider the pension plan Mr B 
questioned had been mis-sold in 1988. They didnt uphold the complaints about the reviews 
of the annuities. They did accept that the review had taken longer than they said it would, 
and that they hadnt kept Mr B informed. They apologised for the delay and offered £150 
compensation for that.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaints to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the circumstances. She didnt think that Prudential had done anything wrong in the sale 
of the pension in 1988 or in the result of the reviews of Mr Bs annuity sales. She thought 
that the compensation offered for the delays was fair but questioned why Prudential had 
delayed making the payment. Prudential subsequently paid the £150 compensation and a 
further £100 for the confusion that delayed the payment.
DRN-1746063Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view, so this case has been referred for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B has a number of issues with his pension products with Prudential. I know 
that Mr B feels strongly about the annuity products that he now has, and I understand the 
impact that the choices made about those annuities have on his retirement. So I know that 
Mr B will be disappointed to see my thoughts on his case. To help make my decision clear 
Ive addressed his points under the following headings:
Mis-sale of pension plan
Mr B has said that one of his pension plans was mis-sold. He was self-employed and had 
taken out five pension plans with Prudential over the course of his working life. The plans 
were taken out at different times, so the products differed in the way they worked. They also 
differed in the way they performed over the periods the funds were invested.
The pension that is subject of this complaint was sold in 1988. A complaint about it was 
addressed by our service in 2013. That complaint was that it hadnt achieved the same 
performance as Mr Bs other pensions. Our service issued a view at the time that didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive looked at Mr Bs views on this subject and understand his 
disappointment that it didnt achieve the growth he expected. I havent seen any significant 
evidence that I dont think was available in 2013 so I wont revisit the same issues that have 
already been dealt with. Ill concentrate on the points that Mr B brings now.
Mr B says that, at the point of sale in 1988, he wasnt made aware of differences in this 
policy to the others he had. He says he doesnt believe his needs were matched to the policy 
he was sold. He feels that he was not properly advised and so was mis-sold that pension.
At the point of taking out this pension in 1988, Mr B was already a customer of Prudential 
having existing pensions with them  taken out in 1971, 1976 and 1982. Given what Ive 
seen from Mr B and from Prudential, it seems likely that in 1988 Mr B wanted to increase the 
provision of his pension in retirement. I havent seen that Mr B was provided financial advice 
in more general terms and Im now not able to know what would have been discussed with 
Prudentials representative in 1988. Prudential werent required to keep records of those 
conversations then.
Prudential have provided us with a copy of the Prudential Personal Pension Scheme 
Members Booklet from 1988 that Mr B was given. It explains the way in which that scheme 
would operate. Whilst I cant know what Mr B was told by Prudentials advisor, this booklet 
does indicate that the information Mr B was provided on this scheme was fair and he had the 
opportunity to consider it.
With the information that I have today, I have to decide if the pension product that Mr B was 
sold was appropriate for his needs at that time. Mr B was self-employed, so he didnt have 
the option of a pension with employer contributions. And as an existing customer of 
Prudential, I think it was likely that Mr B wouldve known that what he would have been 
offered was limited to the product options that Prudential offered.
Given his intention to use that product to save towards his retirement, the pension plan 
offered doesnt seem inappropriate for his needs at that time. Given the fact that he had three pensions running with Prudential and later took out a fifth Im not convinced that Mr B 
would have made a different choice because of any differences in the conditions. The 
product did provide him with options to use the pension towards his retirement income. The 
plan was a with-profits policy which was seen as an appropriate investment for most 
customers at the time, even for more cautious investors. 
I understand Mr Bs disappointment that this product didnt perform as well as he wouldve 
liked, or even in the same way as his other pensions with Prudential did. But this pension 
didnt offer guaranteed returns. The pensions growth was dependant on the performance of 
the funds investments. Because of economic factors they didnt achieve the growth that 
Mr B expected when taking out the pension. Its failure to perform as expected though, isnt 
necessarily evidence that the policy was mis-sold or mismanaged.
For the above reasons Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the sale of his 1988 
pension plan.
Annuities that Prudential said passed their review
I understand that Mr B is concerned that he wasnt treated fairly by Prudential when he 
bought his annuities from them. In the case of the annuity sales, Mr B was not advised by 
Prudential about which type of annuity would best suit him. He also did not seek other 
financial advice.
Mr B was given information by Prudential about the options available to him in using his 
pension fund. Based on the information he was given, Mr B then chose the annuity product 
he wanted. Because Mr B received no face to face advice about what was a very important 
financial decision, its important that the information he was provided was clear in setting out 
his options.
Mr B has questioned this now because of the review that Prudential conducted in 2018. The 
FCA directed what was expected of a business when conducting their review and the means 
of putting things right where any annuity sales didnt comply with the rules. 
Ive checked the information that Prudential relied on in their review. They were required to 
send Mr B a wake up letter in advance of his pension being payable. This needed to 
provide Mr B with information about his options in enough time to consider what he wanted 
to do. 
Those wake-up letters explained that Mr B had the option to use another company to buy his 
annuity. These information packs also said that a better deal might be available elsewhere. 
So I think that in that regard the information was in line with the FCA requirement.
The information packs also explained about the possibility of a higher income from the 
annuity due to medical or lifestyle conditions. The information provided in the wake-up packs 
meant that Prudential complied with the FCA requirement to make customers aware of the 
availability of enhanced annuities.
The information provided by Prudential with the wake-up letters, was followed by annuity 
quotes and Key Fact Documents nearer to Mr Bs chosen retirement date. Prudential have 
provided copies of these documents. These documents repeated some of the information in 
the wake-up packs. They provided further reminders of the availability of enhanced annuities 
for ill health as well as the option of buying annuities elsewhere.For the above reasons I think that Prudential dealt with the review of Mr Bs annuities in line 
with the FCA guidance. I cant see any flaw with their findings in relation to the four annuities 
that they said complied with the guidance. 
I understand that choosing the right retirement product can be difficult. But Prudential didnt 
advise Mr B which choice to make. For the above reasons Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint about these annuity sales.
Annuity sale of 2010
Prudential were unable to demonstrate that they provided Mr B with the information 
necessary for the annuity he purchased in 2010. Mr B hasnt challenged the finding of this 
review.
He is however unhappy with the resulting enhancement to his annuity.
The enhancement was based on the FCA directions. It reflected the fact that Mr B may have 
been entitled to some form of enhancement because of his medical condition at the time. It 
isnt based on whether he qualified for an enhancement with Prudential but considered the 
position across the industry. The medical and lifestyle conditions that Mr B declared for the 
review were such that the difference was only a small percentage change. 
Prudential adjusted Mr Bs annuity in line with specific FCA guidance which I think is fair and 
I cant see that this was worked out incorrectly. For the added interest on Mr Bs past annuity 
payments Prudential used the proposed rate by the regulator too. However, in 
circumstances where consumers have been deprived of funds, our service considers an 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year to be fair for most consumers. Due to the annuity 
amounts being fairly small, the difference in interest only works out as less than £1.56 in this 
case which I appreciate is a very small sum. I also considered that the amount Mr B was 
deprived of was relatively small. However, I remain satisfied that 8% interest should be 
applied.
I can certainly appreciate Mr Bs disappointment that the resulting increase in his annuity 
was so small. But I dont think Prudential treated him unfairly in this respect. So other than 
asking Prudential to uplift the interest payment, I wont ask Prudential to do anything further.
Service and communication
Mr B has been unhappy with the service he received from Prudential. When he was 
contacted about the annuity reviews, their letter explained it would be done within six weeks. 
Mr B pointed out that it took three months before he received an answer and had no contact 
to let him know what was happening.
Prudential accepted this and apologised for the delay. They offered £150 in compensation 
for that. Ive considered whether Prudential treated Mr B fairly in the way they dealt with this 
mistake. The impact of this mistake was that Mr B ended up waiting a further six weeks more 
than he should have to have the answer to his review. Where the review found that his 
annuity had to be increased, Prudential backdated the adjustment so that Mr B was put back 
into the financial position he might have been in according to the review. The difference in 
the amount due was in fact small, so the absence of the additional money for those six 
weeks was not likely to have had a significant impact on Mr Bs financial situation. I think that 
the apology and £150 compensation was a fair way for Prudential to have dealt with this 
mistake.Prudential have also acknowledged that they should have paid Mr B that compensation 
within two weeks of having told him they would. That didnt happen and it took five weeks to 
pay him. Prudential have apologised and paid a further £100 for the frustration and 
inconvenience. For similar reasons to above I think that was a fair way for them to 
compensate for the impact of the short delay in making the payment. I wont be asking 
Prudential to do anything further in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given I uphold Mr B's complaint in part. I request that Prudential pay 
Mr B an additional £1.56 in interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman