DRN-3985087
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank Plc delayed the transfer of his ISA to a new provider. He 
wants compensation for the fall in value of his ISA investments and for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
What happened
Mr T had a stocks and shares ISA with Barclays. He wanted to transfer the ISA to a cash 
ISA with a third-party provider, who Ill refer to as N. 
Mr T says N sent instructions to Barclays on 22 April 2022, but that Barclays didnt sell his 
investments until mid-October 2022 and the transfer wasnt completed until 2 November.
Barclays apologised that it had logged the request as a stock transfer, and not a cash 
transfer, and that this caused the delay. It said it received the transfer request from N on 
5 July and so, if it hadnt made a mistake, the first possible date it would have sold Mr Ts 
investments was 12 July. It used the value of his ISA on this date, compared to the amount 
transferred to N on 2 November. It calculated Mr N had made a loss of £2,133.68. It said 
Mr N would have received interest at a rate of 1.7% on this amount, if it had been transferred 
when it should have and it offered to pay him the lost interest which it calculated to be 
£253.76. It also offered to pay him £250 for the inconvenience it had caused.
Mr N didnt agree that this fully compensated him.
Our investigator agreed that Barclays caused unreasonable delays and that Mr T should be 
compensated. She thought Barclays should have been in a position to sell Mr Ts holdings 
on 10 May and for the proceeds to be transferred to Mr Ts cash ISA with N on 19 May and 
that Barclays should use these dates to calculate Mr Ts loss. She said interest should be at 
the rate of Mr Ts cash ISA with N which was 1.40%. She also concluded Barclays should 
pay Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T agreed and asked for Barclays to pay the compensation to his Barclays account.
Barclays didnt agree. It said, in summary, that N hadnt correctly addressed the transfer 
request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here, but Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays accepts it caused a delay to the transfer because it wrongly treated it as a stock 
transfer. The matter which remains unresolved is what date the transfer should reasonably 
have taken place if Barclays hadnt made a mistake.
The investigator set out in some detail why she thought 3 May should be the date used for 
when Barclays received the transfer instruction. And, after careful consideration, I agree with 
her conclusion. I wont repeat everything again here but, in summary:
Ns records show that it sent the transfer instruction by post on 22 April 2022.
Barclays wrote to N on 3 May saying it couldnt locate Mr Ts account  so it must have 
received the transfer instruction by this date.
Im persuaded that the transfer instruction contained enough information for Barclays to 
reasonably be able to locate Mr Ts account and send the instruction to the correct team 
for action. And that this should only have caused a short delay.
Barclays said it couldnt locate receipt of the postal instructions. But I find it must have 
received them sometime between 22 April and 3 May because it replied. And Barclays didnt 
provide any further comment in response to our investigators conclusion that it should have 
been able to locate Mr Ts account with the information it was sent, other than saying that it 
contacted N on 22 June to ask if the transfer was cash or stocks.
In the circumstances, I think its more likely than not that Barclays had received the transfer 
instructions by 3 May. There was likely to be a short delay in it being able to locate Mr Ts 
account and prepare the sales, and I think the investigators recommendation to use the sale 
values on 10 May is fair. Taking into account how long it took to transfer the money to N 
once Barclays did sell Mr Ts investments, I think its reasonable to assume the transfer to N 
would most likely have been completed on 19 May.
Barclays continued to charge Mr T management fees, which he wouldnt have paid had the 
ISA been transferred when it should have. Barclays should refund its fees charged from 
19 May 2022 to the date the ISA closed. As Mr T has been without that money, Barclays 
should add interest at 8% simple on the fee refund.
The transfer of a stocks and shares ISA is generally expected to take up to 30 calendar 
days. The transfer in this case was relatively straightforward as it was a transfer to a cash 
ISA. The transfer took considerably longer  around six months - because Barclays made 
mistakes. During this time, Mr T made several lengthy phone calls to both parties and visited 
a branch to try to resolve things. And he was worried that his investments were decreasing 
in value during this period. I think its fair that Barclays pay Mr T £300 to compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank plc should:
1. Calculate the value of Mr Ts ISA stocks and shares if theyd been sold on 10 May 2022.
2. Add interest at 1.40% from 19 May 2022 (when the cash should have been received in 
the cash ISA) to the date of settlement.
3. Deduct the amount transferred to N in November 2022 from the total calculated and 
credit this sum to Mr Ts cash ISA held with N.4. Refund its management fees charged from 19 May 2022 to the date the ISA closed. 
Barclays Bank Plc must also pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per 
year from the date the fee was debited from Mr Ts account to the date it makes the 
payment. *
5. Pay Mr T £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank Plc must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank Plc should pay compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman