DRN-3846763
The complaint
This complaint is about a letter Mrs F received concerning outstanding arrears on a closed
mortgage previously held with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
Mrs F held a mortgage with her ex-husband which has outstanding arrears on it. Mrs F
reached an agreement with RBS in 2009 that if she paid her portion of the outstanding
arrears, her liability would end, and her credit report would reflect this.
Several years later, around 2017, Mrs F applied for a mortgage elsewhere and it came to
light that her credit report had not been updated. This resulted in a third-party lender
declining her application and a complaint about this was raised and upheld at the time.
In May 2022, Mrs F received a letter which said there were outstanding arrears on the
account and that she was liable for them. Mrs F complained to RBS as the matter should
have been resolved in 2009, but she has now had further problems in both 2017 and 2022.
Mrs F says this error significantly impacted on her health due to personal circumstances.
RBS looked into Mrs Fs concerns and agreed the letter she received was sent in error  it
should only have been sent to her ex-husband. It apologised for its mistake and said that it
had provided feedback to the staff members involved to prevent this happening again. It
offered Mrs F £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs concerns and they didnt think RBS had done enough to
compensate Mrs F for the mistake. They thought RBS should increase its offer of
compensation to £300. As Mrs F disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2022. Below is an extract of what I said:
I want to start by acknowledging that Mrs F has provided a detailed account of the personal
circumstances that have impacted on her complaint. This includes details of her mental
health, including a report from a relevant professional, and her personal account of recent
and past life events. I want to assure Mrs F that Ive considered all of the evidence she and
her representative have provided, but I will avoid going into detail about the circumstances
as far as possible in this decision. I say this because the level of detail Mrs Fs provided
could reduce her anonymity when my final decision is published  following this provisional
decision.
RBS has accepted responsibility for sending a letter regarding outstanding debt to Mrs F
when it shouldnt have. So, I dont think its necessary to comment on that further. Instead, I
will focus on the impact the error had on Mrs F and whether RBS has done enough to put
things right.
To apologise for the error, RBS sent Mrs F £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
It also said that it had given feedback to the staff involved in the error, as well as informing
managers so that further training could be provided. Im pleased to see that RBS has taken
steps to prevent something like this happening again. But Mrs F has not accepted RBSs
response and I think its reasonable she has concerns about the validity of whats been said
considering whats happened so far.
Mrs Fs debt was settled, and she was removed of all liability over 20 years ago. In addition,
Mrs F had to complain a few years ago because RBS hadnt updated her credit report as
previously agreed. So, Mrs F has doubts about whether shes going to experience further
problems in future. As Ive said above, I can see why Mrs F would feel this way after
everything thats happened. But, at the same time, I dont think RBS can do much more to
confirm there wont be any more errors.
Mrs F has provided evidence that shortly after she received the letter, her mental health was
assessed again. It was documented that the letter had increased her anxiety and symptoms
related to her post traumatic stress disorder. I can also see that her medication was
increased at the same time. The third-party specifically referred to the impact the letter had
had on Mrs F. So, its reasonable to conclude that receiving the letter had a significant
impact on Mrs F.
I empathise with Mrs Fs circumstances and the impact RBSs error has had on her. But I
also need to consider to what extent the error itself was responsible for all of her
circumstances and whether RBS could have anticipated that such an error could have the
level of impact that it did.
Mrs F has explained that her anxiety was amplified by the fact her circumstances had
changed around three months prior. While I appreciate Mrs F thinks RBS is responsible for
triggering that, I dont think RBS could have known that her circumstances had recently
changed or that its error would have increased the impact on her mental health to the extent
that it did. That said, I think RBS would have known, from previous complaints, that an error
such as this would more likely than not have a greater impact on Mrs F than it might on other
customers.
For these reasons, I think compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience, and
pain and suffering caused is appropriate in the circumstances. I understand Mrs F may be
expecting more compensation than this, but I have factored in that the impact is in relation to
one letter sent in error in this case. RBS was able to confirm fairly quickly that the letter was
sent in error and that Mrs Fs home was not at risk.
I appreciate the significance of the impact on Mrs Fs health though, and that is why the
award I have recommended is higher than we would usually award in similar circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings and no further information was provided. 
So, I dont have anything further to add to my provisional decision and for the same reasons 
explained above, I think RBS should increase its award for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to £500. This takes into account the strain its error put on Mrs Fs mental health, and 
the pain and suffering she has experienced as a result.Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should:
Pay Mrs F £500 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to put things right by paying Mrs F £500 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman