DRN-1865180
 
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of C, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) removed his 
account deposit protection.
What happened
Mr C says C's account was covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme( 
FSCS) and received account statements confirming that. He says he noticed that the 
protection was no longer recorded on the account statements from about February 2019 and 
spoke to NatWest about this. Mr C says he was given conflicting information and told to 
contact FSCS directly. He says he may have lost his money and hasn't received a proper 
explanation for what took place. Mr C says he would like compensation for what took place 
and for the protection to be reinstated.
NatWest accepts it ought to have answered Mr C's question instead of referring him to the 
FSCS itself and has apologised. It says C's money was not covered by the scheme as C is a 
holding company.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and says he has now opened a new account with a 
different bank and would like compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Our 
investigator didn't uphold the complaint and didn't think there was evidence that Mr C was 
told his deposit was covered by the scheme and thought NatWest had explained why the 
deposit wasn't covered under the scheme. The Investigator also thought NatWest had fairly 
apologised for not answering Mr C's question and didn't think compensation could be 
awarded for something that didn't happen.
Mr C doesn't agree with that view and says NatWest hasn't applied the rules fairly, and he is 
concerned about other persons deposits. He doesn't accept a holding company appears on 
the list of protection exclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that NatWest hasn't explained matters to Mr C as it ought to but I don't think it 
ought to pay compensation or do anything further for the reasons I will explain. 
I make clear to Mr C that the complainant here is C and not him. So I have to consider the 
impact on C and so I can't order that NatWest pay compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience that Mr C may have been caused even if I upheld all parts of this complaint. 
I have looked at the account opening documents and can see that NatWest has provided 
information within them about the FSCS . So I understand why Mr C would think C's money 
was covered under the scheme. I have no reason to doubt what Mr C says that information 
about the FSCS was on the account statements up to February 2019 and I appreciate that he wanted to know what the correct position was.  I don't think NatWest provided a clear 
answer and I don't think it acted fairly by directing Mr C to check the position himself. But I'm 
satisfied NatWest has fairly apologised for that mistake.
I can see that NatWest has now given Mr C a reason why it says C's account was not 
covered. I appreciate that Mr C says that reason is not valid but I don't think that is 
something I can fairly determine. And in any event I'm satisfied it doesn't matter as C hasn't 
suffered a financial loss and C has opened a new account that does have the required 
cover. We are not NatWest's regulator and it's not our role to tell a business how it interprets 
rules as in this case. But I understand why Mr C would question why a holding company's 
deposits are not covered when there is limited reference to such matters.
I appreciate Mr C says there is a wider issue here and other members of the public may find 
themselves in a similar position. But that is not something I can consider for the same 
reasons I have explained about not being NatWest's regulator.
Overall I don't think NatWest has handled parts of this complaint as it ought to have and I 
think it could have provided Mr C with the reasons for its decision at an earlier stage. But I 
can't fairly order compensation for the reasons I have explained and as I don't think C 
suffered any financial loss. I also can't fairly consider what may have happened but only 
what did take place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman