DRN-3992322
The complaint
Mr P complains that Assurant General Insurance Limiteds customer website isnt functioning 
properly.
What happened
Mr P has a gadget insurance policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. Policyholders 
have the option of reviewing their policy, changing their details and/or making claims through 
a website.
Mr P says that when he went to change some policy details, the website wasnt functioning 
properly. Most pages didnt load or failed repeatedly. He made a complaint in October 2022 
and Assurant told him they were aware of the problem and working on it.
Mr P made a further complaint in December 2022, after he tried to log a claim through the 
website, which again failed. 
Assurant acknowledged and apologised for the issues with the website. And they reminded 
Mr P he could contact then to make a claim over the phone.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He says contacting Assurant by 
phone to change details or make a claim is less efficient and more time consuming. And he 
wants us to ensure Assurant resolve the issues with the website in a timely manner.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Assurant had done anything wrong. She 
thought Mr P had been reminded how to access the service Assurant provide by other 
means.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first of all clarify the role of our service and what were here to do for customers who 
arent satisfied with the financial services they receive.
Were an informal complaints resolution service, which acts as a free alternative to the courts 
when disputes arise between financial businesses and their customers.
Our role is to determine whether a business had made an error which has caused their 
individual customer (our complainant) to be treated unfairly or unreasonably. Where that is 
the case, we can ensure the business takes steps to put the customer back in the position 
they were in before the error happened.
It's not for us to tell a business how to run its operations or processes. We look solely at the 
effect on the customer, whether  and if so, how - theyve been negatively impacted and 
what the business might need to do to put that right.
In this case, Assurant have decided to provide their services in a particular way. The 
technology appears to have temporarily failed them in terms of the on-line service to their 
customers. 
Thats unfortunate  and Assurant tell us theyre working to resolve the issues with the 
website. However, it hasnt fundamentally impacted the service Assurant offer to their 
policyholders. 
Policy details can still be reviewed and/or amended and claims can still be made via a 
perfectly reasonable and useable route (telephone contact).
Mr P was specifically told what telephone number he could use to contact Assurant about 
those matters. The contact number(s) are on the log-in page of the website  and customers 
are told to call if the website is not fully functioning for them. Theyre also included in the 
contacts page of the website.
In short, I can understand Mr Ps frustration given that he prefers to use the website to 
change details and/or make claims, but any negative impact on Mr P of the websites failure 
to function correctly has been minimal. 
I cant reasonably conclude that the service Assurant provide to Mr P has been in any way 
restricted or denied to him. And I cant conclude that Assurant have treated him in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman