DRN-3484420
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the mortgage arranged for her and her ex-husband (Mr R) in 
2005 with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mrs R is unhappy that she is a party to the mortgage when 
her name was not on the property deeds. This has left her in the position that the house has 
been placed within her ex-husbands bankruptcy estate, and she faces losing any rights to 
the property and being made homeless with her children.
In settlement of the complaint, Mrs R wants HSBC to pay her £200,000; representing half 
the current value of the property. She believes that she would have been entitled to at least 
this amount of the property value in divorce proceedings in normal circumstances.
Mrs R is represented in her complaint, but for ease, I will refer to all comments and 
submissions as being hers. 
What happened
In 2005 Mrs R and her ex-husband took out a joint mortgage and home improvement loan 
with HSBC. The mortgage was for £170,000 over 25 years. A two-year fixed rate product 
was linked to the mortgage.  The home improvement loan was for £41,000 and was also on 
a fixed interest rate.
At the time of the application to HSBC, there was an existing mortgage on the property of 
£169,000. The property had been bought a few months earlier as Mr and Mrs Rs marital 
home.
Two mortgage offers were issued to Mr and Mrs R. The first was on 2 February 2005 for the 
main advance and the second on 11 February 2005 for the home improvement loan. Both 
documents confirmed that HSBC didnt advise Mr and Mrs R in relation to the borrowing. It 
said, in light of this, Mr and Mrs Rhad to make their own choice about whether to accept the 
mortgage offers and recommended they seek independent advice before accepting. They 
both signed the first mortgage offer on 5 February 2005 and the second one on 14 February 
2005.
Mrs R has confirmed that she went into a branch of HBSC to sign a Letter of Consent and 
Postponement by Deed (hereafter referred to as the deed of postponement). This document 
was witnessed by a member of staff on 14 February 2005 and the member of staff had the 
same surname as Mrs R. She has put forward that the member of staff was a relative of 
Mr R. The deed confirmed that Mrs R understood that the mortgage was security for the debt 
owed to HSBC. The purpose of the document was to make HSBCs rights over the property 
the primary ones, and Mrs Rs to come after that  for her rights to be postponed. 
Immediately above where Mrs R signed the document was a box in which the following text 
was contained:
IMPORTANT  PLEASE READ BEFORE SIGNING
By signing his Deed you put at risk any interest you have in the Property and Assets, 
possession of which you may have to give up to the Bank.
You must read this Deed and the Mortgage (and, where applicable, the Mortgage Deed 
Conditions which are part of it) carefully on your own, and be sure you understand them.
The Bank strongly recommends that you take independent legal advice.
This Deed postpones your interest to the Mortgage and the Debt secured by it.
Mr R signed the mortgage deed on the same day. The same member of staff who witnessed 
the deed of postponement, also witnessed Mr Rs signature.
The HSBC department that dealt with the mortgage following the documents being signed 
placed it on hold as the surname of the adviser and customers was the same. It received 
conformation a few days later, after checks by the branch manager, that the adviser was not 
related to Mr and Mrs R. The mortgage and home improvement were subsequently 
advanced. 
A new interest rate product was added to the mortgage in 2007. HSBC didnt provide advice 
at this time and again recommended that Mr and Mrs R seek independent advice. They both 
signed the offer. In 2011 the existing interest rate produce was replaced with a new one, and 
an early repayment charge was paid for leaving the 2007 rate early. Another rate was 
applied in 2014.
In 2016 a further interest rate product was added to the mortgage and the term was 
extended. At that time advice was given and Mr and Mrs R signed separate offer documents 
to accept the new arrangement. Both were signed on the same day.
Land Registry information shows that the property was purchased in September 2004 and 
only Mr R was named on the title. Documentation from 2016 when the changes were made 
to the mortgage, detailed that Mr and Mrs R both moved into the property in 2004.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs R split up and Mrs R remained in the mortgaged property with their 
children. She has told us that she has made the mortgage payments ever since. Following 
information coming to light during the divorce proceedings, Mrs R complained to HSBC 
about being a party to the mortgage, but not being named on the title deeds of the property.
HSBC responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that the joint mortgage had 
been taken out in 2005 and was used to redeem an existing joint mortgage on the same 
property  it was a re-mortgage. It said that the property title had been in Mr Rs name only 
and as such, he was the only one who had to sign the mortgage deed. However, Mrs R had 
signed the mortgage offer and a deed of consent, confirming that she was happy for the 
property to be mortgaged to HSBC. It highlighted that both the deed of consent and the 
mortgage offer contained warnings to Mrs R that she should take legal advice, but as it was 
a re-mortgage there was no requirement for that to happen.
In addition, HSBC commented on the concerns that had been raised about the mortgage 
adviser having been Mr Rs cousin and that he prevented Mrs R from seeing key parts of 
documents she signed. HSBC said that it had been provided with no evidence that the 
adviser was related to Mr R. It also said that, as the surnames were the same, additional 
checks were completed that verified that the adviser was not related. It also said that it had 
seen no evidence that the correct protocols hadnt been followed in relation to the mortgage 
application. HSBC also said that it had been Mrs Rs responsibility to read the documents 
she was given before she signed them. It wasnt persuaded there was evidence that the 
adviser had acted inappropriately or caused breaches of the regulators principles.
HSBC didnt agree that Mrs R had suffered the loss that shed claimed due to not being 
properly guided by it. It said that it couldnt agree as Mr and Mrs R already had a mortgage 
with another lender before they approached HSBC. As that mortgage had been used to purchase the property, HSBC believed that she would have benefitted from independent 
legal advice as part of the purchase transaction. It had been at that point Mrs R had 
committed to the property being in Mr R name; before HSBC had been approached for a 
mortgage. In addition, it said that it hadnt been provided any evidence showing that Mrs R 
had been deprived of assets within the divorce because of the situation.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and referred the complaint to this service. 
When doing so she explained that at the time of the mortgage shed recently been married 
and had been told to attend a branch of HSBC with some payslips. Shed been asked to sign 
documents and parts of them had been obscured by the member of staff involved, including 
the suggestion for Mrs R to take independent legal advice. She had signed the documents 
without understanding what they meant and any potential future impact they might have on 
her. Mrs R explained what the cultural environment she lived in meant, in that Mr R dealt 
with their finances and she wasnt allowed to be involved and was expected to simply go 
along with what was decided for her. She also told us about the relationship with her ex-
husband, which ended in 2017.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He highlighted that the mortgage had been taken without advice from HSBC, which 
means it didnt comment on the suitability of the arrangement for Mr and Mrs R. Having seen 
the documentation that was issued in 2005, he was satisfied that it was clear, fair and not 
misleading. In relation to the matter of the HSBC member of staff being a relative of Mr R 
and him conspiring against Mrs R, the investigator wasnt persuaded the evidence showed 
that the member of staff was a relative. In addition, he explained the purpose of the deed of 
postponement and that this was a standard thing for lenders to require when there was 
someone living in the property who didnt also have ownership rights. He also noted that the 
form itself recommended that Mrs R take legal advice. Overall, while he had sympathy with 
Mrs Rs situation, he wasnt persuaded that there was anything that should have alerted 
HSBC to a possible problem and, based on what Mrs R had said about her situation at the 
time, he was persuaded that she would have always joined the mortgage without ownership 
of the property. The investigator also considered that the £250 offered to Mrs R for HSBCs 
mistake in not providing information in a timely manner, was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators conclusion. She said that HSBC had confirmed that 
she should have been given independent advice in 2005 and that the deed of postponement 
should have been talked through before it was signed. However, the form wasnt talked 
through and this was because the member of staff at HSBC hadnt thought it was necessary 
to do so. She went on to confirm that there had been documentation put before the court 
during the divorce (but couldnt be provided to this service), which proved that she wasnt a 
party to the previous mortgage. Further comment was made about this subject, but no 
further evidence provided.
In addition, Mrs R reported that a member of staff when dealing with the more recent 
enquiries, had remarked that it seemed odd that Mr R had paid an early repayment charge 
of almost £5,000 to get out of a four month old mortgage, when the additional borrowing 
could have been quite easily done with the original lender. She considers that this illustrates 
the price Mr R was willing to pay to have his cousin handle the new mortgage. However, she 
accepted that without proof of the relationship between Mr R and the HSBC member of staff 
in 2005, the whole issue of collusion was purely circumstantial and would be dismissed in a 
court of law. However, in Mrs Rs opinion, those circumstances would still leave a subliminal 
effect in the mind of the judge and have some bearing on a judgement.
In relation to the deed of postponement signed by Mrs R on 14 February 2005, she believes 
that the document is invalid as she wasnt shown the mortgage deed. While the mortgage deed was purportedly signed on the same day as the deed of postponement, it was not done 
at the same time. She said that HSBC has no proof that Mrs R was shown the mortgage 
deed, as it was only signed by Mr R.
Our investigator considered what Mrs R had to say, but he wasnt persuaded to change his 
view of the complaint. He reiterated that he hadnt seen anything that he believed should 
have made HSBC thing there was something wrong, or that Mrs R didnt understand what 
she was signing or didnt want to do so. While the investigator agreed that to exit a mortgage 
so early in the term was strange, he didnt think that this should be something that would 
have raised concerns with HSBC, as different lenders had different risk appetites. 
Mrs R responded by confirming that she wanted to accept the compensation payment for the 
delays in providing information. (This request was forwarded to HSBC.) She also said that 
her complaint didnt hinge of the type of mortgage that was arranged - joint borrower, single 
owner. The central issue was that she wasnt talked through the details of the HSBC 
mortgage and that HSBCs justification for this omission is that she would have been given 
relevant advice by the previous lender because she was party to that mortgage  she 
reiterated that she was not. She said HSBC was not entitled to assume that she was a party 
to the previous mortgage, and it had a duty to provide instruction for her to take legal advice. 
Mrs R said that she was given no details of the HSBC mortgage or loan and she didnt see 
the mortgage deed or any document that informed her of the amount borrowed. Mrs R 
believes that HSBC abrogated its responsibility to provide information to Mrs R on the false 
premise that she was a party to a previous loan. She asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration. 
The investigator highlighted to Mrs R that the documentation made it clear that HSBC hadnt 
recommended the mortgage and hadnt given advice about it. While Mrs R may not have 
read the documentation, it recommended that the applicants seek independent advice. He 
also confirmed that he hadnt seen any evidence that HSBC was aware of any difficulties 
Mrs R was going through and he couldnt hold it responsible for not knowing. He confirmed 
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has been very open with us about everything that shes gone through, and I thank her 
for her frankness and honesty. Shes clearly been through some very difficult times, and it 
cant have been easy recounting things to us as part of this complaint. I havent detailed 
everything that shes told us to protect her privacy, but I can reassure Mrs R that Ive read 
and considered everything. 
Mrs R has accepted the offer in relation to the delay in providing her with information, so I 
wont comment further on that matter.
When reviewing a complaint, we will place weight on all of the relevant evidence we receive 
from all sources, as well as our knowledge of regulation and normal industry practice. There 
is value to point-of-sale documentation and records, as theyre contemporaneous; so they 
should reflect what happened at the relevant time. Often, the events outlined by the 
documentation and processes are more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. Such recollections can also often be coloured by hindsight, which is not something that is appropriate for me to apply, or take into account, when considering a 
complaint.
Mrs R has said that she was told to take her payslips into a HSBC branch, and she was then 
presented with the deed of postponement to sign. She initially told us that Mr R was there 
and that he stopped the HSBC member of staff from talking her through the deed and that 
the member of staff obscured certain parts of the document from her because he was 
colluding with Mr R (due to him being a relative). Latterly, Mrs R has said HSBC didnt take 
her through the deed of postponement because HSBC didnt think it needed to because of 
previous advice it believed Mrs R had been given. Latterly Mrs R has said that Mr R signed 
the mortgage deed at a different time, and she wasnt shown it, so the deed of 
postponement she signed wasnt legally binding on her. 
I wasnt present when the events Mrs R is commenting on took place, but if the balance of 
the evidence showed that the member of staff had behaved inappropriately and denied a 
customer essential knowledge, that would be a serious matter. However, while Mrs R has 
said that the member of staff in 2005 was a relative of Mr Rs, the contemporaneous 
evidence doesnt show that to be the case. 
I would explain that banking institutions have rules in place regarding members of staff being 
involved in family members financial arrangements due to the potential for conflicts or 
interest and inappropriate behaviours, including economic control and fraud. In this case 
HSBC placed the mortgage and loan on hold for a few days when it noticed that 
Mr and Mrs R and the member of staff had the same surname. It was confirmed at that time 
by the branch manager that there was no familial relationship. As such, I cant conclude that 
there was such a relationship that could, and did, lead to the member of staff not following 
process and colluding with Mr R to deceive Mrs R or to keep her ignorant about the 
mortgage arrangements.
I note Mrs Rs most recent comments about this issue, in that shes accepted that a court 
would find the suggestion of a relationship and collusion to be purely circumstantial, but that 
it would colour the judges conclusions. I wont comment on whether Mrs R is right in her 
beliefs, as it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on judicial process. However, I 
would confirm that I cant allow, in the circumstances, the suggestion of a relationship 
between Mr R and the member of staff colour my conclusions. Nor can I make the 
assumption that normal procedures werent followed by HSBC.
As our investigator has pointed out, this mortgage was applied for without advice from 
HSBC. This means that HSBC wasnt involved in making decisions about what type of 
mortgage Mr and Mrs R applied for, for what amount or over what term. This means that it 
was Mr R and possibly Mrs R, who decided to apply for a mortgage in joint names, in the 
knowledge that the property title was only in Mr Rs name. They would have had to sign the 
application forms for the mortgage and the home improvement loan and submit them to 
HSBC. Following this, HSBC would have asked for any supporting documentation it needed. 
It would have been at this stage that Mrs R would have needed to supply her payslips, not 
after application had been accepted and the offers had been made, as she has recollected. 
The applications would have been considered and we now know, both were accepted. 
HSBC then made an offer for the main mortgage, which Mr and Mrs R signed on 
11 February 2005. The offer for the home improvement loan was produced shortly thereafter 
on 14 February 2005. It appears that both Mr and Mrs R attended the HSBC branch on the 
same day and signed the offer for the home improvement loan. Mr R also signed the 
mortgage deed and Mrs R signed the deed of postponement. I note Mrs Rs recent comment 
that she didnt see the mortgage deed and Mr R didnt sign it at the same time as she signed the deed of postponement. However, its clear from Mrs Rs earlier recollections that there 
was a meeting between her, Mr R and the member of staff from HSBC.
Given my conclusion above about the potential for collusion between the member of staff 
and Mr R, it would seem more likely that all the documentation signed that day was signed in 
that one meeting. So the signed mortgage deed would likely have been available in the room 
for Mrs Rs consideration. That said, even if there had been a separate meeting arranged for 
her to sign the deed of postponement, it would have been standard procedure for a copy of 
the mortgage deed, whether Mr R had already signed it or not, to be available for Mrs Rs 
review. 
Having seen HSBCs procedures regarding a deed of postponement, while its member of 
staff wouldnt have been able to advise Mrs R to sign the document, it was standard 
procedure for the document to be talked through. Mrs R has said that the member of staff 
started to do this, but Mr R stopped him and said he would explain the deed to her 
afterwards. In light of my findings above about the lack of evidence of a relationship and 
collusion, I find it unlikely that if Mr R had attempted to stop the document being explained to 
Mrs R, the member of staff would have agreed to progress the mortgage. Even in 2005, that 
type of behaviour would have raised concerns. That said, I accept that given what Mrs R has 
said about the cultural environment she was living in at that time, she may not have paid 
much attention to what she was being told and is unlikely to have felt comfortable to have 
sought independent legal advice, as the deed recommended she should.
I would also comment that the explanation of the deed of postponement wouldnt have 
touched on Mrs Rs rights to the property in the event of the marriage failing. That wasnt the 
purpose of the deed, rather it would have been explained that the deed would place HSBCs 
rights to the property above any rights she had. It wouldnt have been commented on what 
rights Mrs R did or might have.
Mrs R has in her more recent correspondence confirmed that her complaint isnt about the 
type of mortgage she is a party to, in that shes not named on the title deed. However, I am 
satisfied that was part of the complaint initially. As I have said above, the mortgage was 
taken out without advice from HSBC. So it cant be held responsible for whether the 
mortgage was suitable for Mr or Mrs R. While a joint borrower, single owner mortgage 
arrangement is not the most typical arrangement for a mortgage, it is not unusual and 
especially so in the type of cultural environment Mrs R has explained she came from. I cant 
find that HSBC was wrong to grant the mortgage it did. I am also satisfied that given the type 
of environment Mrs R lived in, I dont think that anything HSBC said to Mrs R or 
recommended she do, would have made a difference to whether she would have signed the 
documentation to become a party to the mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 
20 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman