DRN-3181092
The complaint
Miss P complains Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance unfairly ended her 
conditional sale agreement.
What happened
On 11 January 2020, Miss P entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a used 
car. The cash price of the car was £19,000 and the total amount payable over a term of 48 
months was £22,656.98. The monthly repayments under the agreement were £319.93 
followed by 1 payment of £7,300.34 on the 49th month  this payment is also known as the 
balloon payment.
On 13 January 2020, Miss P says she contacted Kia Finance to ask if she could change the 
date of her monthly repayments to the 22nd of each month. Kia Finance agreed to this.
On 20 February 2020, Kia Finance received a letter from an Insolvency Practitioner (IP) 
informing them that Miss P was entering into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
This letter included a list of Miss Ps creditors that were to be included in the IVA. 
On 21 February 2020, Kia Finance wrote to Miss P letting her know it had come to their 
attention that Miss P withheld information about the impending IVA, so they were going to 
rescind the agreement with immediate effect and repossess the car. 
On 24 February 2020, Miss P says the car was repossessed at her place of work.
On 27 February 2020, the IP wrote to Kia Finance again and said Miss Ps conditional sale 
agreement is to be treated as a priority commitment and so its to be excluded from the IVA.
Agreement being rescinded 
Kia Finance said Miss P didnt tell the dealership about the impending IVA at the time. And 
because of the IVA, Miss P was in breach of a clause in the agreements terms and 
conditions which set out. Therefore, a settlement letter was sent to Miss P in February 2020 
letting her know that the settlement figure was £19,355.14  Kia Finance said this was as a 
result of deducting a rebate of £3,301.84 from the outstanding balance of £22,656.98. 
However, since then, Kia Finance sold the car at auction for a total of £12,295 and Kia 
Finance have provided us with a screenshot to show an additional £3,651.98 was deducted 
from the balance for reasons that are unclear to me. So, from the screenshot Kia Finance 
have sent us, the outstanding balance appears to be £6,705.
Miss P didnt think this was fair for Kia Finance to do as she says shed only looked into the 
details of entering into an IVA, but she didnt go ahead with it. Miss P also says she made 
one payment towards the agreement which was on 24 February 2020  when her car was 
repossessed. But that Kia Finance refunded her this payment.
Miss P says her employment details were incorrect on the conditional sale agreement. Miss 
P says the dealership used her previous employer name and got her length of employment 
incorrect  it was down as 31 years. Miss P says she was told that as shed only been at her 
current employer for around a month, that it was better to use her previous employer details 
as shed been there for a long time. However, Miss P says the dealership got her length of 
employment incorrect and that what they put down couldnt have been right as it would mean 
she would have started work with this employer at the age of ten.
Kia Finance say the application went through an auto-underwriting proposition. So, they 
hadnt seen the application and therefore, couldnt challenge the discrepancy in employment 
details. Kia Finance asked the dealership about this and they say the length of employment 
on the agreement was a typing error  that it wasnt supposed to display as 31 years. 
However, the length of employment was correct on a different form which Kia Finance say 
was completed by Miss P. In any case, Kia Finance said had the correct term of employment 
been entered, the agreement still would have been accepted.
Kia Finance then said they checked with the department who reviewed Miss Ps finance 
application and they confirmed Miss P met their affordability and credit checks that were 
undertaken. However, Kia Finance also say that further checks should have been done at 
the underwriting stage as Miss Ps financial situation wasnt suitable for the agreement. Due 
to the employment details being incorrect, Kia Finance later told us they rescinded the 
agreement for this reason  which is different to the reason previously provided.
Miss Ps belongings in the car
Miss P says when her car was repossessed, she didnt get the chance to retrieve some of 
the items that she left in there. Miss P has provided us with messages between her and the 
recovery agent on 2 March 2020 where she let them know she had items in the car that she 
wanted to collect. The recovery agent asked Miss P when she wanted to collect them, 
however, theres no further evidence of a response.
Kia Finance have provided us with a letter they sent to Miss P on 11 March 2020 asking her 
to arrange a time to collect her belongings and listed the two items that were in there. Miss P 
says she had an additional five items in the car which werent mentioned in Kia Finances 
letter. 
On 16 March 2020, Miss P called Kia Finance to let them know shed received their letter 
and wanted to email over a list of items that were in the car. Miss P was advised that she 
would need to email the auction house as they were going to sell her car.  
On 1 May 2020, Miss P told Kia Finance that the items were no longer in the car. Kia 
Finance went to find out about this and during a call on 26 June 2020, Kia Finance advised 
that the auction house provided images showing only two items were in the car  the same 
two items that were listed in Kia Finances letter on 11 March 2020. 
Miss P remains adamant there were more of her items in the car and doesnt think its fair 
that these werent returned to her.
Impact on Miss P
Miss P has provided us with detail about the health issues she suffers from and that have 
been made worse due to whats happened. Miss P says it was distressing for her to find out 
that the repossession agents had turned up to her previous employers and her current 
employers to find out where the car was. Miss P feels this is a breach of her information and 
made her health issues worse by the inconvenience caused. Miss P also feels that this issue 
has impacted her credit file and that she wont be able to take out another finance 
agreement for a car due to this.What our Investigator said
Our Investigator looked into Miss Ps concerns and concluded that Kia Finance hadnt been 
consistent in their reasons for repossessing the car. And he felt that Kia Finance werent fair 
in relying on the clause they mentioned in the terms and conditions as this was under the 
heading bankruptcy. So, he didnt think this was relevant in Miss Ps circumstances as she 
enquired about an IVA. Therefore, our Investigator didnt think Kia Finance acted fairly. In 
any case, our Investigator said if Kia Finance had concerns about Miss Ps financial situation 
at the time of the application, they should have conducted further affordability checks and 
that it wasnt fair for them to do so after.
In relation to the employment details on the application form, our Investigator said he was 
persuaded by Miss Ps version of events and that he felt it was more likely than not that Miss 
P was advised by the dealership to use her old employers details for the purpose of the 
application. But as Kia Finance said, the agreement would have been accepted with the 
correct employment length.
In terms of Miss Ps items that were left in the car, our Investigator didnt think Kia Finance 
had acted unreasonably because theyd informed Miss P that there were items in the car 
and provided her with information on how to collect the items. Our Investigator said Kia 
Finance had also contacted the relevant parties to find out what items were in their 
possession, and that theyd confirmed there were only the two that Kia Finance told Miss P 
about. So, he didnt ask Kia Finance to do anything more. 
Ultimately, our Investigator looked at what Kia Finance needed to do to put things right for 
Miss P as a result of acting unfairly when they rescinded the agreement. In summary he 
said:
Arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss P to pay her liability towards this 
agreement which should be no more than £2,881.09. Our Investigator said this was 
because the vehicle order form showed Miss P had a previous hire purchase 
settlement amount of £10,361.09. Miss P part exchanged her previous car for £7,750 
when entering into this conditional sale agreement. So, this left her with £2,881.09 to 
settle her previous agreement. And this amount was added to the cash price of the 
car that was finance under this conditional sale agreement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded about this agreement from Miss Ps credit 
file.
Pay Miss P £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
rescinding the agreement.
What Kia Finance and Miss P said in response to our Investigator
Kia Finance responded and in summary they said, when underwriting checks were 
completed, they couldnt check for an IVA  theyre only alerted to a potential IVA once an 
application is made, which is what happened in Miss Ps case. They also said while the 
clause in the terms and conditions doesnt specifically refer to an IVA, theres a broad range 
of scenarios covered in the clause. Kia Finance also explained that when an agreement is 
rescinded, they are entitled to the return of the goods and the amount financed, less interest, 
deposit, any payments and the sales proceeds of the vehicle. As there was a loss after the 
car was recovered and sold, Kia Finance said this was why they held Miss P liable for the 
amount that was outstanding. Miss P responded and Ive summarised they key points she made. She remained of the 
opinion that there were more of her items in the car and that they were taken out before it 
was sold. Miss P said she didnt see why she should have to pay anything at all, as shes at 
a loss and she no longer has the car. She also said Kia Finance havent been honest as 
theyve provided more than one reason as to why they decided to rescind the agreement 
and repossess the car. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made
and no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Agreement being rescinded 
There seems to be some disagreement about who filled out the application form at the time 
and about Miss Ps employment details on the form. Additionally, there also seems to be 
some conflicting information from Kia Finance as to why they rescinded Miss Ps agreement. 
Having carefully thought about the information available, I think its reasonable to suggest 
that, despite the different reasons Kia Finance gave for rescinding the agreement, that they 
did so on the basis of the IVA Miss P had enquired about. I say this because Kia Finance 
have given this as a reason more than once and have also confirmed the clause in the 
finance agreement they relied on when rescinding the agreement. Additionally, the letter Kia 
Finance sent to Miss P in February 2020 clearly explained they were rescinding the 
agreement with immediate effect due to the IVA. So, Ill go on to decide whether Kia Finance 
fairly rescinded the agreement because of the IVA.
Soon after Miss P entered into the agreement, Kia finance were made aware that Miss P 
was entering into an IVA by an IP. Miss P says she only enquired about an IVA, and there 
actually wasnt one in place at the time she entered into this agreement. Kia Finance have 
made the point that Miss P ought to have made the dealership aware that she was going to 
enter into the IVA. So there seems to be some discrepancy about whether Miss P had 
entered into an IVA at the point she took out the agreement and whether shed made the 
dealership aware at the time or not. On balance, I dont think it likely Miss P would have told 
Kia Finance about the IVA as shes been consistent in saying shed only enquired about an 
IVA and had never agreed to entering into one. So, I dont think Miss P would have thought 
there was any reason to mention it to the dealership at the time given Miss P says she 
hadnt entered into an IVA.
After Kia Finance received the notification about Miss Ps IVA that was being proposed, they 
contacted Miss P to let her know were going to rescind the agreement as Miss P had 
withheld information about the impending IVA.
In any case, Kia Finance say they rescinded the agreement because Miss P was in breach 
of clause 5.1 of the agreements terms and conditions. Having looked at this clause, it 
displays as:5 BANKRUPTCY
5.1 You will not permit a petition for a bankruptcy order to be presented against you, or 
permit an application for an interim order to be made against you, or call a meeting of 
creditors, or reach any agreement with them.
I dont think it was fair for Kia Finance to rely on this term as its quite clearly under the 
heading bankruptcy. I appreciate Kia Finance say that 5.1 covers several scenarios  one 
being call a meeting of creditors which is what was referred to in the letter of 20 February 
2020 sent by Miss Ps IP. However, I dont think its reasonable to apply this clause to Miss 
Ps scenario given an IVA is very different to filing for bankruptcy. On balance, I dont think it 
would have been unreasonable for Miss P to read this clause and assume that it didnt apply 
to her as she hadnt applied to become bankrupt. So, I dont think Kia Finance fairly 
rescinded the agreement by relying on this term.
I note Miss P says her employment details were inputted incorrectly on the agreement  and 
that this was done by the dealership. Miss P says the length of employment was also quite 
clearly incorrect as it wouldve meant she started employment at the age of ten. Kia Finance 
say the length of employment was a typing error, but that Miss P gave these employment 
details. In any case, Kia Finance say they would have accepted the application for finance 
based on the correct employment details. While Ive considered both parties arguments, Ill 
never be able to know exactly what happened - its clear something went wrong as the 
length of employment is incorrect and I dont think it likely Miss P would have said she was 
employed from the age of ten. Kia Finance have also told us they should have completed 
further checks at the underwriting stage and I think had this been done, its likely they may 
have picked up on the employment discrepancy. With that said, as Ive explained, Kia 
Finance appeared to have rescinded the agreement due to the IVA, so this is what Ive 
looked into.
Ive next gone on to consider whether Miss P owes anything under the agreement as a result 
of it being rescinded. When thinking of what Kia Finance need to do to put things right, I 
think its fair for Miss P to be put back in the position she was in before this agreement was 
put in place.
Miss P says she changed her payment date to 24 February 2020  which was the same day 
her car was repossessed. Having looked at the statement of account, I can see a payment 
was made in February 2020 and March 2020, but these were then refunded at the end of 
March 2020 and May 2020. So, I dont think theres any more monthly payments owed to 
Miss P.
I dont think its fair for Miss P to be held liable for the outstanding balance that Kia Finance 
say is due under this agreement. I say this because Ive already concluded that Kia Finance 
didnt act fairly when they rescinded Miss Ps agreement. So, I wont be recommending Miss 
P repay this amount.
From looking at the vehicle order form Miss P provided us with, I can see she had a previous 
hire purchase agreement in place that had a settlement figure of £10,631.09. The invoice 
shows Miss P part exchanged her previous car for £7,750. So, this left Miss P with 
£2,881.09 outstanding under her previous agreement. I note Miss P doesnt feel she should 
be liable to pay anything. However, Miss P wouldve needed to pay the £2,881.09 that was 
left outstanding on her previous finance agreement  if she hadnt taken out the agreement 
with Kia Finance. So, I think its fair for Miss P to repay this amount. I think its fair for Miss P 
and Kia Finance to discuss the process for Miss P to repay this amount and to agree an 
appropriate and affordable way of repayment. Given my finding that I think Kia Finance shouldnt have rescinded the agreement, I dont 
think its fair for them to report adverse information about this agreement on Miss Ps credit 
file. Therefore, Kia Finance should remove any adverse information about this agreement 
from Miss Ps credit file.
Miss Ps belongings in the car
Miss P has given us a list of items she says were left in the car, such as a bag worth £200, 
CDs, a card and drinks - although Miss P doesnt have evidence of these items being left in 
the car. So, Im unable to determine exactly the losses Miss Ps incurred.
Ive looked at the letter Kia Finance sent Miss P on 11 March 2020 where they asked her to 
collect her belongings and they listed two items. I note Miss P has shared some messages 
between her and the collection agent from 2 March 2020 where she asked to collect her 
belongings. The collection agent then replies and asks Miss P when shed like to collect 
them  these messages dont mention what items were in the car. The letter Kia Finance 
sent Miss P was dated after this message exchange and I can see from Kia Finances 
contact notes that Miss P called them on 16 March 2020. The contact notes show Miss P 
acknowledges receiving Kia Finances letter of 11 March 2020 as she explains she wanted 
to email a list of belongings she had in the car.
On 20 March 2020, Kia Finance advised Miss P that shed need to email the auction house 
that the car was being sold at and on 1 May 2020, Miss P made Kia Finance aware that her 
belongings were no longer in the car. Kia Finance confirmed that theyd contact the 
collection agents as well as the auction house. Kia Finance attempted to contact both parties 
again on 29 May 2020 to find out about the belongings Miss P referred to. So, I think its 
reasonable to suggest Kia Finance were doing what they could to help Miss P at this point.
On 26 June 2020, Kia Finances contact notes show that the auction house provided images 
of only the two items Kia Finance included in their letter of 11 March 2020. However, Kia 
Finance havent provided evidence of these images. Miss P cant provide evidence of the 
items shes mentioned neither. However, the items that were confirmed by Kia Finance in 
the letter of 11 March 2020 are also the same items mentioned in Kia Finances contact 
notes which were confirmed by the auction house at a later date. So, I think on balance, if 
there were more items in Miss Ps car that they would have been noticed by at least Kia 
Finance when they sent their letter to Miss P or the auction house. And without evidence of 
the losses Miss P says shes incurred; I cant fairly ask Kia Finance to reimburse her for 
these. 
Impact on Miss P
Miss P has told us about her mental health issues which she says were made worse due to 
this issue. Miss P also told us the distress caused when her car was repossessed at her 
place of work  Miss P says her employers werent aware of the situation and the fact that 
this happened at her work caused her embarrassment. Miss P also says the repossession 
agents first turned up at her previous place of work trying to find the car and that her 
previous manager called her to let her know that there were people with him attempting to 
find her. I can appreciate Miss P was caused distress by information that was being shared 
about her without her consent. And that she was concerned by the repossession happening 
at her place of work - especially as I havent seen any evidence to suggest Kia Finance told 
Miss P, they were planning on coming to her work to repossess her car. Its understandable 
that Miss P didnt want her employers to know about what was going on in relation to this 
issue.Additionally, I dont think Kia Finance have been consistent with the reason why they 
rescinded the agreement. I think this has caused confusion to Miss P at a time where she 
was trying to get to the bottom of exactly why the agreement was being rescinded. 
Miss P also says she was dealing with personal issues at the time and not having a car 
impacted her being able to get around and to get to a safe place. Miss P says she suffers 
from an injury which makes it difficult for her to walk long distances and carry shopping. But 
without a car, she had no choice but to find other means of getting around. While I 
empathise with Miss Ps situation and I dont wish to downplay Miss Ps health issues in any 
way, I dont think Kia Finance could have foreseen the difficulties repossessing Miss Ps car 
in February 2020 was going to cause her. I say this because I cant see from Kia Finances 
contact notes that they were ever aware of the personal issues Miss P was dealing with nor 
that she had an injury at the time which made it difficult for her to get about without a car. 
Nonetheless, while Miss P didnt make Kia Finance aware of the difficulties she faced as a 
result of no longer having a car, Miss P did tell Kia Finance in a call on 10 March 2020 that 
her health has been impacted and that she couldnt get about without her car. Miss P also 
says her health was suffering because of Kia Finance repossessing her car. So, I think its 
clear Miss P was impacted by Kia Finances decision to repossess the car.
Overall, as Ive explained, I think Miss P has suffered distress and inconvenience for the 
agreement being rescinded incorrectly, and the impact of that on her. Therefore, I think Kia 
Finance should pay Miss P £500 compensation. 
Putting things right
As explained, I think the following needs to be done:
Kia Finance to stop pursuing Miss P for any outstanding amount due under the 
agreement as I dont feel shes liable to repay this.
Miss P to repay £2,881.09 and for Miss P and Kia Finance to discuss ways to repay 
this amount.
Kia Finance to remove adverse information about this agreement from Miss Ps credit 
file.
Pay Miss P £500 compensation.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance to carry out the actions as set out in the 
Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman