DRN-3389086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (FLI) have unfairly 
voided an After The Event (ATE) policy they took out to fund legal action.
FLI uses intermediaries to administer its ATE policy and manage claims on its behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts and 
omissions of any such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an ATE policy in February 2020 to indemnify them against costs they 
might have been ordered to pay as a result of their dispute against Shawbrook Bank as a 
result of a timeshare dispute. The dispute proceeded to litigation but was ultimately 
dismissed by the Judge on 18 June 2021. A costs order was made in favour of Shawbrook, 
to be paid by Mr and Mrs B. 
FLI said that there were some significant issues raised by the Judge about Mr and Mrs Bs 
credibility as she was critical of their recollection of which documents had been provided by 
Shawbrook in 2013. The judge found that they had signed/initialled and taken away the 
documents they said hadnt been received. FLI said that Mr and Mrs Bs statement that they 
were not aware of a 14-day cooling off period had been fundamentally undermined by their 
disclosure statement.
As a result, FLI said that Mr and Mrs B had conducted the proceedings in such a manner as 
to have prejudiced its position, such that indemnity would be withdrawn under clause 3.11 of 
the policy. It also decided to void the policy ab initio in line with clause 6.2, on the basis that 
there had been a non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements 
made by the insured. Mr and Mrs B complained that this was unfair and referred the matter 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He didnt think FLI had acted 
unfairly by withdrawing indemnity or voiding the policy based on the findings made by the 
Judge. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered by the ATE policy:
2.1  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Policy the Insurer agreed to 
indemnify the Insured against the payment of the Opponents costs and Own Costs 
(where applicable) and Disbursements if the Proceedings are not Successful up to 
the Limit of Indemnity stated in the Schedule. 
However, the indemnity is subject to the following policy exclusions:
The insurer shall not indemnify the Insured in respect of:
3. Exclusions
3.11  Opponents Costs and/or Own Costs and Disbursements if the Proceedings 
have, in the Coverholders opinion, been conducted in such a manner to have 
prejudiced the Insurers position. 
6. Non-disclosure, misrepresentation and fraud
6.1  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Appointed Representatives and/or the 
Insured is found to have acted dishonestly or adverse findings as to credibility and 
honesty are made by a court, the insurer reserves the right to void the policy ab initio.
6.2  The insurer shall be entitled to void the policy ab initio where there has been 
any non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements made 
by the Insured prior to and after Inception or at any time during the course of the 
Proceedings. 
FLI have decided to withdraw indemnity for the defendants costs in line with clause 3.11, as 
well as voiding the policy in line with clause 6.2, as a result of the criticisms levied at Mr and 
Mrs B by the Judge. So, Ive considered whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably 
by taking the action it has.
Its clear from the judgment that there were inconsistencies between the disclosure list and 
the witness statements/particulars of claim. And it was the disclosure list that the Judge used 
in order to undermine and discredit Mr and Mrs Bs evidence presented in their witness 
statement:
A critical point in my judgment, is that Cs disclosure statement from Sept 2020 
prepared for purpose of the litigation, confirmed and signed by Cs as true, contained 
within it the relevant document which [Mr and Mrs B] say they did not receive until a 
month or so afterwardsthe obvious inference from the combination of the evidence 
is that [Mr and Mrs Bs] recollection that they were not given copies of relevant 
documents on the day in question is simply incorrect.
This ultimately caused the judge to have to 
treat [Mr and Mrs Bs] recollection of events with caution where it does not 
correspond with contemporaneous documents from the time.  
Mr and Mrs Bs legal representatives continue to dispute the Judges findings within their 
submissions to this service, as they contend that Mr and Mrs B signed the documents but 
did not take them away, and that the disclosure list was consistent with their statements. 
However, the Judge went as far as making a finding that the documents were taken away by 
Mr and Mrs B. It is not within the remit of this service to second guess or question the validity 
of a judgment handed down by the Court; it is my role to consider whether the insurer has 
fairly excluded the claim in light of all the circumstances, including the judgment. And while I 
understand that Mr and Mrs B may not have anticipated the Judge making such a finding, 
the fact remains that she did. I appreciate that legal proceedings will often result in a conflict of evidence where once parties account is preferred over that of another. But in this 
instance, the judge went as far as to be critical of Mr and Mrs B for providing recollections 
that were incorrect as a result of how their evidence had been presented. 
So, in light of this, I dont think it was unreasonable for FLI to withdraw indemnity in line with 
Clause 3.1 on the basis that the proceedings had been conducted in such a manner as to 
have prejudiced the insurers position. I dont consider this to be a matter of post claims 
underwriting as Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have alleged either. I appreciate the claim 
originally had prospects of success prior to the trial, but that does not mean the policy is 
guaranteed to indemnify any adverse costs; prospects of success is simply a pre-requisite of 
cover. The policy states that indemnity is still subject to the policy terms, conditions and 
exclusions, and the insurer has simply chosen to withdraw indemnity in circumstances that 
the policy expressly provides for.
As well as withdrawing indemnity in line with the policy exclusion, FLI have also decided to 
void Mr and Mrs Bs policy ab initio in line with section 6 of the policy. I accept there were no 
findings of dishonesty made against Mr and Mrs B by the judge. And this does not appear to 
be in dispute with FLI either, as they have not sought to rely on clause 6.1 which allows the 
policy to be voided in instances of dishonesty. 
FLI have relied on clause 6.2 on the basis that the judge did not consider Mr and Mrs Bs 
statement to be a correct or truthful reflection of what transpired at the sales event. Based on 
what is said within the judgment, I do not consider the insurer has acted unreasonably by 
concluding that Mr and Mrs B have made an untrue statement during the course of the 
proceedings. Due to the unreliable and incorrect nature of what had been confirmed and 
signed by [Mr and Mrs B] as true, the Judge proceeded to treat Mr and Mrs Bs recollection 
with caution as their witness statement and particulars of claim did not correspond with the 
evidence. So, FLI having designated such recollections as untrue is not, in my opinion, 
unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances, which entitles it to void the policy in line with 
clause 6.2.
However, given that Mr and Mrs B cannot be said to have been dishonest or reckless with 
regards to the making of the untrue statement, I do not think it would be fair for FLI to retain 
the premiums Mr and Mrs B have paid for the ATE policy, which I note the insurer has since 
refunded. Therefore, I do not consider the insurer needs to take any further action.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, and I sympathise with the 
difficult position they now find themselves in. But ultimately, Im not persuaded that FLI have 
acted unfairly in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman