DRN-2731665
The complaint
Ms B complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) debited her account with a chargeback 
claim.
What happened
In July 2020, Ms B paid £249.15 for an online training course. She said the service provided 
wasnt what was advertised and asked for a refund. The seller refused. She opened a 
chargeback claim with Starling. Starling credited her account with £248.15 on 4 September 
2020 and opened a dispute through the card issuer. On 29 October 2020, Starling advised 
Ms B that the claim had failed. On 30 November 2020, Starling debited her account with 
£248.15.
Ms B complained. She said that the seller had fallen well short of providing the service it had 
claimed it would. She said that she thought that the fact that Starling had credited her 
account in the first place meant the claim had succeeded. And she wanted to know on what 
basis the disputed transaction had failed to pass the card issuers evidential test. She had 
lost her money and would like it to be refunded to her.
Starling said theyd complied with the card scheme rules  which were that the seller had 45 
days to dispute the chargeback and provide its evidence. The sellers website said the 
service was non-refundable. Starling had been unable to show that the service provided by 
the merchant wasnt as described or otherwise advertised at the time of sale.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said Starling did warn Ms B that 
the money would need to be repaid by her if the claim failed. This practice was common in 
these cases. Starling had explained to Ms B what the reasons for the claim being declined 
were. Overall, Starling had done their best to try to obtain a refund  but the chargeback had 
ultimately failed. He said that Starling didnt need to do anymore.
Ms B asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that Ms B feels very strongly that the seller misrepresented what the service was  and 
she was therefore badly let down when it fell short of what she thought was to be provided. 
But its important to say here that Im not going to go deeply into the pros and cons of what 
the seller did or didnt provide  thats not our role. I am looking at whether Starling dealt with 
Ms Bs chargeback claim effectively and fairly. And I think they did.
I can see that Starling opened a dispute with the card issuer on 4 September 2020. And at 
the same time credited Ms B with the £248.15 shed paid in July 2020 for the service. Ms B 
says this gave her false hope that the claim would succeed. But this process is quite normal 
in chargeback claims  banks do this so as not to leave customers out of pocket while the 
claim is being processed. 
In October 2020, Starling told Ms B that the claim had failed. They did explain to her clearly 
why that was the case  that the sellers website had stated the service was non-
refundable. And theyd not been able to show that the service provided wasnt as described. 
They referred to the sellers use of the term most of the same topics  so there was some 
ambiguity in what the seller promised to provide  and that, along with the statement that it 
was non-refundable, meant that Starling and the card issuer couldnt conclude that the 
service wasnt provided satisfactorily. Ive also seen that the seller said This educational 
course contains intellectual properties and is not refundable. It is clearly stated on our 
website that due to the proprietary nature of this educational course, it is not refundable. Just 
because someone who purchases it, views all of the information and decides it's "Basic" 
does not mean they can simply get a refund. How are they supposed to return an 
educational course? It cannot be returned. They clearly opened the course, went all the way 
through the information and made a personal determination that the course was "basic." 
Again, it is clearly stated on our website that this Course is not refundable.
In a dispute like this, its more difficult to conclude that the training course wasnt as 
described  this is a largely a matter of opinion. This is different to, for example, the 
provision of a physical product like say a pair of shoes  where it is easier to say they 
werent what someone thought they were buying. 
So  I have seen that Starling followed the right processes, and I think reached a reasonable 
conclusion based on what they saw and were told by the seller, and by Ms B.
I can appreciate that Ms B will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Starling to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman