DRN-4303024
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction made on their debit card to purchase funeral plans.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr S and Mrs S arranged funeral plans with a funeral plan company (which I 
will call Firm F). They paid £6800 for them and used their Santander debit card in funding 
this agreement. In November 2022 they were informed Firm F had gone into administration 
and in December 2022 they raised the matter with Santander. Santander then said it was out 
of time to raise a chargeback. So Mr S and Mrs S complained to Santander.
Santander looked into the matter and decided it hadnt done anything wrong with regard to 
its approach to chargeback. However it did acknowledge that its customer service hadnt 
been what it should. So it paid a total of £150 in recognition of what it could have done 
better. Mr S and Mrs S sought a full refund for the cost of the funeral plans, so they brought 
their complaint here.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that Santander hadnt treated Mr S and Mrs 
S unfairly. But Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree so this decision comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry the hear about the health issues suffered here by Mrs S. And Ive considered this 
throughout my consideration of this case.
the transaction
Mr S and Mrs S and their representative dont contest that they made this transaction for the 
funeral plans originally, or that they were applied incorrectly to the account. Accordingly Im 
satisfied Santander didnt do anything wrong in processing the transaction or applying it to 
their account.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S and 
Mrs S do here, Santander can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback 
isnt a right, but this service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the 
time limits and that there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think Santander 
couldve challenged the payments on the basis Mr S and Mrs S didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive already set out.
Within the card scheme rules there are time limits set out for when chargebacks can be 
raised by banks/card issuers. These are timed from dates such as the transaction date or 
date of delivery of service where applicable. There is also a long stop time limit of 540 days 
from the transaction date.
Here Mr S and Mrs S didnt raise the matter with Santander until after this long-stop time 
limit has passed. So Santander hasnt treated them unfairly by not raising a chargeback. 
This is because it didnt have a realistic or indeed any prospect of success, as it was outside 
the time limit to raise the chargeback once Mr S and Mrs S brought this dispute to its 
attention.
I appreciate Mr S and Mrs S have lost out. And I also appreciate theyve not done anything 
wrong. However neither has Santander. And just because Mr S and Mrs S have lost out 
doesnt make it fair that Santander, which isnt responsible for Firm F failing, to cover this 
loss.
I note that there are arguments raised here along the lines that chargebacks in relation to 
Firm F have been successful with other institutions. This may well be the case, but it doesnt 
follow that Santander must have done something wrong. It is quite possible that those 
chargebacks were within the time limit or there were other reasons for refunds to be paid. 
But that doesnt demonstrate that Santander did something wrong here. Indeed Im satisfied 
the matter wasnt raised with it until such a chargeback was out of time. So even if it had 
raised a chargeback instantly it would have still been unsuccessful to my mind.
I also appreciate that Mrs S has significant health concerns. But Santander doesnt operate 
the chargeback scheme operated here and isnt responsible for the rules of the scheme or 
indeed the final decision in any chargeback raised that is in time. And these rules include 
these time limits and unfortunately Mr S and Mrs S raised the issue with Santander too late 
to have a chargeback initiated.
Mr S and Mrs S say theyve been customers for a long time. And Im sure this is the case, 
but that doesnt mean Santander should cover the loss theyve suffered when Santander 
hasnt done anything wrong which would make such a payment fair.
All in all, having considered all of Mr S and Mrs S arguments Im not persuaded theyve lost 
out because of how Santander treated their dispute with Firm F. And having considered 
everything here Im satisfied Santander hasnt treated Mr S and Mrs S unfairly. I think £150 
is a fair reflection of how the customer service could have been better. So Mr S and Mrs S 
complaint about Santander is successful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr S and Mrs S wish to read. And Im sorry they 
find themselves in this position and they clearly feel that Firm F has let them down by 
collapsing. But this isnt Santanders fault. And considering the obligations Santander has, 
Im satisfied it hasnt treated them unfairly in not refunding them what they paid Firm F.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Santander Bank Plc. It has nothing further to do in 
relation to this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman