DRN-2018790
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about a repair carried out on his boiler by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under his Boiler and Controls and Breakdown Cover, which led to a gas leak. 
What happened
A British Gas engineer attended Mr Bs property during April 2019 because Mr B was 
experiencing issues with his boiler. The engineer advised that parts were required and 
returned on 26 April 2019 and fitted the new parts. 
The following morning, Mr B could smell gas.  He called British Gas who told him an 
emergency engineer would be at the property within the hour and that Mr B should open all 
the windows and turn off the gas at the mains. Mr B couldnt turn off the gas at the mains as 
he was already on his way to work. Mr Bs partner and their baby were in the property at that 
time, but Mr Bs partner was unable to turn off the gas at the mains. 
The emergency engineer arrived that day and fixed the leak. Mr B says the emergency 
engineer found that the gas pipe to the boiler was loose and that the gas reading from the 
leak was very high. 
Mr B complained to British Gas. Mr B felt that the British Gas engineer had caused a major 
gas leak. British Gas upheld the complaint. It apologised, cancelled the invoice for the £99 
excess sent to Mr B for the repair, and arranged for £50 to be sent to Mr B by cheque in 
recognition of the inconvenience of the matter. One of British Gas service managers also 
contacted Mr B to discuss his concerns and explained that appropriate action had been 
taken in respect of the engineer that fitted the parts to Mr Bs boiler.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He felt £50 was not enough compensation for the quality of 
the work and the position that this left his family and property in - especially when he felt it 
was down to luck that nothing serious happened. He also wanted British Gas to review the 
engineer who first attended Mr Bs property as well as its procedures. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He empathised with Mr Bs distress about 
what could have happened, but explained compensation isnt decided by what might have 
happened but rather by what did happen. Our investigator felt that £50 compensation was 
reasonable as there was no damage or injury and the leak was fixed by British Gas the 
same day it was reported. Our investigator said that we couldnt require British Gas to take 
action against a member of its staff, but noted British Gas said it had taken up the matter 
with the relevant engineer.
Mr B did not agree with our investigators view. He didnt feel £50 and waiving the £99 
excess was enough for the distress caused to him and his family when they realised how 
serious the gas leak was. He also felt mistakes like this shouldnt happen.  Mr B also said 
British Gas never offered to reimburse him for the cost of the leaked gas.
The case was then referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked Mr B how much compensation he was seeking for the leaked gas. Mr C provided his 
bills from the middle of February 2019 until the beginning of November 2019. He estimated 
the cost of the leaked gas to be £65-85.
I asked British Gas for an estimate of the cost of the leaked gas given the nature and the 
duration of the leak. British Gas provided smart meter readings for Mr B for April 2020 and 
an estimate of the average daily cost of Mr Bs gas at the time of the leak.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint by requiring 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £5 for the cost of the leaked gas and to pay the 
£50 compensation it had already offered to Mr B if it hadnt already done so. 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
It is not in dispute that the gas pipe to Mr Bs boiler was not properly connected by a British 
Gas engineer and that this led to a gas leak lasting about a day. So it is fair that British Gas 
has offered Mr B compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this. But because Mr B 
does not feel £50 and the cancellation of his £99 excess is enough compensation, Ive 
considered what compensation would be reasonable here.
When Mr B reported the gas leak to British Gas, it told him an emergency engineer would 
attend his property that same day. It also provided him with safety advice to follow until the 
engineer arrived. The engineer attended as arranged and fixed the leak that day. So I am 
satisfied that British Gas did what I would have expected of it here. 
I accept Mr Bs distress when he thinks what could have happened if a spark had ignited the 
escaped gas  especially given that his partner and baby were in the property at the time of 
the leak. So Ive considered whether British Gas award is reasonable given Mr Bs distress. 
Ive also considered the trouble and upset caused to him and his partner by the leak and 
having to contact British Gas to get the leak fixed. The leak caused no personal injury or 
damage to Mr Bs property and gas was leaking for around one day. So I think £50 and the 
cancellation of the £99 excess for the boiler repair is reasonable compensation here.
Ive also considered whether Mr B should be compensated for the leaked gas. Mr B says 
that when British Gas advised him to turn off the gas at the mains, he was on his way to 
work and so was unable to turn off the gas. He says his partner, who was at the property, 
was also unable to turn off the gas. Despite this, I think Mr B should be compensated for the 
leaked gas from the time of the repair as there wouldnt have been a gas leak were it not for 
the repair.
Mr Bs bill for the gas used between 14 April 2019 and 3 July 2019, shows he used around 
170 units of gas. Mr Bs smart meter readings for April 2020  a similar time of year to when 
the leak happened - show he used around 170 units over a shorter period of one month 
when outside temperatures are likely to have been similar. For the cost of the leaked gas to 
be in line with Mr Bs estimate, Id expect his gas usage to have been higher on the bill 
covering the period when the leak happened, but it isnt. So I dont think the cost of the 
leaked gas is as high as Mr B estimates. Ive looked at the average daily cost of Mr Bs gas from around the time of the leak. Gas was 
leaking from the pipe connecting to the boiler for around a day. British Gas estimates Mr Bs 
daily average gas usage at the time of the leak to be £3.61 based on his bills from the 
middle of February 2019 to the beginning of July 2019. So, I think £3.61 is more realistic 
estimate of the cost of the leaked gas. But because Id have expected British Gas to have 
identified the leaked gas as a cost to Mr B sooner and to have offered Mr B compensation 
for it, I think its fair to round the compensation for the leaked gas to £5. 
British Gas accepted my decision and confirmed that it had nothing further to add to what it 
had already provided. It said it was disappointed that Mr Bs lost gas was included in my 
provisional decision because Mr Bs complaint was solely about its engineers workmanship. 
It felt that a ruling was made in relation to lost gas, which was something that wasnt 
requested, discussed or investigated. 
But the loss of the gas was caused by the engineers workmanship and is an additional loss 
to Mr B directly stemming from his complaint about the engineers workmanship. British Gas 
didnt identify the lost gas as a cost to Mr B when it investigated his complaint, which is what 
Id have expected it to do. I asked both British Gas and Mr B for their views on the cost of the 
lost gas and considered both responses in my provisional decision. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for the cost of the lost gas to be included in my provisional decision. And, British 
Gas have been provided the opportunity to comment on my provisional finding about the gas 
and provide any further evidence by way of its response to my provisional decision. 
Mr B did not respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B didnt provide a response to my provisional decision, but Ive considered British Gas 
response. Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings for the reasons I gave in that decision.
I have decided uphold Mr Bs complaint and require British Gas to take action to put things 
right for Mr B.  
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mr B £5 for the cost of the leaked gas and pay the £50 compensation 
it has already offered to Mr B if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £5.00 for the 
cost of the leaked gas and to pay the £50.00 compensation it has already offered to Mr B if it 
hasnt already done so. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman