DRN-2914990
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft dealt with and settled a 
claim she made after her belongings were damaged during a property move.
 What happened
On 24 November 2020, Mrs L moved house. She instructed a removal company to assist 
her with her move. Ill refer to the removal company as H within this decision. H held a 
removers block insurance policy, which meant that Mrs Ls belongings were insured while in 
transit. This insurance is underwritten by AXA.
After Mrs Ls home move had been completed, she discovered that her headboard and clock 
had been damaged by H. So, she contacted AXA to claim for damage to these items. She 
stated that the damage had been caused when the items in question fell out of the back of 
Hs removal van during the unloading process. 
Mrs L said the headboard was 18 years old, had been in excellent condition and made on a 
bespoke basis to match other items of furniture. She stated that the clock dated back to the 
1800s and was a family heirloom of significant sentimental value. 
AXA initially didnt consider Mrs Ls claim for the damage to her clock as it said she hadnt 
reported this damage within seven days of the delivery of the goods as the policy required. 
But it subsequently agreed to settle this claim as it accepted that the Covid-19 pandemic had 
restricted Mrs Ls ability to unpack her belongings as quickly as shed have liked. It offered 
Mrs L £50 for the clock after looking at a photograph of the damage to it.
When AXA considered Mrs Ls headboard claim it researched the cost of similar second-
hand items and said the average online value was £30. So, it thought £40 was a fair and 
reasonable value to offer Mrs L for her damaged headboard in the circumstances.
Being dissatisfied with how AXA was proposing to settle her claim, Mrs L brought a claim to 
our service, which was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that Mrs Ls 
claim had been fairly dealt with by AXA. And they didnt think that it needed to do anything 
further because it had made a fair offer in relation to the damaged items. But Mrs L didnt 
agree with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account everything that AXA and Mrs L have told our service, Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why I think AXA acted fairly when it 
offered to settle Mrs Ls claim.
But before I do, Id like to say that I recognise how upsetting it must have been for Mrs L to 
discover that a number of her items had been damaged during her house move. I can 
understand how that must have exacerbated the stress and anxiety that a house move 
inevitably brings with it.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Ls headboard and clock were damaged during the house move 
and that these items are covered by Hs block policy of insurance. I can see that the clock, in 
particular, is of considerable sentimental value to Mrs L and her family. But the issue here is 
whether AXA has fairly settled this claim. And I think it has.
The policy that covers Mrs Ls belongings while in transit is an indemnity policy. It doesnt 
provide cover on a new for old basis. So, Mrs Ls belongings are insured for the actual value 
of any items damaged or lost at the date the damage or loss occurs.
This policy of insurance allows AXA to settle this claim in a number of ways. The terms and 
conditions allow AXA to either replace or repair an item or make a money payment instead 
taking into account the age, quality, degree of use and consequent market value of the 
item in question. Its up to AXA which method of settlement it chooses. But it will have met its 
contractual obligations under the policy if it either replaces, repairs or makes a market value 
offer for a damaged or lost item.
Its clear that Mrs L is unhappy with the settlement figure shes been offered by AXA to cover 
the damage to both her headboard and clock. Ive therefore thought carefully about whether 
AXA fairly calculated the settlement value of Mrs Ls claim in relation to each item that was 
damaged. 
Headboard
I can see that, when Mrs L reported her claim to AXA, she indicated that the value of her 
headboard was around £300. I can therefore understand why she may have expected a 
higher settlement sum from AXA. But, as Ive already explained, the policy under which the 
headboard is insured doesnt provide new for old cover. So, AXA is entitled to determine the 
market value of the headboard and make an offer on that basis.
Here, Ive seen evidence that AXA undertook online research to assess the value of the 
damaged headboard. Having compared the cost of 10 similar second-hand headboards, it 
concluded that the average value of a second-hand headboard was £30. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the research AXA undertook was sufficient to enable it to determine a 
market value for the headboard.
While the average value of a second-hand headboard was £30, I can see that AXA offered 
to pay Mrs L £40 to cash settle this claim. As it offered to pay more than the average online 
value, I cant fairly conclude that AXA acted unreasonably in offering that settlement sum.
AXA has explained that, in this set of circumstances, it wasnt economical to repair the 
headboard. I dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion for AXA to reach given the 
market value for a second-hand headboard. And, in cash settling Mrs Ls claim for the 
damaged headboard as an alternative, AXA has acted in line with the terms of the policy. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to do anything further in relation to this claim.
Clock
I understand that AXA initially declined to settle Mrs Ls claim for damage to her clock on the 
basis that she didnt report a claim within the time limit stipulated in the policy terms and 
conditions. Mrs L explained the reason why she wasnt able to comply with that deadline and 
I can see that, in offering to settle this claim, AXA has accepted what she said. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs L hasnt been caused prejudice as a result of not notifying AXA of a claim 
within the seven days outlined in the policy.
I can see that Mrs L asked AXA to pay £100 for her clock to be repaired. Ive seen 
photographs showing the damage this item sustained. But I havent seen any evidence that 
identifies the specifics of the clock, substantiates its value or shows the value of a repair. 
Without this information, I think it would be extremely difficult for AXA to determine the cost 
of a repair or replacement item. I cant fairly conclude that AXA ought to have undertaken 
more research on this item. And Im not persuaded that the £50 AXA offered Mrs L was 
unreasonable in all the circumstances.
While Mrs L believes that her damaged items are worth around £400, for the reasons 
outlined, Im satisfied that AXA has offered a fair and reasonable cash settlement here. 
Theres nothing to persuade me that AXA has treated Mrs L unfairly or unreasonably. Its 
agreed to settle her claim in line with the policy terms. And Im not persuaded there are any 
grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require AXA to change its original settlement offer 
made to Mrs L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman