DRN-3689545
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc has charged it a monthly fee that it 
didnt agree to.
What happened
G has a merchant processing agreement with Barclays. It says that it has been charged a 
data security management fee of £4.80 plus VAT per month that it didnt agree to or need. It 
says its been told both that this was for not complying with Payment Card Industry Data 
Security Standards (PCI-DSS) and then that this was a service to help it achieve 
compliance. But G says that it is compliant and handles its own process. It wants these fees 
refunded and compensation of £150 for inconvenience.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that achieving PCI-DSS compliance was a 
mandatory part of Gs agreement. And that the merchant agreement specified the charge. It 
wasnt able to resolve what the third party who sold the agreement to G might have said 
about this agreement and charges and referred that aspect of the complaint to it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. G had signed a merchant 
services agreement on 7 August 2019. This set out the charges applicable. G had agreed to 
be bound by the agreement and was required to be PCI-DSS compliant. Barclays was 
applying charges in line with this. She was considering a complaint about what Barclays had 
done and she didnt think it had made a mistake. 
G didnt agree and wanted to see a copy of the documents wed relied upon in making our 
assessment. The investigator now dealing with the case provided these to G and specifically 
referred G to the following part of the agreement:
In particular, you agree that:
 You have read, understood and agree to be bound by Merchant Application Form;
 The details about you and your business shown in This Merchant Application Form are 
correct;
 You have read and understood the Charges and Fees and agree to pay the Charges and 
Fees set out in the Merchant Application Form in respect of the services we provide to 
you;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that G, like all merchants, is expected to achieve PCI-DSS compliance 
and which is an industry standard to help protect payment card information. I understand the 
potential for confusion here as Barclays when asked about this charge had also referred to 
fees relating to non-compliance. This data security management fee is about G achieving 
compliance. Barclays has said of this particular charge that:
BPS Data Security Manager (DSM) service is an online portal which enables customers 
follow a step-by step process to self-assess and attest their compliance with PCI DSS every 
12 months. DSM will provide the tools, information and support needed to aid a customer 
with their responsibilities to keep customers data safe.
I appreciate that G says it doesnt need this service. I need to review whether I think 
Barclays has a basis to apply this charge. It is set out in the agreement and is different to a 
separate charge say of £25 a month that would apply if G didnt achieve compliance. I dont 
see that Barclays has been acting outside the terms of the signed agreement in applying this 
charge.
I know the director of G will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a basis to require 
Barclays to take any further action about this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman