DRN-1499496
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a further advance 
on their mortgage in 1998. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy 
was in Mr O's sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs O 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is contradictory (as 
some of it is here) I've made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. So on what I 
think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold 
PPI at the time.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs O had to agree to take it out. 
They say they felt pressured to take it, they were led to think it would help their chances 
of getting the advance and that it was a condition of the borrowing. The bank disputes this.
I cant know what was said in the meeting, but I have been able to look at the paperwork 
from the sale. Mr O completed and signed a separate application form for the PPI, 
answering a number of eligibility questions. There was nothing on that form that I think could 
reasonably have led them to believe it was mandatory. Their quote for further advance set 
out the cost of the PPI separately, indicating it was a separate product. 
I have thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs O have told us about the sale, and how 
they felt. And whilst I dont doubt these are their honest recollections of the meeting, I have 
to take into account that it was over 20 years ago and this might affect what they now 
remember. Overall, given the balance of the evidence, I think it's most likely Halifax made 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs O agreed to take it out for Mr O.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr O so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. I have 
seen a copy of Mr O's employment contract that shows he was entitled to one month's sick pay, anything further was discretional. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 12 months. Mr O said he had savings worth at least six months salary 
but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.  Mr and Mrs O were increasing the 
sum they had borrowed and it was over a long period, secured on their home. So the effects 
of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs O if Mr O was sick, had an accident or lost his job.   
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs O all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on their quote. And the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. But I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind 
about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs O have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman