DRN-3806543
The complaint
A company which Ill call N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated 
them unfairly when they switched their current account and didnt receive the expected 
incentive payment.
The complaint is brought on Ns behalf by one of their directors, Mrs S.
What happened
N told us:
They had an account with RBS but switched to another lender after being offered 
£1,250 as an incentive to move banks through the Business Banking Switch Scheme 
(BBS). 
They were told that they would receive the incentive payment four months after the 
switch had taken place, but it wasnt received.
RBS said that they hadnt received the incentive as they hadnt moved their main 
account, which isnt true. This is the account where their direct debits were paid from, 
any other accounts they held were savings accounts. 
RBS then said the marketing material issued was relating to another account held by 
the company, but this wasnt mentioned anywhere. They also said that RBS had 
been aware of their account involved in the switch and confirmed by letter that theyd 
receive the incentive if the switch took place prior to 30 Jun 2021.
Theyd been misled by RBS, caused inconvenience, and now had to pay an account 
fee with the new lender when their previous account with RBS was free. 
RBS told us:
N would have received notification of the account which had been identified as the 
switching account in the marketing communication. The information to explain what 
constituted the required switching account was also confirmed within its frequently 
asked questions (FAQs) 
N didnt receive the incentive as they didnt switch the primary account which was 
quoted in the marketing material. 
It acknowledged it hadnt responded to Ns enquires quick enough and its customer 
service had been below the level expected, so it had apologised and paid £150 for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that the BBS required 
Ns primary account to be switched, and although N had given the account number which 
had been opened first, this wasnt their primary one. The investigator also said that based on 
the evidence shed seen, she thought it was likely the correspondence from RBS would have 
contained the account number that needed to be switched. She also acknowledged that 
RBSs customer service could have been better, but she thought its payment of £150 
compensation was enough to put things right. 
N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. Theres not much more that I can add to what 
the investigator has already said. N says that there wasnt an account number on the 
incentive switch paperwork from RBS, so they feel it was unfair they werent paid the 
incentive. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Although RBS hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of the exact letters that N was sent, it has provided a generic copy of the information 
that would have been sent in the marketing correspondence. This shows that N would have 
needed to enter the sort code and account number which RBS stated was the switching 
account to be able to access the incentive. Ive also seen that under the BBS requirements, 
an account number would have needed to be provided to N on the documentation to show it 
was eligible. 
N says they only had one current account with RBS and that was the account number they 
provided. They also believe that if theyd entered the wrong number this should have been 
flagged by the bank and said that they asked RBS whether or not they needed to move their 
other accounts to benefit from the incentive. However, RBS has told us that there wasnt a 
restriction on the account number used for the next stage of the switching process after the 
customer had applied using the initial details provided for the incentive. This was reliant on 
the customer inputting the account information they wanted to switch, and there was no way 
for it to reject the application based on the account information input by the customer - as the 
bank wouldnt have known if this had been done in error as the service provided is the same 
for all switching requests. 
I acknowledge that N says the account they switched was their main account, and therefore 
this should have been the one used by the bank. However, the scheme had criteria that 
needed to be met for an account to be eligible. Ive looked at the FAQs provided under the 
scheme and I think these were clear about what constituted as the qualifying primary 
account i.e. the one that had received 50% of the credit transactions in the last 12 months. 
The bank has provided statements showing the transactions through Ns accounts and 
based on what Ive seen I dont think the account switch requested by N met the scheme 
criteria. 
I also recognise that N says it asked RBS if it needed to switch all its accounts. However, I 
think its worth noting that the primary switch account detailed in the incentive wasnt a 
savings account, but another current account. And N didnt need to switch all its accounts to 
benefit from the incentive  only the one which met scheme requirements. So I cant 
reasonably say RBS treated N unfairly here.   
Its clear that N was caused inconvenience by RBSs actions when they tried to discuss the 
incentive and were either unable to get the information they wanted or were unable to speak 
to the bank over the phone. However, I can see that RBS has apologised for the issues N 
experienced and paid them £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. So I think the 
bank has done enough to put things right and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jenny LomaxOmbudsman