DRN-2710202
The complaint
Mr A complains  using a claims management company  that a savings product sold to him 
by Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited in 1987 was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr A held the savings product from 1987 to 1993. The policy included life cover, which at the 
time meant he didnt have to pay income tax or capital gains tax on the money he got back. 
Mr As complaint is that the policy wasnt suitable for him at the time. His representative has 
pointed to Mr A being young and having no dependents back then. Theyve also talked 
about other policies that could have given Mr A a better return over the period, or which 
could have been more flexible for him as his life changed. 
Sanlam didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They noted the time that had passed, and the lack of 
regulation at the time, meant they had little to show what was discussed with Mr A when he 
took out the plan. And they felt Mr As circumstances  getting married shortly after the 
policy began  supported having life cover included with the policy. 
Our investigator agreed with Sanlam, saying she felt the policy hadnt been mis-sold to Mr A. 
His representative disagreed. They said the commission charged on the savings plan meant 
Sanlam sold it inappropriately. And they named a 10-year savings plan that had lower costs, 
which they felt Mr A could have had for the same premium. 
They felt this meant the complaint should be upheld, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the case has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr As representatives may have had other complaints upheld, Ive 
decided that wouldnt be the right outcome here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint, 
mainly because the sale took place in 1987.
That was before the Financial Services Act came into force. In 1987, people selling plans 
like Mr As didnt need to keep detailed records, or even consider suitability in the way they 
did later. They just needed to avoid saying something that wasnt correct, and advise with 
reasonable skill and care. 
Here, Sanlam sold Mr A a savings plan that included life cover. Any advice to have that 
would reasonably match up with a customer looking to increase their wealth. From whats 
been said of Mr As circumstances, hed seem to match up with that sort of advice. 
I note Mr As representative feels a 10-year plan would have been more suitable for Mr A. 
But as I say  suitability isnt a factor that had to be considered in detail in 1987. And in any 
case, Mr A only appears to have saved for six years here  1987 to 1993  suggesting a 
10-year plan might not have been any better for him. 
Ive not seen any details about the commission Sanlam charged for their services in 1987. 
But there werent rules against them doing that back then. Mr As representatives may feel 
that drove Sanlams representative to sell him the plan over other more suitable ones. But 
theres nothing here that proves that. 
Much time has passed since Mr As plan was sold, and since it ended. And in 1987, there 
werent the rules there are now about businesses keeping records of their decision making 
and advice when selling these sorts of products. So I dont find it too odd that theres little 
record of the what was discussed at the time. 
Taking all the details Ive seen into account, I cant see Mr As been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably. Sanlam appear to have sold him this product with reasonable skill and care, 
and without mis-stating any of its details to him. Theyve met the requirements of the time. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman