DRN-2903168
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions 
made from his account. 
What happened
On the 26 and 27 August 2020 two cash withdrawals were carried out from Mr Gs NatWest 
account totalling £400. 
Mr G explained at the time of the disputed transactions he was away from his home address 
and he didnt carry out these two cash withdrawals. He explained that hed left his debit card 
at his home address in a secure location  where he lives alone  and he hasnt shared his 
card or PIN with anyone. 
NatWest looked into the disputed transactions but didnt uphold his complaint. In response 
they said that there was no evidence of a PIN compromise, and they thought it was more 
likely than not Mr G carried out the disputed transactions. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they 
thought that there was no evidence of a PIN compromise and they questioned why the card 
would be returned to Mr G after the fraud. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response he said:
Why hasnt NatWest considered that the last transactions carried out were online 
ones? Why would he carry out the disputed withdrawals?
Isnt it odd that there was an incorrect PIN entry before the first withdrawal?
He doesnt understand why NatWest are questioning this incorrect PIN entry, as 
everyone at some point has incorrectly entered their PIN. 
Hes not requested a new PIN or disclosed his PIN to anyone.
The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) support his position  as he hasnt 
consented to the withdrawals.
He explained that a third party wouldnt be able to access his card or PIN  as they 
were kept in secure locations.
NatWest is in breach of their responsibilities to show reasonable skill and care as it 
allowed two withdrawals.
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr G and NatWest have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. But, Id like to assure Mr G that Ive read the full file including his comments 
and evidence. 
Generally, NatWest are entitled to hold Mr G liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say that NatWest need to provide evidence that 
Mr Gs genuine security details were used to authenticate the disputed transactions. Ive 
seen evidence from NatWest that Mr Gs genuine card details were used and that the 
disputed withdrawals were authenticated by Chip and PIN.  
However, this isnt enough for NatWest to hold Mr G liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr G consented to the 
transactions being made. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to 
conclude that Mr G authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would need access to Mr Gs card 
and PIN. However, theres no plausible explanation for how the fraudster gained 
access to them. At the time of the disputed withdrawals Mr Gs explained his debit 
card was at the home address and he was away from this location. Mr G lives alone 
and he advised that nobody else had access to his home address so I cant see how 
a fraudster gained access to Mr Gs debit card. 
Considering Mr Gs debit card was kept at his home address it seems surprising that 
a fraudster would take the risk of breaking into his home address and also return it at 
a later point. 
Mr Gs explained that he doesnt know how someone gained access to his PIN  
advising that hes not shared this with anyone. And there was no possibility of a PIN 
compromise as Mr Gs not shared his security details with anyone. 
Mr Gs explained that he wasnt in the area where the disputed withdrawals were 
carried out at the time. However, hes not provided any evidence to show this is the 
case. 
Mr G responded to our investigators view with a number of comments. Some of these points 
Ive addressed above, and Ill consider his additional points below. 
Incorrect PIN entry:
Mr Gs highlighted that there was an incorrect PIN entry prior to the first disputed withdrawal. 
Its true, that prior to the first withdrawal there was an incorrect PIN entry, and usually in this 
circumstance Id regard that as an indication a third party may have overseen a victims PIN 
when the customer was carrying out a genuine transaction. However, I cant see how this 
can be the explanation in Mr Gs case  I say this because Mr G hadnt carried out any 
genuine Chip and PIN transactions for a long time prior to the fraud. 
NatWest havent shown reasonable skill and care:
Mr Gs right in his suggestion that NatWest have a responsibility to protect their customers 
from financial crime, and theyre required to do this by monitoring customers accounts for unusual transactions or activity. Im considered Mr Gs argument, but Im afraid I dont think 
NatWest have failed in their responsibilities here. I say this, as although for Mr G the 
transactions appear unusual  considering hes not carried out ATM withdrawals using his 
debit card  in my opinion they arent sufficiently unusual for me to conclude they should 
have triggered NatWests fraud detection system. Part of the reason I say this is, as Ive 
already explained, to carry out the transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Gs card and PIN  and although the first PIN entry was incorrect  all the security details 
were entered correctly after. And I wouldnt expect this to cause any alerts for NatWest.
I understand this will disappoint Mr G but for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied 
that he likely authorised the disputed withdrawals. And it follows NatWest are entitled to hold 
him liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is dont upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman