DRN-1808833
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Skipton Building Society unfairly closed her Lifetime Individual Savings 
Account (LISA). 
What happened
Mrs S opened a LISA account online with Skipton in April 2018 and paid £5 into her account. 
In September 2019, Mrs S paid a further £2,000 into her account. Mrs S expected to receive 
a 25% bonus from the government. But she says when she logged on to her online account 
in October 2019 she found that Skipton had closed her account. 
Mrs S says when she contacted Skipton, she was informed that her details with Skipton 
didnt match her details with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) but it wouldnt say what 
information was incorrect. 
Mrs S is unhappy that Skipton closed her account without informing her. She says she didnt 
receive any letters or emails from Skipton and as such she wasnt given an opportunity to fix 
the incorrect information. Mrs S complains that as a result she has lost out on the 25% 
government bonus. Mrs S says she also didnt receive the cheque with her returned funds 
and had to arrange a bank transfer. All of this has caused her stress. 
Skipton said it wrote to Mrs S the day after she opened her LISA account explaining that it 
had been unsuccessful in registering her account due to a mismatch of information with 
HMRC. It asked Mrs S to up date her details. Skipton said without registering Mrs S account 
with HMRC, she wouldnt qualify for the 25% bonus. 
Skipton said it emailed and wrote to Mrs S again in July 2019 and then again wrote to her in 
September 2019 informing her that her account would be closed if her details were not 
updated with either Skipton or HMRC. As the details were not matching, it proceeded to 
close Mrs S account in October 2019 and if Mrs S wanted to obtain the government bonus 
now shed need to open a new account. It says it wrote to Mrs S and emailed her using the 
information she provided when opening her account online.
Mrs S was unhappy with Skiptons response, so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought Skipton 
contacted Mrs S on multiple occasions and the letters and emails were correctly addressed. 
They also thought Mrs S had access to secure messages on her online account which 
wouldve notified Mrs S about this issue. They said the annual statements which were 
available online and were also sent to her wouldve shown that no bonus had been applied 
to her account. Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as the investigator - Ill explain why.
The terms of Mrs S LISA provided that if HMRC rejects an application for a bonus payment 
it will set out its reasons and we will inform you within 14 days of notification from HMRC. 
Mrs S opened her LISA online on 5 April 2018. Skipton sent the declaration confirming the 
details she provided online the same day via post. It set out within the letter if any of the 
details below are incorrect, please notify us within 30 days of the date of this declaration. 
This is in accordance with HM Revenue & Customs requirements.
Skipton then sent the details Mrs S provided to HMRC to confirm acceptance of the 
application however it came back with an information mismatch. Skipton said it is not made 
aware of what information is incorrect so it can only offer some possibilities as to what may 
be the cause. It is Mrs S responsibility to check her details with it and HMRC to identify the 
discrepancy. 
Skipton wrote to Mrs S on 6 April 2018 the day after she opened her account online. The 
letter was sent to the address she provided when she opened her account. The letter clearly 
sets out that Skipton had been unable to register her account so it could not collect the 
bonus, it says that the information it holds doesnt match the information HMRC has, it gives 
a possible example of what may be the cause and it also sets out how Mrs S can rectify the 
issue. 
Skipton wrote to Mrs S again in July 2019 setting out that issue and also stated if we dont 
hear from you within the next 21 days well presume you no longer want to continue to invest 
in your Online Lifetime ISA and well close your account. A cheque for your closing balance 
will be forwarded to you. Skipton wrote to Mrs S again in September 2019 with the same 
information but this time it set out that if it didnt hear from her within seven days itd close 
her account. 
Skipton closed Mrs S LISA at the start of October 2019 and wrote to her enclosing a cheque 
returning her funds. Mrs S says she didnt receive the cheque and eventually Skipton agreed 
to transfer the money via bank transfer. Mrs S is unhappy with the delay in receiving the 
funds into her account and whilst I think this couldve been done sooner, Skipton has 
confirmed it paid interest until the date the payment was made, so Im satisfied Mrs S hasnt 
lost out. 
Mrs S says she didnt receive any notifications about the failure to register her account with 
HMRC. Skipton sent the letter to the address it has on file for her - its the same address 
shes given this service. It also sent emails to Mrs S using the address it had on file for her. 
So on balance, I think its more likely than not that the letters and emails were sent and that 
Mrs S was given enough time to update her details. She was also given enough notice that 
her account would close otherwise. 
In any event I can see Mrs S reset her online account password in September 2019 prior to 
her account closing in October 2019. This means Mrs S had access to her online account 
which wouldve notified her of the issue Skipton was having in registering her account under 
the secure messages section. Mrs S was also sent an annual statement which was also 
available to view online  this wouldve shown that no bonus was applied to her account. 
Overall Im satisfied that Skipton made all reasonable attempts to contact Mrs S about the 
issue, and so I dont think Skipton has treated her unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman