DRN-1916595
The complaint
Mr A complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to turn down his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr A is a member of his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the 
scheme is to provide an income in the event that an insured cant work in their own 
occupation, or a suited occupation, because of injury or illness. The scheme has a deferred 
period of 26 weeks.
In November 2017, Mr A had an accident whilst at work and injured his right knee. In April 
2018, he stopped work. A claim was submitted to Aviva, but it turned this down because it 
thought Mr A could still do some occupations to which he was suited. Unhappy with this, Mr 
A brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the medical 
evidence didnt support that Mr A was incapacitated, as required by the policy terms, for a 
claim to be paid. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay benefit in the event of incapacity. The policy defines this as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role 
and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of education, training or 
experience, as a result of their illness or injury.
Therefore, for me to require Aviva to pay the claim, Mr A must show that his injury prevented 
him from carrying out both his previous role and a role to which hes suited between April  
October 2018 (the deferred period), and beyond. 
Mr As role with his employer was a manual one. However, he explained to Aviva that his 
previous employment history involved two customer service roles  one in a shop, and the 
other in a restaurant. His did a variety of tasks in both those roles, including working on the 
tills. 
Mr As GP stated on the claim form that Mr A had a right knee injury with traumatic 
degeneration. They said Mr A had been referred to orthopaedics in January 2018, and for 
physio in August 2018. They also confirmed that an MRI scan and X-ray had been carried 
out. 
Ive looked at Mr As GP records during the deferred period. These show that he first visited 
his GP in November 2017, a few days after the injury. The GP sent him for an X-ray, but this 
showed no abnormality. A few months later, Mr A was still reporting pain to his knee, and so 
his GP referred him to orthopaedics. The GP signed Mr A off work from 1 March 2018 as he 
was reporting that his knee was still painful. 
Later in March 2018, Mr A was seen in the musculoskeletal clinic and an MRI scan was 
arranged. Mr A was then seen in the orthopaedic clinic in May 2018 and was referred for 
physio. 
In June 2018, Mr A told his GP that because he couldnt bear weight on the right knee, that 
had put more pressure on his left knee, which meant he was experiencing pain in both 
knees. Mr A advised his GP that he struggled to walk at times due to the pain. The GP noted 
that the orthopaedic clinic hadnt seen any swelling and, after carrying out their own 
examination, also said there were no joint swellings to either knee or tenderness. Mr A also 
explained that his job involved standing for long hours and shifting heavy weights. The GP 
prescribed Mr A a strong painkiller.
Then in September 2018, Mr A still felt he wasnt ready to go back to work, and again told 
his GP that his role involved standing for long hours. He was still having physio at that time. 
Ive also looked at the information provided by Mr As specialists during the deferred period. 
In March 2018, Dr S (consultant physiotherapist & registered osteopath) noted that Mr As 
job involved heavy lifting and manoeuvring. He said Mr A reported that his knee occasionally 
had mild swelling, but didnt lock or give way. And that he reported clicking when he walked 
and negotiating stairs. Dr S said the clinical examination was relatively unremarkable, but 
there was medial joint pain at end-range extension with overpressure and tenderness over 
the medical femoral condyle. He said hed requested an MRI and would review the results in 
a few weeks.
The MRI then took place. This showed there was early degenerative change to the medial 
tibiofemoral compartment, which may have a traumatic aetiology (cause).  
In April 2018, Dr S referred Mr A to orthopaedics. In his referral letter, he said that Mr A had 
persistent right knee pain following the injury at work in November 2017, and that he was 
struggling at work if he had to stand for longer than 30 minutes. Dr S said he wanted a more 
expert review to take place, given Mr As ongoing symptoms, functional limitations and lack 
of response to conservative management. 
In August 2018, Mr K (consultant hip and knee surgeon) said that on examination, Mr A had 
pain over the medical compartment, and that he had full range of movement. 
Based on the medical evidence between April and October 2018, its apparent that Mr A was 
experiencing recurrent knee pain as a result of his injury in 2017. Investigations showed that 
there were degenerative changes to his knee, which were thought to be caused by an injury. 
It appears to have been accepted by Mr As medical practitioners that he was experiencing 
knee pain as a result, and I note Dr S stated that Mr A struggled to stand for longer than 30 
minutes when at work. 
Given that Mr As previous role with his employer was a manual one and involved standing 
and moving heavy items, I think theres enough evidence to support that he couldnt do that 
role during the deferred period. However, Mr A must also show that he couldnt do other 
roles to which hes suited. Aviva has suggested some roles that it thinks Mr A could have done during the deferred 
period. It thought he could work in a shop (specifically the same type of shop where Mr A 
used to work), and also in a packing role on a production line packing light goods. 
Given Mr As employment history, I think Avivas suggestion that Mr A could have worked in 
a shop was reasonable. The particular type of shop it has suggested likely wouldnt involve 
standing for long periods, which Mr A couldnt do. I think Avivas suggestion that Mr A could 
carry out a packing role on a production line during the deferred period was also reasonable, 
so long as this was a role where he could sit down. I believe such roles do exist. 
Overall, as Im satisfied Aviva has suggested some roles that Mr A could have likely done 
(based on his education, training or experience) during the deferred period, it follows that it 
was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr A didnt meet the definition of incapacity and 
turn down the claim.
Mr A has provided this service with an occupational therapists report from May 2020. This 
said that Mr A was temporarily unfit for work because of stomach pain he had started 
experiencing in the previous six months, and his musculoskeletal difficulties (knee pain, and 
back pain that hed later developed), It was recommended that he return to work on a 
phased basis in July 2020. The therapist made various observations about what they 
thought Mr A was physically capable of, which included standing, walking, sitting, reaching at 
waist height and above etc. 
Whilst I appreciate the therapist concluded that Mr A couldnt work in May 2020, this was a 
significant length of time after the deferred period had ended. Its also the case that Mr As 
health had changed since the end of the deferred period, as he was experiencing stomach 
pain and back pain, neither of which he had experienced during the deferred period. 
As Ive said, for the claim to be payable, Mr A needed to show that he couldnt work during 
the deferred period in his previous role or a suited role because of his injury. During that 
period, Mr A was only signed off by his GP because of knee pain. And as Ive explained, I 
think Aviva has suggested some suitable roles that Mr A could have likely done, despite his 
knee pain.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman