DRN-4094577
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to reply to a subject 
access request he made, and didnt answer his questions about how staff were paid for 
advice he received. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr C was advised by Halifax to invest £7,000 into a stocks and shares ISA. In March 
2021 he called Halifax for a valuation and was unhappy with the fact the ISA was only worth 
around £5,000 more, despite having invested for 14 years. He raised a complaint about the 
performance of the ISA as well as a complaint about the advice he was given to invest.
He brought both complaints to our service and they were considered separately. An 
ombudsman at our service considered the performance complaint, and didnt uphold it  for 
clarity I will not be commenting further on that decision. 
I considered the complaint about the advice, and on 26 August 2022 found it was not within 
our jurisdiction, as it had been brought too late for our service to consider it. 
In August 2022 Mr C raised a complaint about a data subject access request (DSAR) he 
made on 18 January 2022, as Halifax hadnt replied to it. In September 2022 Halifax sent 
him the requested information and apologised for not responding sooner, and paid Mr C £75 
for the delay. Mr C remained unhappy and asked our service to look into the complaint 
because:
The information in the DSAR had been redacted
It didnt contain any evidence of communication between the complaint handler who 
had dealt with his complaint about the advice he was given, and the adviser who had 
given him that advice.
Halifax had refused to answer other questions set out in his letter of 18 January 2022 
about how the adviser had been renumerated for the advice he was given, and her 
qualifications.
An investigator at our service looked into his complaint and found we couldnt look into the 
last complaint point. She explained this was because it related to his complaint about the 
advice he was given, which our service had found we couldnt look at. The investigator 
explained that complaint handling is only something we can look at, if we can also look at the 
financial activity, like advice to invest, alongside it. As we had found we couldnt look at the 
complaint about the advice, she said we couldnt look at the complaint about the way 
questions were answered during that complaint.
Similarly, the investigator explained we can only look at complaints about DSARs if they are 
related to a financial activity that we cover. Here, because Halifax safeguarded Mr Cs 
investments and we could look at a complaint about the performance of the investments, she 
felt that the DSAR was sufficiently linked to that financial activity for us to consider how 
Halifax answered the DSAR. The investigator found that the amount offered by Halifax was 
fair for the delay in sending Mr C the DSAR and that the redaction of the documents was 
reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree and felt we should be able to look into both issues. Regarding the 
information about the adviser, Mr C responded with comments about the sale of the 
investments and why he felt the answers hed been given supported his arguments about 
the sale of the investment. In relation to the DSAR, he remained of the opinion that the level 
of redaction was unreasonable. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome given by the investigator for the same reasons. 
Ive considered the two issues separately for clarity. 
The DSAR
Having reviewed the documents Mr C was sent, I can see the following information was 
redacted:
Created by task fields 
Names in email signatures
Email addresses
Salutations, including names
Signatories of letters
Call handler names
I dont think its unreasonable that Halifax redacted this information, as the documents are 
still legible and comprehensible without it. For instance, if needed the emails can be referred 
to by the date and time they were sent, even if Mr C doesnt know who the sender and 
recipient were. 
A DSAR only entitles Mr C to information about himself, and Im satisfied that its reasonable 
for Halifax to redact the names of the members of staff who have dealt with his complaints. I 
understand Mr C particularly wanted to know what the adviser he spoke to in 2007 had said 
regarding his complaint. Halifax has confirmed that she wasnt contacted as she doesnt 
work for them anymore. This is not uncommon in my experience - original advisers arent 
often contacted, particularly where advice was given so long ago. This is because its usually 
unlikely that the adviser would have any recollection of the advice, above and beyond the 
paperwork completed at the time. So, though I know Mr C disputes this, Im satisfied there 
isnt any further correspondence from or to the adviser for Halifax to send him. 
Ive considered the impact Halifaxs delay in sending the information has had on Mr C. I can 
see that in November 2021 Halifax had sent Mr C information following his first DSAR, 
consisting of around 200 pages of documents. So, when he requested the further 
correspondence in January 2022, there was only a few more pages of information to send 
him. The content of those documents was simply internal emails between November 2021 
and January 2022 that are administrative in nature, primarily discussing who at Halifax 
should deal with Mr Cs letters. None of that information would have given Mr C further information to assist with either of his 
complaints about performance or advice. So, although the delay itself was unacceptable, the 
overall impact was relatively minimal. As a result, I find that the £75 offered by Halifax is fair 
and reasonable to acknowledge the delay and inconvenience caused.  
The questions about the advisers renumeration and qualifications
I note that in some of his correspondence, Mr C has spoken about the questions he asked 
about the advisers renumeration and qualifications as part of the DSAR. Because these 
questions arent about his data, its not information that would be included in a DSAR. The 
sorts of questions hes asked are commonly asked of public bodies as a freedom of 
information request, rather than a DSAR. However, Im satisfied that Halifax is not a public 
body and so wouldnt be required to answer freedom of information requests. Thats why 
weve treated this complaint point differently to his DSAR complaint, above. 
Having considered this complaint point, Im satisfied that it relates to the previous complaint 
Mr C made about the advice he was given and so we dont have the power to look into it. In 
the decision I issued in August 2022 about the advice Mr C was given, I explained that the 
complaint was out of jurisdiction because, in summary:
Halifax had sent him two final response letters, dated 17 March 2021 and 19 
November 2021 explaining that he had six months from the date of each letter to 
refer his concerns to our service. 
Mr C didnt contact our service until 14 June 2022, and so his complaint was brought 
outside of the time limits allowed. 
Though there was continued correspondence after 19 November 2021, including the 
18 January 2022 letter at the heart of Mr Cs current complaint, I wasnt persuaded 
that it extended the time frame Mr C had to refer his complaint to us.  
The reason Mr C asked his questions in January 2022 was because he wanted to 
understand how the adviser was incentivised to sell the investment to him. He felt that 
incentives in any form would have made it more likely for the adviser to sell him something 
unsuitable. 
I note that on 7 December 2021 Halifax had already said they wouldnt give more information 
about adviser renumeration. In their letter of 29 April 2022, Halifax again said they wouldnt 
enter into any further discussion about the adviser or the advice. 
If we were to give Mr C our view on the amount of information he was given at the sale about 
the advisers pay and whether the type or amount of pay incentivised her to mis-sell the 
investment, then wed be providing our opinion on the advice he was given. This is because 
the questions go to the same complaint point  whether or not the investment had been mis-
sold. 
I appreciate that from Mr Cs perspective, his complaint about Halifax not replying to his 
questions is separate from his complaint about the advice itself. However, at the heart of his 
complaint about the lack of answers, is the complaint about the advice  its all about the 
same issue and so I think it forms part of the original complaint he brought to us about the 
advice.  
As I explained in my decision in August 2022, the further correspondence didnt change the 
six-month time-frame Mr C had to bring his complaint to our service. The arguments Mr C 
has made under this current complaint dont change the outcome I reached on that 
complaint  as a result, we dont have the power to make a finding on the advice Mr C was 
given. Even if I were to agree the complaint about not answering the questions was a separate 
issue, I agree with what the investigator has explained about the activities we can look at. 
The rules we follow  set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook  say that we can only look at certain activities carried out by financial 
firms  the specific rules can be found in DISP 2.3.
Regarding investments, the most common activities we can consider are advising on 
investments, dealing investments, or safeguarding and administering investments. Customer 
service or complaint handling are not in themselves activities that we can consider. We can 
only consider them when they are ancillary to the listed activities. The activity that Mr Cs 
questions relate to is that of advising on investments  and we have no ability to look at the 
advice, as set out above and in my previous decision. 
As a result, we cant look into Mr Cs complaint about the ancillary activities Halifax carried 
out, including their answer to his questions regarding how the adviser was paid or their 
qualifications. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr C £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman