DRN-3422633
The complaint
Mr C says he has lost all his pension fund as a result investing in what turned out to be a 
scam.  He says Gaudi Regulated Services Limited failed to carry out appropriate checks on 
his application to open a self-invested person pension (SIPP) and make that investment in 
the SIPP.
What happened
The parties
Gaudi Regulated Services
Gaudi is a SIPP provider and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Gaudi is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate and wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
Affinity Global Developments plc
Affinity Global Investments was incorporated in 2014 in the UK.  In 2014 it issued bonds to 
be listed on the GXG Main Quote Market in Denmark.  The bonds had a five-year term 
paying a return of 8%-12% over the term of the bond.  
Mr C invested in the bonds in his SIPP.
In May 2020, Affinity Global Developments (now called Anilana International 
Developments) entered liquidation.  
Dante Partners LLP
Dante Partners was a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated introducer who, at the 
relevant time, had been specifically restricted by the FCA from carrying on any investment 
services and activities (to which MiFID applies) on a regular basis except reception and 
transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments or investment 
advice".
Gaudi says that Mr Cs application for a SIPP was introduced to it by Dante Partners.  Mr C 
says he is not aware of this firms involvement in this matter.
Gaudi also says Dante Partners was engaged by Affinity Global Developments to promote 
its bonds.
I have seen a document summarising the Affinity Global Developments plc Offer Document 
which says This document has been approved by Dante Partners LLP on behalf of its 
Appointed Representative, IPO Capital Partners Limited who act for Affinity Global 
Developments plc only in this Offer and issue of securities.
Beaufort Securities
Beaufort Securities, was a wealth management and stockbroking firm that offered a range 
of services to its clients, including advisory stockbroking, online share dealing, foreign 
exchange trading and discretionary fund management services. 
As part of the application process for the SIPP with Gaudi Mr C agreed to open a share 
dealing account with Beaufort through whom all investment activity will be transacted.
Beaufort Securities has been fined twice by the FCA, in 2003 and 2006, for various 
breaches of the FCAs Principles.
Gaudi points out that in this case Beaufort was not acting as a discretionary investment 
manager.  It says Beaufort only executed Mr Cs investment instructions. 
Mr H
On the Beaufort Stockbroking Account application Mr C agreed to authorise an agent to 
give instructions in respect of the account.  The agent was a man I will refer to as Mr H.  Mr 
H was at the time a director of Affinity Global Developments plc and he gave as his 
address the registered address of that company.
Gaudi says Mr H instructed Beaufort to make the investment into the Affinity Global 
Developments bonds. 
Mr L
Mr L had previously been an FCA regulated financial adviser between 2001 and 2009.  He 
was not authorised to give regulated investment advice in 2015.
There is no recorded connection between Mr L and Dante Partners or its appointed 
representative IPO Capital Partners on the FCA register.  I am not aware if there was any 
unregistered relationship between Mr L and either of those firms.
Mr C says he was advised by Mr L. Gaudi says it was not aware of his involvement.
What happened
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (CMC). The CMC says in 2015 Mr C 
was advised to transfer his existing pensions by Mr L. 
It says Mr L advised Mr C to transfer existing personal pensions to a SIPP with Gaudi in 
order to invest in Affinity Global Developments.
Mr C signed documents to apply for a Gaudi SIPP in January 2015, and the SIPP was 
opened in February 2015.
On 23 February 2015, Mr Cs SIPP transferred almost £700,000 to Beaufort Securities. 
Almost all of the money in the SIPP was invested in Affinity Global Developments debt 
instruments.
In May 2020, Affinity Global Developments (now called Anilana International Developments) entered liquidation.  It is likely Mr C has lost all his pension. 
The complaint against Gaudi
In February 2021, Mr C complained to Gaudi that they had not carried out sufficient due 
diligence on either his introducer, or on the underlying investment held within the SIPP. The 
CMC said if Gaudi had conducted appropriate due diligence, it would not have accepted 
Mr Cs business.  
The CMC said it was implausible that Mr C would have switched his existing pension to a 
SIPP without advice and that if Gaudi had checked with Mr C it would have discovered he 
had been advised by Mr L  who was not authorised to give advice.  It said Gaudi should 
also have had concerns about the involvement of Beaufort and that the size of Mr Cs 
investment and the nature of the investment should have been warning signals to Gaudi.  
In short, the CMC said Gaudi ought to have realised the investment was likely to a scam 
and should not have invested Mr Cs money in that fund.
Gaudis response to the complaint
Gaudi explained why they disagreed with Mr Cs complaint.  It made a number of points 
including:
It is not authorised to give advice.
Mr C was introduced by Dante Partners who had permission to make promotions 
to retail clients.
Mr C signed a declaration to confirm that it had recommended that he seek 
professional advice from a suitably qualified and authorised adviser but had 
chosen not to do so.
The SIPP meant Mr C could choose from a wide variety of investments and Mr C 
chose to set up a dealing account with Beaufort.  The pension funds he switched to 
his SIPP were transferred to that dealing account.
Mr C completed an application that named Mr H as his appointed agent.
Mr H then gave instructions to Beaufort and other than transferring the funds to 
Beaufort Gaudi had no involvement in the investment process.
Gaudi did carry out due diligence on Dante Partners.
Beauforts role was also limited.  It did not provide advice.
The Affinity investment was assessed as a standard investment and so Gaudi was 
not obliged to put in in place any special measures for it.
Gaudi acted in accordance with Mr Cs instruction in setting up the SIPP and 
transferring his pension rights to it  which was an execution only transaction.
Gaudi cannot assess the suitability of a transaction for a client.  To decline Mr Cs 
instructions would have been akin to an assessment of suitability requiring it to 
investigate all Mr Cs circumstances.  It was not authorised to do this.
Accordingly, the assessment of suitability is the responsibility of the client, Mr C, 
and any advisers he appoints.
Gaudi did write to Mr C in January 2015 and asked him to sign a declaration that 
he was aware that the investment was high risk and/or speculative, may be illiquid 
and/or difficult to sell.  This should have made Mr C aware of the risks of investing 
in Affinity and prompted him to seek independent financial advice.
Gaudi does not agree that it would have been clear that Mr C had been given 
advice.
And the promotion of the investment had been approved by authorised firms.
There was no reason to question or not follow Mr Cs instructions. The complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and his complaint was considered 
by one of our investigators.  She thought the complaint should be upheld.  She made a 
number of points including:
Gaudi was obliged to follow the Principles for Businesses in the FCAs handbook.
The regulator had issued reports on reviews of, and guidance to, SIPP operators 
and dear CEO letters between 2009 and 2014.  These provide a reminder to SIPP 
operators that the Principles should be followed and illustrate the kind of things the 
regulator expects from SIPP operators to produce the outcomes envisaged by the 
principles.
Gaudi ought to have had significant concerns about the manner in which Mr C was 
introduced to it and made his investment.
It is unlikely that Mr C would have switched his pension and invested more than 
£600,000 in the Affinity investment without advice.
While accepting that Gaudi believed he was introduced by Dante Partners, it was 
not authorised to give advice on pension switches.  And in the circumstances it 
was reasonable to make further checks.  If it had, it is likely it would have 
discovered that Mr C had received advice from someone who was not authorised 
to give investment advice 
Beaufort had been fined twice for breaches of the Principles. While it was still an 
authorised firm, Gaudi should have been cautious about any business which 
involved that firm.
Mr C invested nearly all his pension into one fund which Gaudi had assessed to be 
a high-risk fund and Gaudi lacked the systems or controls to respond to and avert 
the risk of over concentration in such funds.  
There was significant risk of consumer detriment and Gaudi should have 
recognised this risk and acted on it.
Unlike in the court case of Adams v Carey, there is no evidence in this case that 
Mr C would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of any action taken by 
the SIPP operator.
If Gaudi had carried out sufficient due diligence Mr C would not have switched his 
pension and he would not have invested in Affinity via Beaufort.  He would not 
therefore have suffered the losses he has suffered.
The investigator then set out how she thought Gaudi should put this right.
The CMC agreed with the investigator.  Gaudi does not agree with the investigator.  It has 
made a number of points in response, including:
Gaudi did check if Mr C had received financial advice.  It is a specific question in 
the SIPP application form.  Mr C signed a declaration to confirm that Gaudi had 
suggested he take advice. Given that when asked in the application form Mr C did 
not disclose the involvement of Mr L, there is no guarantee he would have done so 
if asked again by Gaudi.
It was always Gaudis understanding that Dante Partners had introduced Mr C to 
the SIPP.  There was therefore no reason to question how Mr C became aware of 
Gaudis services.  
Dante Partners was authorised to introduce business to Gaudi and to promote the 
Affinity investment.
Gaudi was not aware of the involvement of Mr L and cannot be held responsible 
for actions of a person whose existence is not disclosed to it and whose involvement was actively concealed.
It now understands Mr L was a family friend of Mr C which explains why Mr C was 
willing to trust him and rely on his advice. 
Mr L witnessed the signing of the document in which Mr C says he was not given 
advice, yet it is Mr L that Mr C now says gave the advice.  This discrepancy should 
be explained.  Further it seems likely Mr C knew Mr L was no longer authorised to 
give investment advice given he was a family friend.
Beaufort provided an execution only service as a conduit for the customers funds 
to be transferred into the chosen investment and once the investment had taken 
place Beaufort acted purely as a custodian.  It was fully authorised and regulated 
to provide the services it provided.
Beaufort did not provide Mr C with a discretionary fund management service.  The 
due diligence carried out by Gaudi was appropriate to the service it provided.
Mr C only invested in a standard asset and the due diligence obligations relevant 
for such an investment were carried out.
The fines issued to Beaufort in the past did not relate to pension investments or to 
investments in Affinity or its role and as an execution only custodian.
Gaudi did carry out due diligence on the Affinity investments.  It required 
investments to be fully advised or promoted by a regulated entity as they were 
here as Dante Partners was noted as the regulated introducer.
It is Gaudis view that as the investment was introduced by a friend Mr C would 
have invested in Affinity in any event.
Mr C switched one pension reliant on investment returns for another.  To have 
refused to allow it would have been akin to an assessment of suitability which 
Gaudi is not able to do.
Gaudi did all that it could which was warn Mr C of the risks of investing in a high 
risk and/or illiquid investment and suggest independent advice is taken.  Mr C 
signed a declaration to this effect.
Gaudi is not involved in the investment made in the Beaufort dealing account.  The 
assessment of suitability is down to Mr C and any adviser he appointed.
Gaudi is aware that Mr C made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.  It assumes this was in relation to Beaufort.  Mr C should provide details 
and explain whether he has assigned his rights to complaint to the FSCS.
Point made by the Mr C
Mr Cs CMC has informed us that Mr Cs claim to the FSCS was in respect of Beaufort 
and was declined by the FSCS.  Accordingly, Mr C has not assigned his right to make 
this complaint to the FSCS and he is free to proceed with this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The PrinciplesIn my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 
3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the high court judgment, Adams v 
Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they didnt 
form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal judgment gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles either. So, Adams v Options SIPP says 
nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of 
a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule 
was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of the Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr Cs case.   I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Cs complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R, alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Cs case, including Gaudis role in the transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the 
firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or 
cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does 
not appear on the FCA website listings for un- authorised business 
warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP 
business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal 
with, the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types 
of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP 
operators. Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually 
small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted 
shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used 
to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing 
this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of 
the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing 
the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks 
to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good 
industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP 
operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to 
meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Gaudi complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr C), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Gaudi could have done to comply 
with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
The checks made by Gaudi and the steps it took
I have considered what Gaudi has said about the checks it made and the steps it took 
keeping in mind its role and contractual obligations as an execution only SIPP provider.  I 
note that Gaudi was not under an obligation to give Mr C advice on the suitability of the 
investment he was proposing to make.
Gaudi says it carried out due diligence on the Affinity investment.  It says the investment 
memorandum was approved by a regulated firm for promotion to retail clients.  And Gaudi 
has said that it required any sales to be fully advised or promoted by a regulated entity, as 
they were in this instance, as Dante was noted  as the regulated introducer with full 
permissions to promote the investment.
It should be noted that promoting an investment is not the same as recommending the 
investment as suitable for an individual client.  (And to be clear I am not saying that Gaudi 
says they are the same.)
Nor does being suitable for promotion to retail clients necessarily mean that an investment 
should be regarded as one that retail investors may reasonably and safely invest in without 
taking advice.  And again I do not say Gaudi say it is.  
As noted above, a document promoting the Affinity investment included:This document has been approved by Dante Partners LLP on behalf of its Appointed 
Representative, IPO Capital Partners Limited who act for Affinity Global 
Developments plc only in this offer and issue of securities.
So Gaudi was aware that Dante Partners was promoting the investment on behalf of the 
issuers of the investment and so its role in the introduction was clearly not equivalent to 
independent financial advice to Mr C on the suitability of the investment for him.  (And again, 
I do not say that Gaudi says it is.)
Gaudi says it wrote to Mr C on 20 January 2015 about his proposed investment.  It wrote a 
declaration for Mr C to sign which included:
...
Scheme Name: The EasySIPP from [Gaudi]
Investment Name:  Affinity Global Developments Plc
I, [Mr C] being a prospective member/member of the above Scheme write to instruct 
[Gaudi] to purchase Debentures in Affinity Global Developments Plc, as indicated in 
my separate application, on my behalf for the above Scheme.
I confirm that I have considered the information prospectus provided by Affinity 
Global Developments Plc and I am fully aware that the investment is High Risk 
and/or Speculative, may be illiquid and/or difficult to sell, which may impact on my 
ability to take my pension benefits and take a pension income and confirm I wish to 
proceed.
I acknowledge that I have been recommended to seek professional advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser, however, have chosen not to seek advice 
for this transaction.
I am fully aware that Gaudiact on an Execution Only Basis as directed by me as 
scheme member and that Gaudi has not provided any advice whatsoever in 
respect of this investment or the SIPP
So having reviewed the investment Gaudi thought it was appropriate to warn Mr C that the 
investment was high risk and /or speculative and that it thought Mr C should get advice 
about it.
Mr C signed the declaration on 27 January 2015 to say he acknowledged the warning but 
had decided not to get advice.
Gaudi in effect argues this is all it could reasonably do given its limited role. 
Mr C entered into an arrangement  a term I use in a non-technical sense  in which he 
transferred his existing personal pension to a SIPP with Gaudi in order to set up a dealing 
account with Beaufort, which Mr H could operate, so that he (Mr C) could invest in the 
Affinity investments. 
Gaudi says it knew this business by Mr C was introduced to it by Dante and Partners  a 
promotor of the investment.  
And Gaudi says it had checked the investment Mr C was intending to make  the Affinity 
investment.  So it knew Mr H was a director of Affinity and it knew Mr C was opening the 
Beaufort Dealing account and authorising Mr H to operate it.So Gaudi knew, before Mr C invested, that it was Mr H, a director of Affinity, who was 
authorised to make the investment and that no independent advice had been received by Mr 
C about the wisdom of entering into such an arrangement.
In my view Gaudi should have been concerned about the arrangement Mr C was entering 
into. Gaudi should have been concerned about the implausibility of someone wanting to 
transfer an existing personal pension to a SIPP to invest in a high risk, potentially illiquid 
investment, such as Affinity, without having been persuaded or advised to do so.
In this case it should have been concerned that Mr C had not received any independent 
advice about the suitability of the investment for him, and the wisdom of the overall 
arrangement.
Gaudi should have been concerned about the role being played by those who had an 
interest in the investment.  It should also have had some concerns about the poor record of 
Beaufort and about its involvement in the arrangement.
Gaudi should have been concerned about the size of the investment and the large 
proportion of the pension being invested in one investment  the high degree of 
concentration risk.
There were warning signs that there was real risk of detriment here - that Mr C was at risk of 
suffering real and serious harm through not getting independent advice.
All in all there was enough here to make it reasonable for Gaudi to change its existing policy 
and decide to accept Mr Cs business only if he obtained professional advice from a suitably 
qualified and authorised adviser.  Gaudi should have realised that its alternative requirement 
of requiring promotion by an authorised firm was not enough to give it reasonable assurance 
about the quality of the SIPP business it was considering or to reasonably act fairly and 
professionally in accordance with Mr Cs best interests.
Such a decision was not akin to Gaudi giving advice on suitability.  It was consistent with its 
obligations as an execution only SIPP provider  it was just a slight change, appropriate to 
the circumstances, of its existing policy decision. 
So Gaudi should have either appropriately sought clarification from Mr C about whether he 
had been given any advice.  Or alternatively it could have said it was not prepared to accept 
the business unless Mr C obtained independent advice without first checking whether or not 
he had been advised.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, a standardised declaration was not enough.  If Mr C was 
being persuaded to invest in the investment  which was a real risk  there was a risk that 
he would be persuaded not to give the declaration proper attention. Gaudi should have seen 
this as an unusual transaction in which it should have sought appropriate clarification from 
Mr C.  Or, as mentioned, it could have decided to proceed only if Mr C obtained independent 
advice.
If Gaudi had appropriately contacted Mr C to find out if he had been advised, Mr C would 
have revealed that he had been advised by Mr L.  If this had happened Gaudi should have 
made it clear it could not accept such business because Mr L was not authorised to give 
advice.
Alternatively Mr C might have agreed to get independent advice without mentioning Mr Ls 
involvement.  If Mr C had obtained independent advice it is more likely than not that he would have been 
advised not to make such an investment.  The investment was high risk and not something 
that most ordinary retail investors should have been advised to invest their pensions in 
except in only limited amounts.  I cannot see that Mr C would have been advised to transfer 
his existing personal pension to a SIPP to invest his pension in Affinity by any reasonable 
independent adviser acting reasonably. 
Did Gaudis failings cause Mr Cs loss?
It is my view that if Gaudi had considered Mr Cs application fairly it should have taken steps 
which would have meant that it would not have accepted the application.  Either Gaudi would 
have rejected the application or it would, in effect have been withdrawn, if Mr C had obtained 
suitable independent financial advice.
I do not think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to say that Gaudi 
should not have to pay compensation because of the declaration Mr C signed.  I have 
already said I do not consider that the declaration was an appropriate way to deal with the 
risks of customer detriment Gaudi ought to have recognised in this case.
Nor do I think it more likely than not that Mr C would have invested in the way he did in any 
event because he was persuaded to do so by Mr L.  Mr L was not authorised to give 
investment advice.  If Gaudi had acted appropriately either his involvement would have been 
discovered and the application rejected on that ground.  Or alternatively regulated 
independent advice would have been obtained which given its regulated and independent 
status would reasonably have been more influential on Mr Cs thinking.  Pension 
investments are important matters and Mr C made a large investment.  I cannot see that he 
would have insisted on such an investment because it had been recommended by a family 
friend if he was advised against it by an authorised independent adviser.
Accordingly it is my view that Gaudis failings did cause Mr C to suffer the losses he has 
suffered.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would now be in if Gaudi had acted 
appropriately.
Gaudi should calculate fair compensation by comparing Mr Cs current position to the 
position Mr C would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension to Gaudi 
and invested in the way he did.
Gaudi should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Cs pension, if 
he had not switched away from it, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary 
Gaudi should:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Cs previous pension plan, if it had not been 
switched to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Cs SIPP, including any outstanding  charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy the Affinity investment (or treat it as 
having a zero value in the compensation calculations).4. Pay an amount into Mr Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to 
equal the value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief and the effect of charges. It should also take account of 
interest as set out below.
5. If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Affinity investment and 
used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.
6. Gaudi should also refund to Mr C any fees or charges he has paid from 
money other than the money originally transferred in from his personal 
pension together with 8% simple interest per year from the date the fee or 
charge was paid until the date of this decision.
7. Pay Mr C £750 for the distress and inconvenience the significant losses in 
his pension will have caused him. Mr C has been caused significant distress 
and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. This is money Mr C 
cannot afford to lose.  Mr C suffers from poor health and the loss of his 
pension has caused considerable distress and worry.  And Mr C has not 
been able to take a pension income following the loss of his job in 2021 
because his pension fund is worthless.  I consider that a payment of £750 is 
appropriate to compensate for that upset.
8. Provide Mr C with a calculation in an easy to follow format showing how 
Gaudi has calculated the compensation payment.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation of the previous pension, then 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That 
is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable 
funds had been chosen taking account of Mr Cs likely attitude to risk.
If Gaudi is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the above calculation. And Gaudi may ask Mr C 
to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP 
may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax 
and charges on the amount Mr C may receive from the investments and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Gaudi will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
If Gaudi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Cs SIPP it should pay the 
compensation as a lump sum to Mr C. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP it 
would have provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. For example, if Mr C is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic 
rate of tax.
However, if Mr C would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional 
allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr C or into 
his SIPP within 28 days of the date Gaudi receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Gaudi Regulated Services Limited should 
pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus 
interest as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Gaudi Regulated Services Limited pays Mr C the balance 
and interest on the balance as set out above. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Gaudi Regulated Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman