DRN-1275075
 
The complaint
Mr As unhappy with Assurant General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his mobile 
phone insurance claim.
All references to Assurant include its claims-handling agents. 
What happened
Briefly, Mr A has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. Mr A told Assurant a 
phone was stolen from his wife in February 2019 and that he wanted to claim on his policy.
As part of its claim investigation, Assurant asked Mr A for various pieces of information such 
as evidence that the device was registered to his wifes iCloud account and that the phone 
was in lost mode on the iCloud account. 
Mr A provided some information but Assurant had concerns about the claim as it felt he 
hadnt provided everything it had asked for and because it believed there were 
inconsistencies in some of the things Mr A had said. In its final response Assurant said it 
was declining the claim since, among other things, the phone was no longer connected to 
the iCloud account and that this could only be done with the relevant ID and password. And 
the phone was still in use for a time after it was stolen, despite the security features Mr A 
said had been activated.
Mr A was unhappy with the decision and complained to us. Most recently, one of our 
investigators looked in to the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
were satisfied that the Find My iPhone remote location tracking feature had been 
reactivated on the phone during the course of the claim, which could only be done on the 
device itself. This led him to believe that Assurants concerns over the claim were 
reasonable and that it had acted fairly by not paying it.
Dissatisfied with the investigators findings, Mr A asked for a decision by an ombudsman. 
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where its appropriate. Ive considered whether Assurant acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr A. Ive taken into account both sides views.  But, where 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then Ive to come to a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider whats more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. The starting point for me is the policy terms. The policy doesnt provide for an exhaustive list 
of documents or information that Mr A was required to provide Assurant with in the event of 
a claim for theft. But what it did say was that it might require proof of ownership as well as:
 additional information and documentation in order to assess your claim.
This could include documentation to show when the device was last used, when any loss or 
theft was reported to your network, or to verify your identity. We will confirm what is required, 
if anything, during the claims process.
The policy terms also stressed the importance of claimants taking reasonable care when 
answering questions and doing so to the best of their knowledge.
So, its clear that Assurant was entitled to ask for a reasonable level of detail and 
documentation from Mr A to support his claim. And, if such information wasnt forthcoming, 
then the payment of the claim might be affected. 
I've also looked at the evidence supplied and considered the timeline of events. When Mr A 
first made his claim to Assurant it reasonably asked for further information. It then came to 
Assurants notice that there were discrepancies in some of the available evidence, which led 
to subsequent reasonable requests for further information. I can understand Mr As 
frustration over this but, at the same time, I can also understand why Assurant has certain 
misgivings. 
For example, and most importantly in my view, theres the activity thats taken place on the 
phone in the time since its theft: 
the phone being restored (wiped and reset to factory settings); and 
the deactivation and reactivation of Find My iPhone.
Taking the restoration first, I note that Assurants submitted evidence from the Apple GSX 
database  a tool that provides details of devices once their IMEI numbers been submitted. 
In this case, the database shows the phone was restored on 3 March 2019. As I understand 
it, this can be done in different ways, but they all require access to the owner/users security 
information. I think it unlikely a thief would gain access to that information.   
Regarding Find My iPhone, Assurants provided a screen shot of its search results from a 
database that draws on data from various sources including the police and the insurance 
industry. Its search of 27 March 2019 indicated Find My iPhone wasnt activated on the 
phone at that time.
A further database check of the phone on 18 April 2019 indicated Find My iPhone was 
activated. Im satisfied that, as Assurants pointed out, the Find My iPhone feature cant be 
activated remotely and can only be activated on the device itself. 
Im persuaded by the evidence provided by Assurant and I havent seen a satisfactory 
explanation as to how the reactivation of Find My iPhone could have taken place in the 
circumstances Mr As described.    
Overall, Assurant was left in the position of having unresolved concerns about the claim to 
the extent it couldnt satisfy itself the claim was valid. Ive carefully considered the 
information Mr As provided in support of the claim, but I believe Assurants concerns were 
legitimate in the circumstances.Id emphasise that this isnt a question of me disbelieving Mr A. Instead, its a case of what 
the evidence indicates to me. Taking all the evidence into account, and while I recognise 
Mr As strength of feeling about the matter, I dont believe Assurants treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman