DRN-3342572
The complaint
Mr K has complained about an overdraft Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) provided to him. He 
says BoS was irresponsible to lend to him given his circumstances.
What happened
BoS provided Mr K with a student overdraft for £1500 in September 2018, the limit on the
facility was increased to £2000 in October 2019. As a student account, the overdraft was to 
be interest and fee free for at least the duration of Mr Ks studies provided he stayed within 
his limit.
Mr Ks mother  Mrs K  who is representing him in his complaint, has told us that Mr K has 
experienced a period of serious mental illness starting in early 2018. Shes said she was in 
regular discussion with staff at her local branch of BoS regarding Mr Ks circumstances and 
that in those discussions with them she was told he wouldnt be offered any further lending. 
Mrs K says BoS was therefore irresponsible to first give Mr K an overdraft facility and then to 
increase that facility. Mrs K has asked that all or part of the amount that was lent to Mr K be 
refunded to him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs K and BoS had told us. And he thought BoS 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ks 
complaint be upheld. Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint.
BoS says it agreed to Mr Ks initial overdraft application at the same time as he converted 
his account to a student account in 2018. The interest free overdraft facility was a feature of 
the student account, and so only limited affordability checks were carried out. Similarly, 
when Mr K increased his limit to £2000 in 2019 that increase was within the pre-approved 
limit for that type of account. Im satisfied that appropriate checks were done for the type of 
facility that BoS was offering to Mr K, and looking at the general operation of Mr Ks account 
in both 2018 and 2019, I dont think that there was anything that should have flagged to BoS 
that Mr K would be unable to manage or service the overdraft he was given as part of his 
student account. Mr K received income into the account from both employers and benefits 
over the years, and his spending didnt seem to be unusual or concerning. And I think its 
also worth bearing in mind that Mr K wouldnt have had to pay any interest or charges on the 
overdraft for some time, provided that he kept within his overdraft limit.
I appreciate that Mrs K says BoS was aware that Mr K was experiencing serious mental 
health issues at the time the overdraft was agreed and increased, but there are no records to 
show that this was formally recorded with BoS until November 2020. I know that Mrs K has 
provided some handwritten notes from when she spoke to BoS in late 2018, and she says 
these show that BoS was ware of Mr Ks difficulties. But those notes dont show me exactly 
what was said or discussed at that time or the context of any conversations about Mr Ks 
mental health. And I think it is worth noting that it would not be fair for BoS to have assumed 
that Mr K was unable to manage his own finances or that he should be prevented from 
operating his account normally solely because he had experienced mental health issues. 
I know that Mrs K had a third party mandate to allow her some access to Mr Ks account in 
early 2019, but that didnt allow her to make changes to his account  such as adding a flag 
to say he was vulnerable or that lending to him should be restricted. When such a flag was 
added to Mr Ks account in November 2020, BoSs notes suggest this was because Mr K 
had himself given permission for his vulnerability to be recorded. And this is what I would 
expect BoS to have done, while I dont doubt that Mrs K may have spoken to bank staff 
about Mr Ks difficulties, we wouldnt expect BoS to have officially recorded anything until it 
was asked to by Mr K or someone who was officially entitled to manage his accounts on his 
behalf  it was, after all, his account. 
So thinking about how Mr K had been managing his account, what BoS had been asked to 
record about his circumstances, and the type of facility it agreed to, I dont think that BoS 
treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with an interest free overdraft or 
increasing the limit on that overdraft.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr K and Mrs K. But I hope theyll understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman