DRN-3545414
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr W complained that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money), 
unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs M and Mr W bought three timeshare memberships from the same timeshare supplier in 
October 2006, February/March 2007, and August 2007. The purchases are detailed below. 
In October 2006, Mrs M and Mr W purchased a trial membership with the supplier. Under 
that trial membership they were entitled to take five weeks of holiday over a 34-month 
period. They paid for their trial membership by taking a loan from GE Money for £2,400. 
They paid the remaining £1,095 via other means. 
In late February 2007, Mrs M and Mr W took out a points-based membership from the same 
timeshare provider. The total cost of membership was £27,011. Mrs M and Mr W paid 
£5,500 on card and took a loan with GE Money for the balance. Mrs M and Mr W also 
refinanced an earlier loan and took out a protection plan for the finance, so in total they 
borrowed £25,667.88 and the loan was set to run for fifteen years. While the sale took place 
in February, the loan started on 1 March 2007.
In August 2007, Mrs M and Mr W increased the amount of points they held with the 
timeshare supplier. The total cost of the membership was £38,958, which was paid for by 
trading in the timeshare they had taken out earlier that year and taking a loan with GE 
Money for the balance. Mrs M and Mr W also refinanced their earlier loan, so in total they 
borrowed £38,117.16 and the loan term was set at fifteen years. This loan was paid off in 
2011 when Mr W took a lump sum from his pension.
In September 2018, Mrs M and Mr W (using a professional representative) made a claim 
against GE Money for problems they said they had with the timeshare, claiming a refund of 
all payments made towards the three loans, the management fees associated with the 
timeshare agreements, interest, legal fees and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. They said the nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to 
them, so they were able to make a claim against GE Money under s.75 of the CCA. 
Mrs M and Mr Ws representatives also set out a claim under s.140A of the CCA, specifying 
that the actions of the seller made the lending relationship between GE Money and 
Mrs M and Mr W unfair. In addition, it was said the lending breached the OFT code and was 
irresponsible. 
GE Money responded to Mrs M and Mr Ws s.75 claim for the two agreements taken out in 
2007. It said that, as the loan proceeds were not paid directly to the timeshare supplier, the 
provisions in the CCA Mrs M and Mr W are seeking to rely on do not apply. It also said that 
the claim had been brought too late under the provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). In providing Mrs M and Mr W with referral rights, GE Money said the complaint about 
the first loan in 2007 fell outside the jurisdiction of this service. 
GE Money did not initially respond to Mrs M and Mr Ws claim for the loan taken out in 
October 2006 nor did it respond to their claim under s.140A pertaining to all three loans. 
In reference to Mrs M and Mr Ws complaint that the lending was irresponsible, GE Money 
said it had carried out checks for the loan taken in August 2007 and in looking at 
Mrs M and Mr Ws income vs expenditure, it was satisfied its decision to lend was 
reasonable. Regarding the loan taken out in early 2007, GE Money said Mrs M and Mr W 
had brought their complaint too late under the LA. It did not provide comment on the 2006 
loan. 
Unhappy with the outcome of GE Moneys investigation into their various claims, 
Mrs M and Mr W brought a complaint to our service that GE Money had unfairly turned down 
their claims. 
GE Money reiterated the arguments it had already made. In addition, it disagreed that the 
lending relationship between it and Mrs M and W was unfair. It also acknowledged that it had 
provided the finance for the 2006 loan and agreed for this service to deal with complaints 
concerning all three loans. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and issued an opinion plus a number of 
follow up endorsements setting out why he thought GE Money had acted fairly. In summary 
he thought:
The provisions in the LA mean Mrs M and Mr W made their claims under s. 75 and 
140A of the CCA too late. So, it was fair for GE Money not to uphold their claim or 
pay compensation. He did not agree with Mrs M and Mr Ws representatives that 
exceptions apply, and time should start to run later in light of alleged fraud, 
concealment or mistake on the part of the supplier. 
Given he agreed with GE Moneys argument that the claims had been made too late, 
he did not think it necessary to consider its second argument that the protections 
Mrs M and Mr W were seeking to rely on did not apply due to the payment being 
made to a third party, rather than the timeshare supplier. 
He concluded this service does have jurisdiction to consider s.75 claims on point of 
sale loans taken out before 6 April 2007 as the event complained of is GE Moneys 
response to the claim which was issued after this service gained jurisdiction to 
consider CCA regulated loans. 1
He did not think this service had jurisdiction to look into Mrs M and Mr Ws claim that 
the lending was unaffordable for the loans taken out before 6 April 2007. While he did 
conclude we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint for the loan taken in August 
2007, he wasnt persuaded by the information provided that the lending was 
unaffordable or irresponsible.  
He explained that as Mrs M and Mr Ws first two loans started before 6 April 2007 
and did not continue to run into 2008, s.140A does not apply so they are unable to 
make a claim under this provision. 
1 GE Money has told this service it is no longer seeking to challenge our jurisdiction on this point so I 
will not comment on it further in this decision. Mrs M and Mr Ws representatives disagreed with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator and have asked that the case be put to an ombudsman for decision. GE Money 
confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Mrs M and Mr W have made several claims, I will deal with each in turn.
The misrepresentation claims under s.75 CCA
Mrs M and Mr W said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the 
memberships to them at each sale and that they have a claim for misrepresentation against 
the supplier under the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). Under s.75 of the CCA, GE 
Money could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare 
supplier. 
It is worth noting that the cash price of the timeshare purchased in August 2007 exceeded 
the financial limit of £30,000 set out in s.75 of the CCA, so I do not think that provision 
applies. However, even if a claim could have been made under that (or any similar 
provision), for the reasons set out below I think it was made too late.
GE Money argued that any claim brought by Mrs M and Mr W for any alleged 
misrepresentations was made too late under the provisions of the LA. I have considered that 
argument and, having done so, agree with what GE Money has said. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I have not decided whether the limitation period has expired as that would be a matter 
for the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, I have considered whether GE Money 
has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) MA. A 
claim under s.2(1) MA is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the
limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2
LA).
Here Mrs M and Mr W brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 of the CCA. The 
limitation period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying
misrepresentation claim. Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mrs M and Mr W entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an
agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier andsuffered a loss. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have
bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the
loan agreement with GE Money that they were bound to and would have never taken out but
for the misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in October 
2006, March 2007 and August 2007 so Mrs M and Mr W had six years from each of those 
dates to bring a corresponding claim. But they did not make a claim against GE Money until 
September 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
GE Money has also argued that the provisions Mrs M and Mr W are seeking to rely on do 
not apply because the money was not paid directly to the timeshare supplier. But as I have 
already agreed that GE Money acted fairly in declining their claim, I do not consider it 
necessary to comment on this point. 
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in connection with a
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mrs M and Mr W could have made a claim under 
s.140A of the CCA and concluded that they couldnt for their first two loans as that provision 
didnt apply to the credit agreements. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement 
started before 6 April 2007 and completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A 
CCA could be brought in respect of that credit agreement.
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mrs M and Mr Ws first loan ended 
as it says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im 
not surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. 
But I note that the loan was taken out in October 2006 and set to run for 12 months. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M and Mrs Ws first loan 
agreement ended in October 2007 at the latest, so I dont think they are able to make a claim 
under s.140A for this loan. 
GE Money has shown that Mrs M and Mr Ws second loan started on 1 March 2007 and was 
paid off in August 2007. So, I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A for this 
loan either. 
Mrs M and Mrs Ws third loan was taken out after 6 April 2007 so I am satisfied they can 
bring a claim under s.140A of the CCA. 
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because
the claim Mrs M and Mr W wish to make is for repayment of sums they have paid to the loan, 
which is an action for sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 LA applies. 
That means Mrs M and Mr W would have to bring an action within six years of November 
2011. As they did not do that, I think they brought their claim too late.Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mrs M and Mr Ws representatives disagree and believe s.32 LA applies. This states that in 
cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a 
claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence). 
For there to be a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and therefore one
which GE Money could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA, there would need to be a
number of things needed to be found. There would need to be a false representation by the
fraudster, that representation would need to have been made knowing it was false (or being
reckless as whether it was false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in
reliance of the representation and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here I cannot see
any evidence that any of those four elements were satisfied, in particular I do not think 
Mrs M and Mr W have set out what the false statement of fact was that it is alleged the 
supplier made to them was.
Mrs M and Mr W have made claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA. If facts relevant to those
causes of action were deliberately concealed from them, the limitation period may be
extended. However, I do not consider that the concealment alleged by Mrs M and Mr Ws
representative conceals facts which can be viewed as essential elements of those rights of
action advanced by them. In any event, I do not consider there is sufficient evidence to
support the assertion that those facts were indeed concealed. 
Taking everything into account, I do not believe that s.32 of the LA extends the limitation 
period.
GE Money and Mrs M and Mr Ws representatives have also referred to the time limits set 
out in the DISP rules which apply to FCA governed complaint handling. But the rules the 
parties are referring to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a 
business about a regulated financial activity. Which in the current context, is a complaint that 
GE Money unfairly turned down their claim under the CCA. But the reason it decided to turn 
down the claim was because it did not think it was legally liable due to the operation of the 
LA, so that is why I have considered that legislation. DISP 2.8.2R does not extend the time 
to bring a claim in terms of the LA.
Unaffordable lending
Mrs M and Mr W say it was irresponsible of GE Money to lend to them on each of the three 
occasions and that proper credit checks were not carried out. 
The events Mrs M and Mr W are complaining about here relate to GE Moneys actions in 
deciding whether or not to lend. The decision to lend on the first two loans took place prior to 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys compulsory jurisdiction over CCA regulated loans, which 
commenced on 6 April 2007. So, any complaint relating to irresponsible or unaffordable 
lending would be outside our jurisdiction to consider regarding these two loans. The decision to provide finance for the third transaction took place in August 2007, after this 
service gained jurisdiction to consider CCA regulated loans. So, I am satisfied I can look at 
this element of their complaint.
I cant see that Mrs M and Mr W have provided much by way of further evidence about why 
they consider GE Moneys lending decision in August 2007 to be irresponsible in response 
to the view. But, even if I were to find GE Money didnt do all that it should have when it 
agreed to lend to them in August 2007, Id still need to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mrs M and Mr W and they lost out as a result in order to uphold this part of 
their complaint.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs M and Mr W had any affordability issues 
during the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. 
And while Im aware Mrs and Mr W chose to use a pension lump sum to settle the loan, 
this in isolation does not lead me to find that the lending was unaffordable. So, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down 
Mrs M and Mr Ws claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ws complaint against GE Money 
Home Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman