DRN-3289985
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a claim he made on a gadget insurance policy he took out with 
Zenith Insurance plc. He is unhappy that his claim for a lost mobile phone was declined 
because of the country the loss occurred in.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr S bought a gadget insurance policy for his mobile phone. The policy 
covered the phone for a year. The terms and conditions, which were sent to Mr S at the time, 
stated that:
CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS
2. This insurance only covers gadgets bought in the countries within the territorial limits of 
the policy. No cover is provided for claims where you are travelling to a country where the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) have advised against all but essential travel.
Mr S was visiting an ill family member in June 2021 when he lost his phone. The country he 
was visiting was one that the FCO had advised against all but essential travel. As such, 
when Mr S made a claim for the phone, he was told there was no cover available and the 
claim was declined. 
Mr S wasnt happy about Zeniths decision and complained. Zenith responded, but didnt 
uphold the complaint or change its decision about the claim. It acknowledged that the 
circumstances were essential to Mr S, but it maintained that its decision was correct. 
However, it indicated in the letter that the policy exclusion took account of whether the 
reason for travel was essential or not. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Zeniths response and referred the complaint to this service. 
Following one of our investigators initial comments on the complaint, Zenith clarified that the 
policy exclusion was not reliant on whether the reason for travel was essential or not. Rather 
there was no cover for travel to countries where the FCO had advised against all but 
essential travel, whether the reason for travel was essential or not. 
Ultimately, our investigator concluded that the policy didnt provide any cover for Mr S loss, 
and that Zenith had done nothing wrong in declining the claim. Mr S didnt accept the 
investigators conclusion as he considered that the wording was confusing. He didnt think 
that the rejection of the claim was fair, as the loss had nothing to do with the country he was 
in at the time. Nor did he think that the reason for the FCO giving the advice it had, would 
have increased the risk of him losing the phone, which again made Zeniths rejection of the 
claim unfair. He asked that the investigator reconsider her findings. 
The investigator considered Mr S further comments, but she wasnt persuaded to change 
her conclusions. Mr S asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that he thinks the policy exclusion is unclear. I have considered this, but I cant 
agree with him. The exclusion says that no cover is provided in a country if the FCO has said 
not to travel other than for reasons that are essential. It doesnt say that no cover is provided 
for non-essential travel to such a country or provide any other exceptions to the lack of 
cover. 
I can understand why Mr S is unhappy that his claim was declined. However, an insurer is 
entitled to decide what risks it is willing to accept. In this case, Zenith decided that it was not 
willing to insure items taken to countries were the UK government had recommended 
against travel, unless the reason was essential. Irrespective of whether Mr S agrees with 
Zeniths reasons for not offering cover in certain countries, it was entitled to make that 
decision, and many insurers have similar policy exclusions for such countries in place.
As such, when Mr S travelled to such a country, effectively the policy temporarily ceased to 
cover his mobile phone. In light of that, I cant find that Zenith was wrong to decline Mr S 
claim for the loss of his phone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
14 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman