DRN-4079016
The complaint
Ms M complains about her home emergency policy with British Gas Services Limited (British 
Gas). The complaint is about how British Gas responded to a water leak at her property. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
What happened
One morning in July 2022 Ms M had a problem with her toilet not flushing, but then water 
started leaking from toilet, initially into the garden. This followed earlier problems with the 
toilet in April 2022 (when the flush was replaced) and May 2022 (when a valve was 
unjammed, and flush replaced). Ms M had then agreed to have the toilet replaced, though 
this hadnt happened by the time of the further problems in July. 
Ms M phoned British Gas but was told there werent any appointments until the following 
week. However, water continued to leak from the toilet, starting to leak through the kitchen 
ceiling as well as the garden. Ms M contacted British Gas again in the evening of the same 
day, and an engineer came later that evening and was able to temporarily stop the leak.
However, Ms M was woken in the night by the sound of water, which was flowing into the 
garden and into the kitchen ceiling and stairs. She contacted British Gas again early the 
following morning and was told an engineer would attend as an emergency. However, an 
engineer didnt visit, despite her calling British Gas at regular intervals. Ms M called again 
the following morning and an engineer visited. He was able to fix the leak but advised Ms M 
not to use the toiler flush mechanism. 
An engineer visited again four days later (the date the following week Ms M had been told 
was the first available) although Ms M said she wouldnt be in on the date and had cancelled 
the appointment, as a new appointment had been made for four days after the first 
appointment. An engineer visited on the date of the new appointment and fitted a new toilet. 
But there was still a leak when it was flushed. Three days later the new toilet was 
uninstalled, a pipe replaced, and the toilet reinstalled. This fixed the leak, but Ms M was 
unhappy at the damage caused by the leak and the amount of water that had leaked.
Ms M was unhappy at what happened, so she complained to British Gas about the service 
shed received. In their final response British Gas said the damage that caused the leak was 
already present at the time their engineer attended, so Ms M would have to make a claim for 
the damage caused by the leak through her home insurance policy. However, British Gas 
offered £75 compensation for the delay in fitting the toilet.  
Ms M then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what had happened and 
the inconvenience shed suffered from the leak. The leak had left carpets wet and 
smelling (and potentially a health and safety hazard). She also didnt have a 
functioning toilet for more than a week. She wanted British Gas to take responsibility 
for the damage caused by the leak and repair and restore the damage to her 
property. She wanted an apology for the lack of professionalism shed experienced 
and a refund of what shed paid British Gas from July 2022 to date. She also wanted 
to terminate her policy and for British Gas to pay the water bill and what shed had to 
pay to her home insurer. She also thought her accent may have led to her being 
ignored and not listened to. (When discussing the outcome of her complaint with 
British Gas she said they discriminated against her on the grounds of race and 
gender  which they didnt accept).
Our investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint, concluding British Gas hadnt acted fairly. 
While she didnt consider British Gas responsible for the initial leak and damage, 
Ms M had been left without toilet facilities for several days and the replacement toilet 
wasnt fitted properly. British Gas had offered £75 for the delay in fitting the 
replacement toilet, but our investigator thought British Gas should pay an additional 
£325 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms M. 
While call recordings werent available, the investigator couldnt see any indication of 
inappropriate treatment of Ms M. There was an instance of an appointment having to 
be rearranged due to communication issues, but nothing to indicate any rudeness 
involved. So, she didnt uphold this aspect of complaint. While the order for a 
replacement toilet wasnt a regulated activity that would fall within the remit of this 
service, the investigator thought Ms M should have expected to receive updates from 
British Gas on what was happening. There was an unacceptable delay from the initial 
visits in July to when the toilet was replaced, during which time the old toilet couldnt 
be used. As the only toilet in the property, this had a significant impact on Ms M.
The investigator didnt consider British Gas responsible for the damage caused by the 
leak at the start of July, given the need for the toilet to be replaced. But as the new 
toilet had to be uninstalled and refitted as it wasnt initially fitted correctly, the 
investigator thought this indicated failings on the part of British Gas. But the contract 
for a replacement toilet was with British Gass contractors, so British Gas couldnt be 
held responsible for their errors.
  
Ms M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt think the total compensation of £400 recommended by the 
investigator was reasonable, given what had happened and the impact it had on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Ms M.
The key issue in Ms Ms complaint is she feels shes received poor service from British Gas 
when responding to the problems with her toilet. Problems arose with the toilet in April 2022 
and May 2022, and then again in July 2022 (as set out in the timeline above). The problems 
- particularly those in July 2022  have led to damage to her property from the leaks as well 
as her not having a working toilet before a new toilet was fitted (though it had to be 
uninstalled and reinstalled). Ms M says this had a significant impact on her and her family. 
For their part, British Gas say the damage that caused the leak was already present at the 
time their engineer attended, so Ms M would need to make a claim for the damage caused 
by the leak through her home insurance policy. However, they have offered £75 for the delay 
in fitting the new toilet. When responding to Ms Ms complaint to this service, theyve also 
referred to specific sections of the policy excluding cover for damage that would normally be 
covered by other insurance policies, in particular home insurance policies.  Before considering both views, I should first note Ms M agreed a quote provided by British 
Gass contractor to install a new toilet, given the problems with the existing toilet. Installing a 
new toilet isnt a regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service, as it isnt part of 
the insurance contract under the home emergency policy. That being the case, this decision 
focuses on the services provided by British Gas under the home emergency policy, how they 
responded to the leaks from the toilet over the period (April 2022 to July 2022).
In terms of the damage from the leaks, specifically in July 2022 when the leak affected the 
kitchen ceiling and stairs, British Gas point to the following exclusions under the General 
exclusions heading in the policy:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance
Your product doesnt include repairing of replacing any damage caused by extreme 
weather, flooding, escape of water, structural issues, fire or explosions  or any other 
kind of damage thats normally covered by household insurance  unless your 
product specifically includes it.
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it, for example damage caused by water leaks. Were not responsible for any 
reduction in value or damage which results from anything insured by your agreement, 
such as loss of earnings or travel expensesWere also not responsible for any 
losses incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged, or cancelled appointments
What this means is that British Gas wouldnt be responsible for the damage caused by the 
leaks at Ms Ms property unless they caused the leak (or could reasonably be held to have 
caused the leak). As the second exclusion makes clear, that includes damage (losses) 
incurred because of delayed, rearranged, or cancelled appointments. 
From what Ive seen, I cant conclude British Gas caused the problems that led the toilet to 
leak, particularly given comments about the age and design of the toilet (and Ms M agreeing 
a quote for a new toilet). And while Ms M has specifically referred to the day after the leak 
started to affect the kitchen ceiling and stairs, when she said an emergency visit didnt 
happen as promised, this would fall under the exclusion wording covering delayed, 
rearranged, or cancelled appointments.
Ive then considered the sequence of events and British Gass actions. The record of visits 
indicates British Gas attended in April 2022 (when the flush was replaced) and May 2022 
(when a valve was unjammed, and flush replaced). The record of visits indicates visits were 
made within a day or four days to fix the problems. 
As noted above, at the time of the second engineer visit in May, Ms M agreed to have the 
toilet replaced, though this hadnt happened by the time of the further problems in July. 
Turning to the problems in July, the timeline above indicates Ms M phoned British Gas but 
was told there werent any appointments until the following week. Ms M contacted British 
Gas again in the evening of the same day, and an engineer came later that evening and was 
able to temporarily stop the leak. But Ms M was woken in the night by the sound of water 
flowing. She contacted British Gas early in the morning and says she was told an engineer 
would attend as an emergency. However, an engineer didnt visit that day, despite her 
calling British Gas at regular intervals. Ms M called again the following morning and an 
engineer visited. They were able to fix the leak but advised Ms M not to use the toilet flush mechanism. Given this sequence, Ive concluded Ms M suffered a loss of expectation 
through being told a visit was to take place  but didnt until the following day. And she was 
left without a properly functioning toilet. Ill consider what British Gas needs to do to put 
things right when thinking about the overall impact of what happened on Ms M.
The next event in the timeline was the visit by an engineer four days later  an appointment 
Ms M said she cancelled as she wasnt going to be at home. Notes provided by British Gas 
indicate a new appointment (for four days after the original appointment) was made two days 
before the date of the original appointment. But it seems an engineer still attended on the 
date of the original appointment (when Ms M was at work). But the engineer wasnt able to 
communicate with a family member who lived at the property because of language issues, 
so wasnt able to carry out any work. Thinking about what this suggests, it indicates the 
original visit wasnt cancelled at the time the second appointment was scheduled. While 
communication problems can occur and events like these happen, I think they will have 
added to the impact on Ms M. Ill consider this further when addressing Ms Ms point about 
being discriminated against on the grounds of race and gender.
An engineer then attended four days later (the date of the second appointment) to fit the new 
toilet (only for another engineer to have to visit three days later to uninstall the new toilet, 
replace a pipe, and reinstall the toilet). It was only at this point were the issues fully resolved.
Taken together, Ms M was without a properly functioning toilet for over a week. I dont think 
thats acceptable and would have caused distress and inconvenience to Ms M and her family 
at the property. Ill consider this when thinking about what British Gas needs to do to put 
things right.
While Ms M feels British Gas should compensate her for loss or earnings, its not 
something our service does, even with British Gass point about the policy terms and 
conditions including a general exclusion for compensation for lost or earnings. Nor do 
I feel its appropriate to ask British Gas to refund what shes paid them from July 2022 
to date, as that would be for cover provided under the policy over that period. 
I recognise Ms M also asked to terminate her policy. But thats a decision for her to 
take as the policyholder  it isnt something this service can require. The policy terms 
and conditions set out the rights of either party (Ms M and British Gas) to cancel the 
policy and in which circumstances. Nor do I think it appropriate for British Gas to pay 
the water bill and what shed had to pay to her home insurer, as both would fall under 
the exclusion set out above for any other loss or damage.
But as Ive concluded earlier, Ms M did suffer distress and inconvenience from not having an 
emergency visit the day after the leak started affecting her property, and by being left without 
a properly functioning toilet for over a week. Ive carefully considered the impact this would 
have had on Ms M (including the indirect impact on her from the impact on family members 
living at the property). Taking all these points into consideration, I think £325 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. That would be in addition to the £75 British Gas have offered for 
the delay in fitting the new toilet.
Ive also considered what Ms M has told us about how British Gas treated her, that her 
accent may have led to her being ignored and not listened to. And discussing the outcome of 
her complaint to British Gas with them, she said they discriminated against her on the 
grounds of race and gender. 
I asked Ms M to tell us more about her experience and why she feels she was discriminated 
against and treated differently than would other customers. She made several points, 
including that she didnt feel the position she was in because of the leak had been treated as a priority or emergency by British Gas (or their contractors). And that they left her without a 
functioning toilet for about two weeks. She thought British Gas should take responsibility for 
the damage caused to her home from what happened.
I also asked British Gas to respond to the points made by Ms M. Having reviewed the points 
raised, they didnt accept what Ms M said about how shed been treated and rejected the 
view theyd discriminated against her on the grounds of race and gender.
Id want to assure Ms M Ive considered all the points shes made (and the response of 
British Gas) together with all the other information and evidence provided as part of this 
complaint. I appreciate what Ms M feels, but I should note this service cant make a finding 
on whether an act(s) or omission(s) is(are) discriminatory under the provisions of the 
Equality Act 2010, only a court can do so. But the Act is relevant to Ms Ms complaint, so Ive 
taken it into account when considering whether British Gas acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive also considered whether Ms M was treated any differently than would a policyholder of a 
different race or gender in the same circumstances. Looking at what happened, Ive not seen 
anything to indicate British Gas treated Ms M differently. Ive concluded British Gas didnt act 
fairly in the way they responded to the leak from her toilet, as Ive set out in my findings and 
conclusions above  but I havent seen anything that clearly indicates this was affected by 
her race or gender. 
As Ive said, its clear Ms M suffered distress and inconvenience from not having an 
emergency visit the day after the leak started affecting her property, and by being left without 
a properly functioning toilet for over a week. Ive considered the impact this would have had 
on Ms M (including the indirect impact on her from the impact on family members living at 
the property). Its clear the impact was significant, which is why Ive concluded a substantial 
additional amount of compensation (to that offered by British Gas) for distress and 
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. I require 
British Gas Services Limited to:
Pay Ms M £325 for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the £75 theyve offered 
for the delay in fitting the new toilet).
British Gas Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Ms M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman