DRN-3270876
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the 
premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr H purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 6 August 2019, to cover trips of up to 17 days duration 
taken in Europe. The policy started on 24 August 2019 and ended on 23 August 2020. 
Mrs and Mr H paid a total of £294.40 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
number of declared medical conditions. Theyd also purchased additional cover for winter 
sports. However, this premium is included within the total amount that Ive referred to above.
On 2 May 2020, Mrs and Mr H contacted Great Lakes to request a partial refund of their 
travel insurance premium because they said theyd been unable to travel during a large part 
of the time theyd held their policy due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr H that a refund couldnt be provided as their cooling off 
period had expired. But Mrs and Mr H werent happy with Great Lakes response to their 
refund request and complained to our service.
After Mrs and Mr H referred their complaint to us, Great Lakes informed them that it was 
prepared to offer a partial premium refund of £29.44 due to a change in its policy relating to 
annual policy travel insurance refunds. Mrs and Mr H rejected this offer. 
Mrs and Mr Hs complaint was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the unique 
and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 3 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt think Great Lakes had 
made an error in how it had dealt with Mrs and Mr Hs refund query or issued a response 
that was unfair or unreasonable because their policy ran its full term. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and confirmed that its 
partial refund offer remained available. But Mrs and Mr H didnt agree and requested an 
ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr H to receive the 
refund of the premiums they requested because: 
Cover under Mrs and Mr Hs policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance documentation they received. Im 
satisfied Mrs and Mr H were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to their 
policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
Mrs and Mr H didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of their policy until 2 
May 2020. And they didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. Even if 
they had done during their conversation on 2 May 2020, this would have been 
outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the 
relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this 
because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have 
prevented Mrs and Mr H travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was 
outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and 
conditions of Mrs and Mr Hs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs and Mr Hs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy 
started on 24 August 2019.
Mrs and Mr H were insured from 24 August 2019 for travelling on any number of trips 
within Europe of up to 17 days duration which they may have taken until the policy expired. Theyve said they didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the 
pandemic. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since 
their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr H for cancellation of any holidays 
which they had booked and were due to take from 24 August 2019 until 23 August 
2020. So, they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
Mrs and Mr H falling ill with their declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs and Mr H making a successful cancellation 
claim for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number 
of holidays, from 24 August 2019 until 23 August 2020. And its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk 
concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mrs and Mr Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great 
Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr H contacted Great 
Lakes on 2 May 2020 to request a partial refund of their policy premium. By this time, 
their policy had 114 days left to run before it expired.  
Ive already explained that, as Mrs and Mr H didnt cancel their policy at any time, it 
ran to full term until its expiry on 23 August 2020. So, it wouldnt be unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to decline to refund any of the premium Mrs and Mr H paid.
After Mrs and Mr H referred their complaint to our service, Great Lakes offered to 
resolve this complaint by refunding £29.44 or 10% of the premium they paid. This 
presents a change in Great Lakes initial proposed resolution to Mrs and Mr Hs 
complaint.
Ive seen evidence showing that the refund amount offered was based on the date 
Mrs and Mr H contacted Great Lakes to request a refund. I understand they rejected 
this offer. Had they accepted it, this would have resulted in Great Lakes cancelling 
Mrs and Mr Hs policy, which still had around 3 months left to run.
Great Lakes has confirmed that the refund it offered is still available to Mrs and Mr H 
if they wish to accept it  even though their policy ran until its expiry date. Ive 
clarified that the offer would be a cash settlement. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Great Lakes offer was fair and reasonable. 
Given that Mrs and Mr H didnt cancel their policy, Great Lakes continued to bear a 
risk until 23 August 2020. In such circumstances, I wouldnt have directed Great 
Lakes to refund any of the premium Mrs and Mr H paid. So, I think the offer Great 
Lakes made is both fair and reasonable. Great Lakes should therefore make a cash 
payment of £29.44 to Mrs and Mr H in line with its offer to resolve this complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should make a cash payment of £29.44 to Mrs and Mr 
H for the reasons outlined above.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mrs and Mr Hs complaint, 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman