DRN-3155699
The complaint
Mr W complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided loans to Mr W as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
amount Total amount 
payableLoan 
repaymentsMonthly 
repayment 
(approx) Loan status
1 24/11/2018 £250 £1,019.46 £13.07 for 78 
weeks£56.64 Paid 4/03/2019
2 14/05/2019 £250 £1,028.82 £13.19 for 78 
weeks£57.15 Paid 2/08/2019
3 09/08/2019 £250 £1,028.82 £13.19 for 78 
weeks£57.15 Debt Sold
Mr W told us that when Loans 2 Go provided the loans he already had a poor credit history, 
including an outstanding county court judgement, and he said a responsible lender shouldnt 
have lent to him. He told us that he had tried his best to pay but the high interest amount 
meant that he wasnt able to keep up the repayments.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr W brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr W with any of the loans and so he upheld the complaint and set out the steps he 
said Loans 2 Go should take to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that it had verified 
Mr Ws income each time and allowed for his monthly expenditure. So it didnt agree that 
Mr W wouldnt have had enough money to cover any seasonal variation in cost or 
unexpected expenses and it was satisfied that the loans were affordable.
.
Loans 2 Go requested that the case be referred to an ombudsman for review. The complaint 
came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
I have looked at each loan in turn and reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it 
agreed to provide these loans.
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go verified that Mr Ws minimum income was approximately £1,503 monthly. After 
looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go increased the overall amount 
Mr W had said he was spending each month and allowed for a total monthly expenditure 
figure of around £1,276. It said it had added a buffer of 10% of Mr Ws verified expenditure 
in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. Relying on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan repayment for this loan should have 
been affordable. And it didnt think that anything it saw on its credit checks suggested 
otherwise. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that the way Loans 2 Go worked out its affordability calculation 
allowed enough of a safety margin to cover variations in Mr Ws disposable income. 
Loans 2 Go hasnt explained in detail how it worked out its affordability calculation but I've 
taken into account what Loans 2 Go has said about the way it calculated income and 
expenditure. I accept that it did allow for some movement in Mr Ws income and expenditure 
by including a buffer that it worked out based on 10% of Mr Ws monthly expenses figure  
so an amount I assume of around £127. By my reckoning it looks like this would have shown 
that Mr W had around £100 spare cash left each month out of which he would need to pay 
the monthly repayments for this loan. 
I think our adjudicator was right to be concerned about this  particularly bearing in mind that 
Mr W was signing up to repay the loan for the next 18 months. I think that was a long 
enough loan term to go beyond what would be a reasonably foreseeable period to expect 
complete stability in his finances. Having so little surplus income meant that Mr W was at 
real and immediate risk of money problems if his income went down or his expenses 
increased. 
But thats not the main reason that Im planning on upholding this complaint. 
I think its fair to say that the information Loans 2 Go could see on its credit check was 
concerning as it showed clear signs that Mr W was already in serious financial difficulty.
   
Loans 2 Go could see that Mr W had an active county court judgement and defaulted 
accounts that were in debt collection  and hed been in this position for at least the last few 
years. 
Bearing in mind what Mr W had told Loans 2 Go about his income and expenditure this 
looked to be clearly at odds with what Loans 2 Go saw on its own credit checks and was a 
clear indication that Mr W hadnt yet resolved his money problems. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But Loans 2 Go 
couldve seen that Mr W still owed around £2,331 on his accounts in default, the county 
court judgement was for an amount of £926 and Mr W had already opened seven new credit 
accounts within the last 12 months. This suggests to me he was over-reliant on using credit 
to supplement his income  which bears out my concern that the disposable income figure 
Loans 2 Go worked on, suggesting a small surplus, wasnt, in reality, dependable.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its loan would 
be sustainably affordable for Mr W. 
At the very least, I think Loans 2 Go needed to do more checks to ensure it properly 
understood his financial situation before agreeing to provide this loan.
I cant see that it did this. So I cant reasonably say that Loans 2 Go made a fair lending 
decision when it provided this loan, given the information it had gathered regarding his 
money problems. Loans 2 and 3
Looking at the results of the checks Loans 2 Go carried out before approving these loan 
applications it appears that it concluded, broadly speaking, that there was no significant 
overall change in Mr Ws financial situation. So I have the same concerns about the lack of 
fairness of its lending decisions. I dont think Loans 2 Go had enough information in front of it 
to be able to be reassured that these loans would be sustainably affordable for Mr W.
And I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that its credit checks showed 
that Mr W wasnt making any inroads into his historic debt and continuing to borrow 
elsewhere  which I dont think was surprising given that its verification checks indicated that 
Mr Ws take home pay was decreasing each time he applied. By loan 2, the information 
Loans 2 Go could see showed that Mr W had 3 other active payday loans with £302 owing. 
When he applied for loan 3, it looked like the balance on his outstanding loans had gone up 
to £988.
To me, these were clear hallmarks of financial instability and Mr Ws apparently escalating 
reliance on taking out new credit were clear indicators of a person in financial difficulty. 
Also bearing in mind that the loan purpose either wasnt stated or it was clear that the loan 
would be spent (and not used for debt consolidation) I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve had 
any reason to think that its lending wouldnt simply add to Mr Ws overall indebtedness. So 
given the concerns about his financial situation that I think should have alerted Loans 2 Go 
to Mr Ws reliance on credit that he couldnt really afford, I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
provided the loans.    
The fact that he had repaid loans 1 and 2 early doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a 
way that was sustainable. I think what I've said is borne out by the payment problems Mr W 
ran into on loan 3 from the outset.
To sum up, as things stand I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve agreed to provide these loans 
given the information it had in front of it. At the very least, it needed to do more in-depth 
checks before it was safely able to say that Mr W could sustainably repay its loans  and as 
it didnt do this, I cant fairly say that its lending decisions were fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.  
 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ws complaint that he should not have been given the 
loans.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way. Ive thought about what Mr W has said 
about the interest rate. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on all these loans 
and I can appreciate that Mr W might now feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that 
the loan agreements set out reasonably clearly each time both what the interest rate was 
and how much he would have to pay if the loan ran to term. Interest could be waived if he 
closed the loan and he received a discount for early settlement on loans 1 and 2. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr W was aware he was taking high cost borrowing 
on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of 
this credit is a reason for me to award any additional redress. 
But I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide the loans to Mr W. And as Mr W 
has been further indebted with expensive loans that he shouldnt have been provided with, 
Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. So, I think Loans 
2 Go needs to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party by the due date set for responses to reach me 
so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
loans 1, 2 and 3. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay. 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman