DRN-3655557
The complaint
Mr S (through a representative) says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of 
credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr S approached Drafty for a running credit facility in July 2017. Mr S was given a
facility with a £840 credit limit  which didnt change while Mr S held the facility. 
Ms S had some problems repaying his facility and based on what Drafty has said in the final 
response letter an outstanding balance of £435.16 remains. 
Mr S was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed.  To be 
clear, Mr S was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter issued in March 2022 it explained the information it 
gathered from Mr S before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment, Mr S was likely to be able to afford it. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr S was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount on the hypothetical payment schedule outlined on 
Mr Ss credit agreement. This was calculated on the full amount of credit available being 
drawn down immediately and then repaid over a reasonable period. So, she didnt think it 
was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
The adjudicator pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility 
was affordable at the outset, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor it. Having reviewed, the 
way Mr S borrowed and repaid the facility, the adjudicator couldnt see any indicators of 
financial difficulties. She also said that Drafty extended help to Mr S by assisting him with the 
setting up of a repayment plan. 
Mr Ss representative didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision but didnt provide 
any further comments or information as to why it disagreed. 
Drafty didnt provide any further comments for consideration after the adjudicator issued her 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ss 
Drafty facility. 
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Mr S were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr S wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in the 
regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Mr S was granted a facility with Drafty with a £840 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Mr S. This 
hypothetical situation assumed that Mr S did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr S repaid what he owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Mr S done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,142.70 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £95.22.  
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr S could make monthly repayments of around £95 at an 
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ss application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information it gathered
showed that Mr S would be able to comfortably make payments of around £95 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend. Having looked everything, I also 
agree with this. 
The information provided does suggest that Mr S was asked to provide details of his 
declared income of £1,400 and declared expenditure of £525. Based on its checks Drafty calculated that Mr S had around £875 of disposable income each month in which to service 
and repay the facility. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. Although, it showed that Mr S had 
around £21,000 of existing credit spread across nine active credit accounts it didnt have any 
information as to how that amount was arrived at for example where these loans, credit 
cards or some other type of credit. But, the results showed Drafty that Mr S didnt have any 
delinquent or defaulted accounts and so this would indicate he was in a position to manage 
his repayments. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty
asked Mr S, this was Mr Ss first facility and the other information  such as Mr Ss credit 
search results, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information Mr S 
provided.
I also accept Mr Ss actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its
decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
I acknowledge that Mr Ss representative has supplied copies of his bank statements. But at 
this stage of the lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended to Drafty asking Mr S to evidence what he was declaring, or to asking 
him for his bank statements. So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably when it initially provided his with an open-ended credit facility in 
July 2017.
Monitoring the facility 
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Mr S. As Ive said above, when the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the FCA and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should 
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
But, its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ss repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought based on the way Mr S used the facility and that he only was able to 
drawdown on it for eight months then there were no signs that ought to have alerted Drafty 
that Mr S was having or likely having financial difficulties. Ive thought about this and I agree 
with the adjudicator. 
Mr S quite quickly drew up to the credit limit  he was at his limit by 2 August 2017. Mr S 
then went on to make his minimum repayments each month between August 2017 and February 2018  so at this point he was making headway into the amount he owed Drafty 
and was reducing his overall indebtedness. 
Mr S then drew down another £150 across two transactions on 9 and 22 March 2018  
which took his total outstanding balance (along with interest) to around £800. But, by now 
Mr S had only taken a total of 6 drawdowns on the facility and had shown that he was until 
this point successfully able to make payments towards the facility without the need to 
continue to reborrow. 
So, I cant see anything in the way Mr S drew down or repaid his facility that wouldve 
highlighted to Drafty that it was now unstainable for him or he was likely having financial 
difficulties. 
Finally, I can see that Mr S had some repayment problems and I can see that Drafty agreed 
a repayment plan with Mr S  to pay £30 per month which he did between May and July 
2018. No further payments were then received until it seems a third-party debt collection 
company became involved. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Drafty to either have approved the facility or 
have stepped in earlier because there wasnt anything in the way that Mr S repaid the facility 
that may have given Drafty cause for concern about the sustainability of the facility. Im 
therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
An outstanding balance does remain, and if this balance is still held by Drafty Id remind it of 
its obligation to treat Mr S fairly and with forbearance when discussing away forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman