DRN-2978320
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr M applied for an Aqua credit card. It was approved with a limit of £1200.
Mr M complains that Aqua couldnt have done enough checks  he couldnt afford the card. 
He had a lot of other debt with payday lenders. He earnt only £1800 per month, essential 
bills were £800 a month and payments to lenders were £600 per month. He asked that all 
interest and charges be refunded to him.
Aqua said that Mr M passed their credit checks. His application showed he earnt £28000 a 
year and had debts of £11700. He lived with his parents. Their research showed he had two 
previous defaults worth £3100, but these were 68 months before. There were no payday 
loans showing, but there were seven active accounts with lenders. They said theyd lent 
responsibly.
Mr M brought his account to us. Our investigator said Aqua had done enough checks for a 
modest limit of £1200 and based on the application information  the guidance says that the 
extent of checks can be proportionate to the limit asked for. She considered Mr Ms credit file 
and could see that high cost lenders had been used in the past, but most werent showing at 
the time of Mr Ms credit card application. And  there werent any missed payments 
showing.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
In other words, the higher the credit limit, the more checks that need to be done. But where 
the limit is a modest one, then the checks can be less  and I think thats the case here, as 
the limit was only £1200.
I can see that when he applied for the card, Mr M told Aqua that he earnt £28000 a year. He 
lived with his parents. Aquas research showed he had debts of £11700. But there werent 
any recent defaults  there were two for £3100 more than five years before. Otherwise, all 
payments were being made. So that looked OK. There were seven active accounts showing 
 but no borrowing. Mr Ms credit file also shows no missed payments up to the end of 2019 
 so it looked as though Mr M was meeting his commitments  so that was OK. 
But  on the other hand, I can also see from Mr Ms bank statements that he was making 
payments to payday lenders during 2019  so the information here is conflicting. Ive thought 
about this. Aqua could only make a lending decision based on the information they had 
before then (especially for a modest limit of £1200)  and their information was that there 
wasnt any payday debt when Mr M applied for the card. So  thats all this service can 
expect of Aqua. If there were signs or information that Mr M was in financial difficulty, then 
they might well have asked more questions, and asked to see bank statements or evidence 
of income and expenditure, for example  but this wasnt the case, and so I dont think we 
can expect Aqua to have looked any further in this case.
I can see that after Mr M got the card, problems arose. He missed payments and went over 
the limit. The card was suspended in September 2019. But  what Im looking at here  is 
should Aqua have given Mr M the card in the first place? And based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think that Aqua acted irresponsibly. And therefore, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman