DRN-2669424
The complaint
 Mr O complains about the way Billing Finance Ltd calculated interest on a loan.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr O acquired a vehicle using a hire purchase agreement. The agreement 
said hed borrow £9,750, which hed repay, with interest, over a term of 60 months.
The agreement said interest would be calculated at the outset of the agreement by 
multiplying the amount of credit by a flat rate of 13.47% per annum. This was equivalent to 
an annual percentage rate (APR) of 24.9%. The agreement said Mr O would pay 59 monthly 
repayments of £271.94, followed by a final repayment of £272.94. If Mr O made all his 
repayments, the total hed pay would be £16,317.10  which included interest of £6,566.40.
But in July 2020, Mr O contacted Billing Finance to ask for details of his future repayments 
and to request a settlement figure. He was told that to settle the agreement hed need to pay 
£9,857.95. This was greater than the amount Mr O had borrowed. So Mr O asked Billing 
Finance to explain what happened. Mr O wasnt satisfied with Billing Finances explanation 
and referred matters to us. 
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I explained that the loan 
agreement said interest would be calculated at the start of the agreement based on a flat 
rate of 13.47%. That interest was added to the amount of credit to work out the repayments 
Mr O needed to make. So, ordinarily, the balance of Mr Os loan would equal the remaining 
payments towards the loan and decrease in line with those repayments.
But Mr O had the right to repay the loan early. If he did this, the balance remaining would be 
reduced by a rebate, which would be calculated in line with the Consumer Credit (early 
settlement regulations 2004 (the early settlement regulations). These use an actuarial 
method to make sure the early settlement figure reflects the interest charged for the period 
Mr Os loan was open. So it takes into account the APR, how long Mr O had borrowed the 
money for, and how many repayments hed made.
I didnt propose to go into the calculation in detail. But I saw that in Mr Os case his first loan 
repayment was around two months after the start of the loan. Which meant hed be charged 
interest on the full loan amount for two months before his repayments started to reduce the 
balance. In addition, although the early settlement regulations sets a settlement date 28 
days after the notice is requested, the regulations allowed Billing Finance to defer this date 
by a further 30 days. So the settlement figure would also include the additional monthly 
instalment that fell due between the date Mr O requested the settlement figure. Taken 
together, I thought this explained why Mr Os settlement figure was greater than the amount 
Mr O had borrowed.
Mr O had said the other loans hed taken out didnt work that way. And I could see why Mr O 
thought this looked unusual. But the other loans hed mentioned had much lower rates of 
interest  - 4.75% and 5.9% - while this loan had an APR of 24.9%. This meant far more 
interest was charged on this agreement than the other loans Mr O had mentioned. It also 
meant that less of Mr Os payments went towards reducing the capital in the early months, 
when the interest charged was at its greatest. I also explained that the closing balances 
shown on Mr Os statements of account were not the same as the settlement figures 
calculated in line with the early settlement regulations.
As such, I thought the settlement figures Billing Finance had provided reflected the higher 
interest rate and the regulations that applied.
Mr O had said he wasnt happy this wasnt explained at the outset. I wasnt persuaded, 
however, that Mr O was mis-led when he entered his loan. 
I did, however, think Billing Finance could have explained more clearly what had happened. 
Billing Finance had sent Mr O an amortisation statement showing the interest and capital 
hed pay over the life of the loan. But it now said that the method used under the early 
settlement regulations to calculate settlement figures wasnt actually the same as the 
method it had used to work out this amortisation statement.
I also noted that Billing Finance had at one point told Mr O that interest was front-loaded or 
front heavy. Mr O was concerned that this implied that it would be two years before his 
repayments started to reduce the principal capital. But the early settlement regulations 
meant that the settlement figure would always reflect the interest charged during the period 
the loan had actually run for. This meant Mr O would be charged more interest towards the 
start of the loan, when the balance was higher, than towards the end, when the balance was 
lower.
In the circumstances, I thought that Billing Finance should pay Mr O £100 for the 
inconvenience and trouble its explanations had caused Mr O.
I said Id consider any further comments I received from Mr O or Billing Finance.
Mr O has replied to say he doesnt accept my findings.
He wanted me to go into more detail, so he knows how Billing Finance arrived at the 
final settlement figure, based on the amortisation schedule
He wants to know what the breakdown of his monthly repayments are between the 
interest and principal capital
He wants to know why so little of his repayments in the early months had reduced the 
final settlement figure
He asks what the point is of an amortisation schedule if this doesnt reflect the day to 
day running of the loan agreement.
He wants an explanation of why interest was charged on the full balance for the first 
two months of the agreement.
He says he wasnt told about the 30 day deferment included in the early settlement 
regulations 
He says he appreciates that loans with lower interest rates will incur lower interest. 
But the interest incurred in the settlement figure was never more than one month of 
interest  while in the case of Billing Finance this was astronomical.
Billing Finance has replied to say it has no further comments.Ive therefore looked at this again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further points Mr O has raised. But they dont change my 
conclusions. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 provides that when a customer 
repays a loan early, the outstanding balance shall be reduced by a rebate.
The rebate is the difference between the total repayments of credit that fall due for payment 
after the settlement date if early settlement did not take place and the amount given by the 
formula

=1(1+)
=1(1+)
where: 
= the amount of the ith advance of credit
= the amount of the jth repayment of credit
= the periodic rate equivalent of the APR/100
= the number of advances of credit made before the settlement date,
= the number of repayments of credit made before the settlement date,
= the time between the ith advance of credit and the settlement date, expressed in 
periods,
= the time between the jth advance of credit and the settlement, expressed in 
periods, and
 represents the sum of all the terms indicated.
This is an actuarial method designed to work out the balance outstanding on the date used 
to calculate the settlement, given the interest rate and the amount borrowed.  In line with the 
regulations, Billing Finance can defer the date for calculation of the settlement figure by 
either one month or 30 days. Billing Finance chose to defer the date by 30 days. 
In practice, the regulation means that the amount Mr O would actually repay when he settled 
the loan early is whatever the balance would have been 58 days after he requested the 
settlement figure, in line with the above formula, plus any payments that fell due before that 
day.
Or to put it another way, Mr O needed to repay the capital balance outstanding on the day  
he requested the settlement, plus around two months interest.
Mr O borrowed £9,750. He started making his repayments around 2 months after the start date of the loan. He made the first payment in April. And so when he requested the first 
settlement figure on 10 July, this would have been immediately after the payment of the 
fourth payment. At that point, the future repayments due to this loan would have been 
£15,229.64. But this must be reduced by a rebate in accordance with the formula above.
As July has 31 days, this means the date for the calculation of the settlement figure will be 
27 days after the date of the August payment  or 6 September. 
Billing Finance worked out the rebate was £5,371.69. Which left a settlement figure of 
£9,857.95.
Ive checked this, and Im satisfied this figure is consistent with the method to calculate early 
settlement set out in the regulations. To illustrate whats happening, Ive prepared a table, 
below, showing what happens to the balance of Mr Os loan during the first six months. To 
keep the maths simple, Im assuming a monthly interest rate of 1.8%, that payments are 
made at the end of each month, and that all months are the same length. 
Payment (A) Start (B) Interest (C) Payment (D) Close (E)
9,750.00 175.50 0 9,925.50
1 9,925.50 178.66 271.94 9,832.22
2 9,832.22 176.97 271.94 9,737.25
3 9,737.25 175.27 271.94 9,640.58
4 9,640.58 173.53 271.94 9,542.17
5 9,542.17 171.75 271.94 9,441.98
We can see that during the first month, February/March, Mr O didnt make a repayment. So 
hes charged interest on the full capital without any offsetting repayment. We can also see 
that immediately after the fifth payment, in August 2020, the balance was £9,442.00.
The balance on the date for the calculation of the settlement, 27 days later, includes an 
additional 27 days of interest. Ive worked out the balance to be £9,589.85. Mr O must also 
make the payment that fell due between the fourth and the fifth payment (£271.94). So the 
settlement figure will be £9,861.80. This is within £4 of the figure reached by Billing Finance 
 this small difference is caused by the simplifying assumptions Ive explained above.
Mr O has asked how we can reach the settlement figure of £9,857.95 from the amortisation 
breakdown provided previously by Billing Finance. This isnt possible. Billing Finance has 
explained that the amortisation statements are prepared using a different method to 
settlement figures  the amortisation statements are based on its own internal accounting 
model, while the settlement figures are calculated in accordance with law. 
Looking at the amortisation statement, it does look as though that theres something 
fundamentally wrong with it: in particular, the capital repayments shown on the statement 
add together to a greater amount than Mr O in fact borrowed  while the interest is less than 
the total shown on the agreement. I think this statement is wrong. But this doesnt alter my 
conclusion that the settlement figure Billing Finance reached has been calculated in line with 
the relevant regulations. 
(I note that when Mr O did in fact settle the loan, in November 2020, he was given a settlement figure of £9520.74. He requested this settlement figure on 24 November 2020  
so mid-way between the 8th and 9th repayments. This meant that the date for the calculation 
of the settlement was 21 January  and so the settlement figure is the balance on the 21 
January  around £8,976  plus the two payments that fell due in December and January. 
This means Mr O had to repay the capital balance outstanding on the day he requested the 
settlement figure in November plus the interest that would have been charged up until the 
day used to calculate the settlement figure.)
I hope this more detailed explanation of how settlement figures are calculated helps Mr O 
understand what happened to his loan. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the relatively high rate of interest compared to Mr 
Os other loans meant it took longer for his payments to make meaningful reductions to the 
balance  in the early months, nearly two thirds of Mr Os payments were just repaying the 
interest charged that month. The early settlement regulations meant that, in addition to 
repaying the balance of the loan outstanding on the date used to calculate the settlement, he 
still needed to pay any of his scheduled monthly repayments before this date. In the early 
months, this meant there was a real possibility that the settlement figure might be more than 
he borrowed: because the additional interest charged during that period would be greater 
than the reduction in the capital balance up until that point.
This is in stark contrast to the other loans Mr O has mentioned,. For example, Mr O has sent 
us details of a car loan with an annual rate of 4.75%. So the interest was not 1.8% per 
month, but just 0.3875% per month. Even at the beginning of the loan, when the interest was 
highest, over three quarters of Mr Os repayments would be applied to reduce the capital 
balance. The interest charged during the two month period for calculating the settlement 
figure would always be significantly less than the reduction in the capital balance.
For the above reasons, Im satisfied Billing Finance has calculated Mr Os settlement figure 
in line with the relevant regulations.
Ive considered Mr Os other comments. Hes questioned the purpose of the amortisation 
schedule if it cant be used to work out the settlement figure. Billing Finance has already said 
it should not have tried to explain the settlement figure using the amortisation schedule  
and I agree, given the differences between the figures shown on that schedule and those 
shown on the agreement and implied by the early settlement regulations.  illing Finance has 
explained that in response to Mr Os complaint it is now going to review and make changes 
to how it explains settlement figures in future.
Mr O also asks why interest was charged on the full balance for the first two months of the 
loan. This reflects the period between the start of the loan and his first payment. Until Mr O 
starts making his repayments, nothing would come off the principal capital.
I agree that Billing Finance could have explained what was happening better. The 
amortisation schedule, in particular, was unclear and misleading.
Im not persuaded, however, that better explanation of this would have changed Mr Os 
decision to take out this loan. To the extent that the settlement figures were high, this reflects 
the high rate of interest on the loan agreement.
In the circumstances, I think Billing Finance should pay Mr O £100 to for the inconvenience 
its explanation caused. I make no further award.
 My final decision For the reasons above, Billing Finance Limited should pay Mr O £100 for the inconvenience 
it caused. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman