DRN-1769569
 
The complaint
Mr R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
Mr R opened a credit card account with Capital One in 2004. In 2008 he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his monthly repayments on the card. The policy was added to Mr Rs credit 
card account when he phoned Capital One to activate a replacement card.
In 2010 Mr R made a successful claim on the PPI. The policy was cancelled in 2014. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says he cant remember talking to anyone about PPI, and he was never asked 
if he wanted it. He believes that it was added to his account without his knowledge. 
Hes also mentioned that he wasnt told the PPI was optional. He says he only found 
out he had the cover when he contacted Capital One to tell it he was going to have 
an operation and would be late with his payment.
 
PPI was added to Mr Rs credit card account more than four years after he opened 
the account, when Capital Ones records show that Mr R phoned it to activate the 
replacement card. So I think it would have been clear to him that he didnt need to 
have PPI in order to have the account. 
 
Mr R has told us that he thinks he activated the card using an automated phone 
process. But Im satisfied from Capital Ones internal records that the Mr R took out 
the PPI during the activation phone call. Capital One hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of the call. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that it took place so long ago. But Ive seen a copy of the call script Capital One used at the time 
when people phoned in to activate a card. It instructed the agent to gain the 
cardholders explicit consent before adding PPI to the account. Ive no particular 
reason to think that the normal process wouldnt have been followed in Mr Rs case. 
And I think its most likely that PPI was added to Mr Rs account because he agreed 
to take it.
 
Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have started to show on 
Mr Rs monthly credit card statements once hed taken the policy out. And Id have 
expected him to query this with Capital One if he hadnt agreed to the cover. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he did so.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr R would have been aware that 
the PPI was optional. And I think he decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice 
 although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
 
Mr R and Capital One agree that Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R. So 
it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. It was for Mr R to decide whether he 
wanted the cover, knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his 
monthly credit card repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
 
Mr Rs told us he would have been entitled to some sick pay from his employer at the 
time. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident or sickness. Mr R hasnt been able to provide full details of how long his 
employer would have paid him sick pay for. But based on our experience of typical 
sick pay in a range of jobs, I think its likely that the policy would potentially have paid 
out for longer than Mr R would have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr R received from his employer. 
So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
 
Mr Rs told us that he had no savings he could have used to make his credit card 
repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job. So taking everything into account, I 
think the PPI provided him with useful cover.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Mr R chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations (for example, provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
 
The policy was competitively priced and Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr R 
couldnt afford it. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it 
at any time with no further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no 
longer wanted the cover. I can see from Capital Ones records that the policy was, in 
fact, cancelled in 2014. 
 Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr R would have made a different 
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still 
have taken out the policy. So I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
 
This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr R, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman