DRN-4488157
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund two transactions made from her account 
which she says she didnt make.
What happened
In April 2023, a number of transactions were made from Ms Fs Santander account which 
she says she didnt make. Ms F says she first found out about the transactions when 
Santander sent her a text message asking if they were genuine. She then realised her debit 
cards were no longer in her purse, reported the transactions as fraudulent and asked 
Santander to refund the money she had lost.
Santander investigated and refunded some of the transactions. But it said two cash 
withdrawals had been made using Ms Fs card and PIN, and it couldnt see how someone 
else would have known Ms Fs PIN. So it didnt agree to refund these cash withdrawals. 
Ms F wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They couldnt see how someone else 
would have been able to make the cash withdrawals without Ms Fs consent, so didnt think 
Santander had acted unreasonably in refusing to refund them. Ms F disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the other transactions have already been refunded by Santander, I havent addressed 
them here and have instead focused on the cash withdrawals which havent been refunded.
Generally a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to consent to someone else 
making payments on their account.
Santander has sent us evidence which shows the cash withdrawals were made using Ms Fs 
genuine card and by entering her PIN. This means the withdrawals were correctly 
authenticated, and so I must also think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Ms F consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Ms F has said she didnt allow anyone else to use her card and has never told anyone else 
her PIN. Shes also said her PIN isnt written down anywhere, except on her phone which 
she had with her the whole time. And that she hasnt changed the PIN since it was issued, 
so it isnt a memorable or easily guessable number. But, if this is the case, I cant see how 
an unknown thief would have been able to use her PIN to make these cash withdrawals.
Ms F says she hadnt used the card for several days before the disputed transactions were 
made. But opportunistic thieves tend to try to get as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before they are detected or the source of the money is cut-off. So I think its 
unlikely a thief saw Ms F enter her PIN, stole her card, but then waited several days to try to 
use it.
Santanders evidence also shows there werent any incorrect PIN entries before the disputed 
transactions. So a thief who stole Ms Fs card would have had to correctly guess the PIN first 
time. And given the number of possible number combinations the PIN could be, I think is 
very unlikely.
I appreciate how Ms F feels about this case, but I dont think the evidence here suggests the 
payments were made by an unknown third-party. And, based on the evidence I have and in 
the absence of any other likely explanation, I think its likely she consented to the payments 
 either by making them herself or by allowing someone else to make them.
And so I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably in holding Ms F responsible for these 
cash withdrawals made from her account, or that it needs to refund these withdrawals to her.
Ms F has mentioned that Santander has been inconsistent by agreeing to refund some of 
the transactions she disputed, but not all of them. And that it blocked some transactions 
before the cash withdrawals, so knew there was fraudulent activity on her account at that 
time and shouldnt have allowed the cash withdrawals to be made.
But Santander appears to have refunded all the transactions made just using Ms Fs card, 
but not her PIN. Its said it didnt agree to refund these cash withdrawals as they were made 
using Ms Fs PIN, and it couldnt see how someone else would have been able to use this. 
So I dont think this is inconsistent and, as Ive explained above, I dont think it was 
unreasonable to decide not to refund these cash withdrawals.
The transactions that were blocked on Ms Fs account before the cash withdrawals were 
made also appear to have been blocked because her daily withdrawal limit had been 
reached, not because Santander had identified fraudulent activity on her account. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Santander to still allow the cash withdrawals to be made.
Ms F has also mentioned that disputed transactions were also made from an account she 
holds with another bank, and that bank has agreed to refund those transactions. But when 
assessing this complaint, I can only look at the actions of Santander. And, for the reasons 
Ive set out above, I dont think it has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman