DRN-3639949
The complaint
Ms R complains that Wealthify Limited didnt make changes to her investments, or contact 
her, when there was a downturn in the markets. She wants compensation for her losses, and 
for the distress shes been caused.
What happened
Ms R has a discretionary-managed stocks and shares ISA with Wealthify. She chose its 
tentative original plan. She complains that:
Shes been paying a fee for Wealthify to manage her investments, but it didnt take any 
action when there was a market downturn.
Wealthify only made changes after she contacted it.
She hasnt received the £200 reward that was advertised for transferring her cash ISA to 
Wealthify.
Wealthify is still incentivising consumers to switch to its services. She thinks this is 
unethical and unprofessional when the market is bad.
Wealthify said investment in its plan was for the longer term and that the value would go up 
and down in the short term. It said it had made adjustments to the plan and kept Ms R 
informed. It reminded Ms R of the risks involved in investment. It said markets falling can be 
a good time to invest and that it was reasonable for it to offer consumers an opportunity to 
invest with it. And it said the £200 was paid to Ms R in February 2022, around six months 
after her investment had been transferred, as agreed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Wealthify acted in line with the agreed terms for the discretionary agreement and that 
the potential for loss was inherent in risk-based investments.
Ms R didnt agree. She said, in summary, that she felt cheated. She said she was paying 
high fees and didnt receive the service she expected. And that Wealthify did nothing to 
minimise her losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint, and Ms Rs response to our 
investigators view, in less detail than the parties and in my own words. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. But I want to 
reassure Ms R that I have listened to her call with our investigator and I understand her 
strength of feeling.
Ms R has confirmed she received the £200 payment, so I dont need to comment on this 
further.
I appreciate Ms R is concerned that Wealthify continued to incentivise consumers to switch 
to its services during a market down-turn. The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to 
resolve individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. We do not perform 
the role of the industry regulator and dont have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses, to punish them, or to improve the industry. Thats the role of the financial 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So I cant comment on how, and when, 
Wealthify chooses to market its services to consumers.
I turn now to the main part of Ms Rs complaint  that she was paying Wealthify fees for a 
service which she says it didnt provide. And, specifically, that it should have made changes 
to her investment during the market downturn; and that it should have contacted her to ask if 
she wanted to encash her investment to avoid further losses.
Ms R opened a discretionary-managed ISA with Wealthify in January 2021. Following the 
completion of an attitude to risk questionnaire, Wealthify offered its Tentative Plan which 
Im satisfied aligned with Ms Rs attitude to risk. The plans aim was to prioritise limiting 
losses over high returns.
Ms R told us that she accepted the value of her investments could go down as well as up. 
Her complaint is that Wealthify didnt do enough to minimise her risk during a market 
downturn. But I find that the investment was intended to be for the medium to longer term. 
The plans key facts said:
Investing should be part of a long-term savings strategy and whilst money can be withdrawn 
at any time, investing for less than 5 years is unlikely to be appropriate for a Tentative Plan.
And the key facts included reasonably clear information to show that losses could be 
incurred in line with market conditions.
Im satisfied that Ms Rs plan was invested in line with the typical mix of investments as 
outlined in the tentative plan key facts. And that the medium to longer term objective of the 
investment meant that, whilst losses might be incurred in the short-term, the plan was 
appropriately invested with the aim to make a return over the longer term.
Ms R was free to encash her investment at any time. She says Wealthify should have 
contacted her to discuss encashing her investments and parking the cash until it was a 
suitable time to reinvest. Whilst this facility was available to Ms R, it was for her to request it. 
Her agreement with Wealthify didnt extend to it being able to give her this type of general 
investment advice. It was only responsible for managing the money shed invested with it in 
line with the agreed plan. 
Ms R says Wealthify made changes to her plan after she contacted it. Im satisfied that 
Wealthify made changes to Ms Rs plan to ensure it remained within the agreed investments 
for the tentative plan. But that this was part of its ongoing service and obligations, rather than 
in response to Ms Rs phone call.
Overall, I dont find that Wealthify treated Ms R unreasonably or unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman