DRN-1296731
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about how he was dealt with when he contacted MBNA Limited to say he 
was in financial difficulties with his credit card.
What happened
Mr R contacted MBNA to tell them that he was in financial difficulties. He said that although 
he had previously kept up to date on his credit card payments, he would no longer be able to 
do so because of a number of changes in his personal circumstances. He said that he 
wanted to reach an agreement with MBNA on how he would pay his credit card bill until he 
was able to sell his house to pay off his debts.
MBNA went through Mr Rs income and expenditure and told him that it couldnt set up a 
payment plan as Mr Rs expenditure was higher than his income. It told him he no longer 
needed to make payments, but that he could do so if he wanted to. It said that if he didnt 
make the minimum payment on his credit card, after seven months his account would 
default, which would show on his credit file.
MBNA defaulted Mr Rs account. Mr R complained to MBNA and said that he was unhappy 
that a default had been applied to his credit file because he had made an agreement to pay 
the debt in full. MBNA replied and said that it had recognised that Mr R was in financial 
difficulty and frozen interest and fees on his credit card. It said that the assistance it had 
provided over the period that Mr R had been in contact was correct. MBNA also confirmed 
that it had advised him of changes to its terms and conditions because it had aligned its 
processes with the banking group it was now part of.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
MBNA had appropriately applied the default to Mr Rs account.
As Mr R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is unhappy that despite promptly informing MBNA of his financial difficulties his credit 
card account still defaulted. I need to consider whether MBNA responded appropriately to Mr 
Rs financial difficulties and whether it was appropriate to default Mr Rs account when it did.
Where someone says that they are in financial difficulties, a financial business should deal 
with this positively and sympathetically. In Mr Rs case, Ive listened to the phone call where 
he told MBNA about his financial difficulties. He explained the issues and that he planned to 
sell his house to meet his financial commitments. MBNA carried out an assessment of Mr 
Rs income and expenditure and told Mr R that the assessment showed he couldnt afford to 
make payments to the account at that time. 
MBNA said it would stop the interest and fees and that, although a minimum payment would 
continue to be generated each month, it wasnt expecting him to pay anything. As a result, 
his account would fall into arrears, which would be reflected on his credit file. It said that it 
wasnt possible to set up a payment plan because the assessment showed that Mr R 
couldnt afford this, but he could make token payments if he had funds available. The call 
handler then read a script that said Mr Rs account would default after seven missed 
payments, but that he could make a partial settlement or pay a lump sum.
Mr R then said that he didnt know what to do going forward and asked if he still needed to 
make payments. The call handler said MBNA would cancel the direct debit, this would mean 
the account would go into arrears and it would show as a missed payment unless at least 
the minimum payment was made. Mr R said that he didnt want this to affect his credit score. 
The call handler explained what would show on his credit file and offered to provide the 
details of debt organisations that could help him. Mr R said he didnt want to go down that 
route.
Ive thought about this carefully. When Mr R explained his situation to MBNA, it took the 
actions that I would expect it to. It assessed Mr Rs financial position and concluded that he 
couldnt afford to make payments. It then stopped the interest and charges and said that Mr 
R didnt need to make payments unless he felt able to do so. MBNA also offered to give Mr 
R details of other financial and debt advice organisations that could help him, but Mr R said 
that he didnt want those details. So, I think that MBNA did deal with Mr R in a positive and 
sympathetic manner. However, the issue is whether should MBNA have done more.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations, the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, known as 
CONC, say that a finance provider shouldnt refuse a reasonable repayment proposal 
made by a borrower. The issue here though is that Mr R didnt make a specific offer to pay. 
During the phone call, he said that he planned to sell his house to meet his financial 
commitments, although it wasnt currently on the market. But, as the house hadnt been sold, 
I dont think there was any action that MBNA could reasonably have taken on that 
information, except for noting Mr Rs intention. The regulations also explicitly say that a 
finance provider cant pressurise someone to sell their home to pay their debts, so MBNA 
was limited in how it could respond to Mr R. But beyond Mr R explaining about selling his 
home, he didnt make an offer to pay, so MBNA had no basis on which to try and enter into 
an agreement.
During the phone call, on several occasions, Mr R indicated that he wanted to understand 
what to do about payments. I think the problem here is that it was difficult for MBNA to say 
much more than it did  which was that there was no requirement to pay, that Mr R could 
make payments if he wanted to and that if he continued not to make payments that his 
account would default. MBNA did tell Mr R that he could make payments if he was able to. 
But it couldnt actively encourage Mr R to make specific payments. If it had done so, this 
could have been viewed as MBNA putting pressure on Mr R to make payments despite the 
assessment showing that he couldnt afford to do so.
I should be clear though, having listened to the phone call, I can see why Mr R might have 
been confused by what he should do following the phone call, including about making 
payments. My understanding of the phone call is that Mr R approached MBNA to proactively 
explain his financial difficulties and agree a way forward. MBNA took action about the 
immediate issue by doing things like stopping the interest, but didnt agree anything beyond 
that. However, given Mr Rs financial position, in my view, all that MBNA could do was stop 
the debt from increasing and explain the possible consequences to Mr R of not making 
payments, which it did. Mr R then needed to decide for himself, possibly in discussion with 
others, including debt organisations, what the best way to manage his overall financial 
position was.Although I can understand that Mr R thinks that MBNA could have done more, and he has 
said that other finance providers did, in reality, I think it was difficult for it to do so. This is 
because any agreement on making a payment really needed to come from Mr R as MBNA 
wasnt in a position to try and make a payment agreement. This was because the 
assessment indicated that Mr R couldnt afford to make any payments.
Ive also thought about whether MBNA should have defaulted Mr Rs account. A 
consequence of not making payments on a credit card over a period of time is that an 
account will usually be defaulted. Given Mr R didnt make any payments on the account, I 
think that it was reasonable that MBNA defaulted the account. The Information 
Commissioners Office has said that it would normally expect a default to be registered when 
a consumer is between three and six months behind with payments. This is what happened 
with Mr R. However, I note that the account defaulted earlier than Mr R was originally told 
that it would. 
When Mr R first spoke to MBNA he was told that the account would default after seven 
missed payments. But it actually defaulted earlier than this. I asked MBNA why this 
happened and it said that when it became part of a new banking group it changed its terms 
and conditions so they were in line with the wider group. This meant that the policy for 
defaulting an account changed from being after seven missed payments to between three to 
six months. 
I can see that Mr R was told that MBNAs terms and conditions had changed and that a copy 
was sent to him. However, having read these, I cant find any reference to a change in the 
timings of when an account would default. So I havent seen evidence that Mr R was actually 
aware of this.
 
Ive thought about whether this made any difference though and I dont think it did. This is 
because MBNA sent Mr R a notice of default that told him his account would default, when 
this would happen and how he could avoid this. Mr R says that he doesnt remember 
receiving this notice and that if he had, he would have taken action. Ive read the notice and 
can see that it was sent to the correct address and once it was sent, it wasnt within MBNAs 
control whether Mr R received it. So I dont think it is MBNAs fault if Mr R didnt receive the 
notice and related letters about his account. 
Im also aware that even if the default hadnt happened until the seventh missed payment 
that Mr R still wasnt in a position to pay off the debt. This was because his house hadnt 
sold by that point and so he didnt have the money to do so. This meant that his account 
would have defaulted anyway, just slightly later than it did. So, thinking about the 
circumstances of the default, I think that it was reasonable for MBNA to default the account 
and to do so when it did, even though this was earlier than Mr R was first advised.
Ive thought about all of the above and am sympathetic to Mr Rs position. I can see that he 
proactively contacted MBNA when he realised that he had financial difficulties. But I think 
that MBNA responded appropriately to Mr Rs difficulties. Given that the assessment showed 
that Mr R was unable to make any payments, MBNA had limited options available on what it 
could do to help Mr R but, in my view, it took appropriate action. As part of that, it told Mr R 
that he could make payments, but I dont think it would be fair for me to say that it should 
have gone further because this could have been seen as MBNA putting pressure on Mr R to 
make payments, which it wouldnt have been fair to do. So, on that basis, although I know 
this will disappoint Mr R, I dont uphold this complaint or require MBNA to do anything 
further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman