DRN-1904720
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B were in their 60s, had no mortgage, liabilities or financial dependents, 
and were retired with joint pension income of just over £1000 per month. In total, they had 
just under £159,000 in accessible cash deposit accounts and Mr B also owned shares worth 
£30,000. They were seeking to generate additional income from some of their money and 
were duly advised to invest £29,000, split between two Stocks and Shares ISAs and a 
Collective Investment Plan (CIP). The whole amount was invested in the Corporate Bond 
Fund.
Halifax responded to a complaint from the CMC in 2019 to say that it felt the advice had 
been suitable. It noted that Mr and Mrs B had been looking for an investment to provide 
income, which this did, while matching their documented cautious/medium attitude to risk. It 
said that because Mr and Mrs B's money had, prior to the advice, been in shares and cash, 
the use of corporate bonds added diversity to their portfolio. 
The complaint was then referred to this service. Our investigator considered the overall 
suitability of the recommendation and concluded that Halifax had acted correctly. He said Mr 
and Mrs B's attitude to risk appeared to have been assessed reasonably, taking into account 
their differing investment experience. The investigator felt the recommended fund was 
consistent with their attitude to risk and noted that the new investment represented only 18% 
of their total money and left them with just over 30% in total invested, with a significant 
amount still held in cash. 
Mr and Mrs B's CMC didn't accept the investigator's view. It said it wasn't acceptable to 
invest 100% into a single asset class, particularly via a high-cost fund, and that Government 
bonds would've been more suitable. The investigator responded to reiterate that the 
recommended investment had balanced Mr and Mrs B's portfolio, adding diversity to their 
existing share and cash holdings. The CMC remained of the view that the recommendation 
had lacked diversity and also pointed to the Financial Conduct Authority's concerns 
about 'closet tracker' funds for which high fees were charged when there was no real active 
management. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I think the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs B was a generally 
suitable means by which to meet their requirement to invest at a cautious level to generate a 
regular income.
I understand the concerns about a potential lack of diversity given that the whole £29,000 
was invested into one fund, focussing on one asset class. But, on balance, in the context of 
Mr and Mrs B's overall portfolio, their investment experience and the relatively small 
proportion of their money committed to this fund, I don't think it was an unsuitable way for 
them to generate their desired income. According the fund factsheet the fund's 
objective was to provide income from a diversified portfolio of interest-bearing securities. 
In respect of the CMC's point about alternative lower-cost funds, clearly there will have been 
other ways in which Mr and Mrs B's objectives could've been met. But the fact that the 
adviser may not have chosen to recommend a cheaper alternative, doesn't in my view mean 
he necessarily acted incorrectly. I've seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B weren't 
provided with information about the costs associated with the investment by way of the key 
facts document and illustration. The key facts document explained the costs and showed, to 
a degree at least, how they compared with other funds.
In summary, I'm satisfied that the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs B was suitable and 
that there's nothing to suggest that the adviser failed to act with skill and care.
It would be reasonable to expect a competent adviser to take note of any relevant current 
guidance issued by the regulator, but I've not seen that the adviser failed to do so here. I 
make no comment on the status of the fund in respect of the FCA's review of 'closet trackers' 
as it's not my role to do so. But I think it's worth noting that this review was prompted by 
more wide-ranging work published in 2016, many years after the advice was provided to Mr 
and Mrs B.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman