DRN-2194613
The complaint
Ms T complains that Santander loaded a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) 
marker against her. And shed like the marker removed. 
What happened
On the 25 July 2018 Ms T received a payment of £2,100 into her account. On the same day 
she withdrew £1,900 from a Santander branch and then £200 from a local ATM. 
Santander later received a report from another bank which informed them that Ms T had 
received fraudulent funds into her account. 
 
On the 27 July 2018 Santander closed Ms Ts account and decided to apply a category 6 
CIFAS marker for Misuse of Facility on her record. 
Ms T complained to Santander about the fraud marker. Santander didnt uphold her 
complaint and said that the payment was conformed as fraudulent funds and it was fair for 
them to load the marker. 
Ms T didnt agree with Santanders decision  so complained to our service. Ms T explained 
that at the time of the fraudulent transfer she was living in a hostel and was approached by 
residents there to transfer money into her account. Ms T said that she was vulnerable 
because of deteriorating mental health, her lack of income at the time and bullying from the 
hostel residents. She also explained they offered to pay her some money  which would help 
her pay her bills  and wouldnt bully or isolate her if she allowed use of her account. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint. But they didnt ask Santander to 
remove the CIFAS marker. They concluded that Santander had enough evidence to load the 
CIFAS marker. 
Ms T didnt accept our investigators opinion.
 
As Ms T didnt agree with our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And In doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
In order to file a Misuse of Facility marker Santander arent required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Ms T is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show that 
there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Ms Ts account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Ms T was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. 
On considering this Im satisfied that Santander have enough evidence to record the CIFAS 
marker. I say this because:
- Santander have provided evidence that Ms T received fraudulent funds into her 
account. 
- Ive seen evidence, and Ms T accepts this is the case, that on the same day she 
withdrew £1,900 and £200 in separate transactions. 
- Ms T has explained that she agreed to receive fraudulent funds into her account  in 
return for payment to help with her bills. But shes also explained that she was 
experiencing mental health problems, other hostel residents were bullying her and 
she was vulnerable at the time. Ive considered whether this indicates that Ms T 
wasnt deliberately dishonest in her actions when agreeing to accept money into her 
account. But I dont think Ms Ts vulnerability at the time changes whether she knew 
or thought the funds might be fraudulent. One of the reasons Ms T explained that she 
agreed to accept money into her account was because she was struggling financially 
at the time. I think its clear Ms T was in a very difficult situation. But Im satisfied its 
more likely than not she knew the money coming into her account was fraudulent.
- Ms T has explained that after receiving the funds into her account she was driven to 
a branch and threatened to hand over the funds. Im not sure exactly what Ms T is 
referring to here  and whether she expected to receive all of the funds that had been 
credited into her account or only part of the funds  but I think Ms Ts description of 
what happened indicates she expected to receive some of the funds. And Id argue 
this shows on balance she was complicit in the fraud. 
Ms T said shed be willing to give Santander £200 back, which is the amount she says was 
fraudulently taken from her account. Id question why Ms T is willing to return this when she 
seems to be suggesting she hasnt received any of the fraudulent money. Even if Ms T is 
willing to return part of the fraudulent funds this doesnt change whether I believe that 
Santander were fair to load a CIFAS marker on Ms Ts record. What I need to consider here 
is whether I believe Santander have enough evidence to show a financial crime was 
committed and to confidently report Ms Ts conduct to the police. And Im satisfied they do.
I realise this will be disappointing to Ms T but I wont be asking Santander to remove the 
CIFAS marker. 
My final decision
Mr final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman