DRN-3761265
The complaint
Mr B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account Tesco Bank provided. The account was 
opened in April 2014. Mr B was given an initial credit limit of £1,300. This limit was increased 
twice; to £2,300 in November 2016 and to £3,300 in February 2018. (I am using the dates 
Tesco Bank provided us). 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought that Tesco Bank ought to have 
realised Mr B simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the time it 
offered the credit limit increase of £2,300 to him in November 2016. Tesco Bank disagreed 
with our adjudicator, so the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Tesco Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Tesco Bank should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the initial credit limit on the account was not an example of 
irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that assessment and Mr B has not raised any 
objection to those findings. I have reviewed the case in its entirety and have reached the 
same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I havent seen anything to make 
me think Tesco Bank should have been concerned about Mr Bs ability to afford the initial 
credit limit. In the absence of any argument about that I will turn to the increase of November 
2016. 
Tesco Bank has not been able to provide detail of the checks it performed in 2016. In view of 
that, and considering all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think Tesco Bank made proportionate checks at that time. But that doesnt mean 
the complaint should be upheld automatically. I must have some thought for what Tesco 
Bank would have seen had it completed proportionate checks. 
It isnt possible to determine with certainty what proportionate checks would have shown 
Tesco Bank in practice as I dont know what checks they would have decided to carry out if 
they had their time again. As a result, what Im considering here is the likelihood of 
reasonable and proportionate checks showing Tesco Bank that Mr B would have been able 
to sustainably repay the credit in question over a reasonable period of time. And for that 
reason, it is necessary to now consider information that Tesco Bank may not have 
considered at the time.
Our adjudicator and Tesco Bank have discussed Mr Bs income in relation to the notional 
expenditure calculation Tesco Bank used at the time of the lending. But Mr B has provided a 
credit report, bank statements and communications from two short term lenders who were 
arranging repayment plans with Mr B earlier in 2016. And these reduce my need to consider 
notional expenditure. 
The bank statements show that Mr Bs income was paid weekly and varied from week to 
week. They also show that the income was modest. The bank statements also show that Mr 
Bs current account was continually overdrawn in 2016. The credit report shows that Mr B 
had three credit cards and an overdraft and that all three were being ran up the maximum 
credit limit. It also shows that Mr B had over £5,000 in debt. This has to be considered a 
significant amount of credit for someone whose income was so modest. I have been 
provided with no evidence that suggests that Mr B was making any headway in repaying the 
borrowing he already had.
And in saying that I have also had thought for the communications Mr B has shown us from 
two short term lenders earlier in 2016. They suggest he was already experiencing financial 
difficulty. I say that because the lenders were making arrangements for repayment plans for 
Mr B. Mr B was using all the credit he had and was not always repaying it well in 2016. 
 
So, the overall financial picture suggests that proportionate checks should have shown a 
cause for concern that Mr B could not afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable 
manner. And I think this information should have been sufficient to alert Tesco Bank that 
there was a point at which they should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful such that they shouldnt have increased Mr Bs credit 
limits. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit limits could 
have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds available 
to meet his regular outgoings. It follows that I think that Mr B lost out because Tesco Bank provided him with further credit 
from November 2016 onwards. In my view, Tesco Banks actions unfairly prolonged Mr Bs 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting her into further debt. 
It follows that Tesco Bank should put things right.
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should:
Rework Mr Bs account to ensure that from the time of the credit limit increase 
to £2,300 (November 2016) onwards interest is only charged on balances up to 
the total credit limit of £1,300, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Tesco Bank should contact Mr B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr B has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 
November 2016 onwards for his account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Tesco 
Bank should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file from 
November 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco 
Bank must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman