DRN-3920754
Complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with him. Hes said that the agreement was unaffordable and based on an 
assessment which relied on estimates of his earnings as he was self-employed. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Moneybarn is pursuing him for an outstanding debt even though 
the car was returned.  
Background
In March 2020, Moneybarn provided Mr S with the finance to purchase a used car. The cash 
price of the vehicle Mr S purchased was £7,495.00, a deposit of £884 (which I understand 
was made up from Mr S part exchanging his previous vehicle) was paid and Moneybarn lent 
the remaining £6,611.00 to Mr S. The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £6,176.07, 
and the total amount to be repaid of £12,787.07 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of just over £215. 
In March 2022, after Mr S had already exercised the Voluntary Termination option in the 
conditional-sale agreement, Mr S complained that the finance was unaffordable and so 
should never have been provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that 
its checks confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly when entering into the agreement but she 
also thought that it needed to reduce the outstanding amount Mr S had left to pay. So she 
recommended that Mr S complaint should be partially upheld. 
Moneybarn disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for review.  
My provisional decision of 20 December 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 24 June 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary 
of my findings. 
I started by looking at Moneybarns decision to lend to Mr S.
I explained that weve set out how we handle complaints about irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending on our website. And that I used this approach to help me decide this 
part of Mr S complaint. 
I then went on to confirm that Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this meant was that Moneybarn needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr S 
before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn said it agreed to Mr S application after he provided the details of his monthly 
income. It went on to say that it also carried out credit searches on Mr S which did show a 
couple of defaulted accounts and some outstanding balances which were being repaid. But 
when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr S living expenses were deducted 
from his monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand,     
Mr S said the payments to his agreement were unaffordable and there was no way he was 
going to be able to maintain them.
I thought about what Mr S and Moneybarn said. 
The first thing for me was that much like our investigator, I didnt think that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out went far enough. In particular, I didnt think it was reasonable to rely 
on an estimate of Mr S living costs given there was some adverse information on his credit 
file, even if payments were being made to the defaulted accounts. 
As I thought that Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, I would have normally gone 
on to think about what Moneybarn would more likely than have seen had it obtained further 
information from Mr S. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount 
of the monthly payment, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr S regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit 
commitments. 
However, the limited information Mr S has provided us with didnt clearly show that when his 
committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his 
monthly income, he didnt have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. I did appreciate that Mr S was unhappy that 
estimates of his earnings were used for Moneybarns assessment. But given Mr S was self-
employed at the time, I didnt think that using an estimate here was unreasonable  
especially as I hadnt been provided with anything to suggest that the estimate Moneybarn 
arrived was wholly out of kilter. 
Furthermore, I thought that the real reason Mr S for inability to make his payments to this 
agreement was because he ended up being unable to work as a result of the pandemic. I 
didnt think anyone could reasonably have foreseen the effect that the pandemic would have, 
in advance of it  and therefore I didnt think that I could reasonably say that Moneybarn ought 
to have realised that this would have impact on Mr S finances in the way that it did. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I didnt think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Mr S did go far enough, I 
was satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have stopped 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. This left me 
intending to conclude that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Mr S when it agreed to 
provide the funds for him to purchase his vehicle.I then went on to consider that Mr S was also unhappy at the amount Moneybarn was asking 
him to pay even though he exercised the voluntary termination option on his agreement.
I started this section of my provisional decision by explaining that a customer doesnt have 
an automatic right to an interest rebate in the event that they return a car and it is 
subsequently sold. So while Mr S believed that he shouldnt owe anything further on his 
agreement because the car was returned, it didnt automatically follow that this was the 
case. 
Nonetheless, I did go on to look at whether Moneybarn ought to have done more to help         
Mr S given he said he couldnt afford to repay the outstanding balance. I saw that Mr S got in 
touch with Moneybarn in February 2022 asking whether it would be prepared to refinance his 
agreement as he wished to purchase a 7 seater vehicle. This was the first time Mr S got in 
contact with Moneybarn to enquire about the possibility of settling his existing agreement. 
But I couldnt see that Mr S ever told Moneybarn that he wanted to end his agreement 
because he was struggling to make his payments, this was something that he first 
mentioned as part of his complaint. So I didnt think that Moneybarn acted unfairly when 
presenting Mr S options or when treating his request as a voluntary termination of the 
agreement.
However, Moneybarn had since become aware that during the course of this complaint Mr S 
said that his inability to repay was down to ongoing financial difficulties. And once a lender is 
told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect it to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, Id 
expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and then 
assess the most appropriate way to move forward.
As I understood it, Moneybarn tried to get Mr S to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment to ascertain what if anything he was able to pay towards the amount 
outstanding. I was satisfied that this represented a reasonable first step to what Mr S said 
about his circumstances and Moneybarn did try to find an appropriate way of moving 
forward. 
However, as far as I could see, Mr S hadnt engaged with the process - instead he refused to 
provide the required information. And, in those circumstances, it was difficult for me to say 
that Moneybarn was failing to exercise forbearance and due consideration or that it needed 
to take any further action in relation to the outstanding balance when Mr S was refusing to 
comply with reasonable requests. 
As this was the case, I thought that Moneybarn had reacted fairly and reasonably to what   
Mr S said about his financial circumstances and I wasnt minded to uphold this part of Mr S 
complaint either.
So overall and having carefully considered everything Mr S had said, I was left minded to 
conclude that Moneybarn hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him either in relation 
to its initial decision to lend, or seeking payment of the outstanding balance. And this meant 
that I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision or ask for any additional time to do so.
Mr S didnt provide anything further or request any additional time to do so either.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr S 
complaint. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So I remain satisfied that Moneybarn didnt treat Mr S unfairly or unreasonably either in 
relation to its initial decision to lend, or seeking payment of the outstanding balance. And Im 
not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr S. But 
I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 20 December 2022, 
Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman