DRN-1302682
 
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt properly repair her 
car after she made a vandalism claim under her car insurance policy. Miss G was also 
unhappy that the approved repairer (AR) didnt provide a courtesy car for the duration of 
repairs.
What happened
Miss G reported damage to her car to the insurer, Admiral in September 2018. She said 
bricks had been thrown at her car and caused damage to both wing mirrors and the front 
windscreen. Pictures provided by Miss G show broken bricks were found as far as the other 
side of the road from the car.
In October 2018 Admiral arranged for Miss Gs vandalised car to be repaired at an AR. Miss 
Gs car was repaired and returned to her a week later. 
In January 2019 Miss G complained to Admiral. She was unhappy that shed had to contact 
the AR several times while her car was being repaired as she wanted a courtesy car. But the 
AR failed to provide one. Miss G said this caused her inconvenience for a week and it took 
her longer to get to work and back. She said shed also been trying to resolve a complaint 
with the AR about dent damage in two areas to her car which hadnt been repaired. Miss G 
said this had been caused when it was vandalised. Miss G said the windscreen showed 
signs of condensation since it had been replaced. 
Admiral said Miss G should have been provided with a courtesy car. It paid her £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £70 for loss of use for a week.
Admiral arranged for an Independent Assessor (IA) to inspect Miss Gs car. In February 
2019 the IA reported that the condensation was caused by a build up of excessive moisture 
in the cabin.  He suggested a water test be carried out to assure Miss G there was no leak.
The IA spoke to the AR who was convinced the dents werent there when they repaired the 
car and returned it to Miss G. The IA reported that both dents are quite visual. He thought it 
possible the AR might miss one of them, but not two.   As three months had passed between 
Miss G collecting her car and raising her complaint, the IA noted her car had travelled a 
further 3,000 miles during this time. So he concluded that the dents werent incident related.
The IA said that  had the dents been recorded at the time  they would have been accepted 
under the vandalism claim.  
Miss G brought her complaint to us. She provided evidence of calls she made to the AR in 
October 2018. 
Our investigator thought that it was most likely that a call Miss G made to the AR - on the 
day her car was returned to her - was to discuss her complaint that the dents hadnt been 
repaired. And so it followed that the AR should have contacted Admiral to discuss Miss Gs 
concerns. But it hadnt done this. 
Although three months had passed before Miss G raised her concerns with Admiral, the 
investigator thought Admiral would have most likely authorised repairs to the dents  if the 
AR had discussed Miss Gs concerns with it. As the IA said that if the dents had been 
recorded at the time they would have been included in the vandalism claim, the investigator 
recommended Admiral make arrangements for the dents to be repaired.
Miss G accepted the investigators findings. Admiral didnt agree. It said the evidence shows 
Miss G called the AR after closing time in October 2018 following the return of her car. 
Theres no evidence she discussed her concerns with anyone and didnt contact Admiral for 
three months. 
Admiral says the IA reported that it wasnt likely for the AR to miss two dents to the car. So it 
says it dealt with Miss Gs complaint reasonably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ive set out Miss Gs complaints under headings below.
Courtesy car
Miss Gs car went to the AR for repair on 1 October 2018. Her mobile phone records show 
she made three calls to the AR that day, one on 2 October 2018 and two on 10 October 
2018  when her car was returned. Miss G says she and her brother called the AR several 
times waiting for a courtesy car but didnt get a reply. Miss G said she had to take public 
transport and cancel plans for a week.
The AR told Admiral it called Miss G on 3 October 2018 as a courtesy car was then 
available. But it wasnt able to speak to Miss G and she didnt call back. By the time Miss G 
contacted Admiral on 8 October 2018, her car was ready for collection. 
Admiral upheld Miss Gs complaint as it said she should have had use of a courtesy car. It 
paid her £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also paid £70 for loss of use. As 
this is in line with awards we give for similar circumstances, I think Admiral acted reasonably 
here. 
Dent damage to Miss Gs car
I think this is a finely balanced case. But I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to meet 
the claim for the dent damage under the vandalism claim. Ill explain why. 
The IA took photos of the two dents.  His findings appear to be based on what the AR told 
him and how likely it is that the AR would have missed the dents. He concluded that this 
damage must have happened after repair. 
Admirals notes show that Miss G didnt report the dent damage when she reported the 
damage to the windscreen and wing mirrors. But from the photos provided by Miss G taken 
shortly after the incident, I think its more likely than not that the dents could have been 
caused at the same time as the damage to both wing mirrors and the windscreen. 
I havent seen a report from the AR or photos (if any were taken) when they received 
Miss Gs car. 
I think its very likely that Miss G spoke to somebody at the AR at 5:34pm on the day her car 
was returned to her  even though Admiral says the garage would have been closed. I say 
this because the duration of the call according to her phone bill was over three minutes long. Its difficult to conclude there was any other reason for Miss Gs call. This was one of two 
calls Miss G made to them that day. So on balance, I think its more likely than not that she 
contacted the AR as she was unhappy about the repairs to her car. Even if the duration of 
the call was to leave a message, theres no record of the AR contacting Admiral following 
Miss Gs call. 
Over three months had passed when Miss G contacted Admiral in January 2019. By this 
time Miss Gs car had travelled 3,000 miles. Miss G says that her brother was also in contact 
with the AR during this time trying to resolve the complaint. She hasnt provided evidence by 
way of proof of his calls. But the IA reported that the AR wouldnt be prepared to carry out 
further work on Miss Gs car due to previous communication and concerns. This suggests to 
me that the AR was aware of dissatisfaction from Miss G and her brother about the repairs. 
But it seems Admiral wasnt made aware of this until Miss G contacted it in January 2019. 
The IA said:
due to the incident details (vandalism) acceptance of a dent to the gutter rail and 
roof would have been authorised and accepted without question.
So taking everything into account, I think a fair outcome is for Admiral to arrange for the 
dents to Miss Gs car to the roof and gutter rail to be repaired as part of the vandalism claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to deal with Miss Gs claim for dent damage to the roof and gutter rail under the 
vandalism claim from July 2019.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman