DRN-1873434
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 with a 
credit card. Miss A says American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss A applied for her credit card and PPI via a postal application. Ive seen a copy of Miss 
As application form from 1999 and in it, customers had to tick a box to take PPI. There was 
nothing on this form indicating customers had to tick this box. On Miss As form the box to 
take PPI has been ticked and shes signed the form. 
I understand Miss A says she relied on AmExs recommendations when applying for her 
credit card and PPI. But AmEx says this was a postal application she completed herself. In 
any event, I still wouldve expected her to have looked over the form before signing it. And 
PPI is set out under a separate section and a box has been ticked requesting cover. 
So based on what Ive seen, although Ive thought carefully about what Miss A has said, I 
think its more likely AmEx made it clear Miss A didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think AmEx recommended the PPI to Miss A so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss A got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.  
The information AmEx gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
There was no information about the cover or cost on the credit card application form. But 
Miss A was referred to a leaflet that included the terms and conditions of the policy. I think 
its unlikely she would have agreed to take out the PPI without some understanding of what it 
was. And I think its unlikely she thought she wouldnt have to pay anything for the cover it 
provided. 
So I think she chose to take out the PPI - and it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the policy and 
it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - 
so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.
Miss A told us she had good sick pay provided by her employer and a few months of savings 
to help her make her repayments should she have found herself unexpectedly out of work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 24 months if she was unable 
to work because of illness or injury. And it also wouldve provided up to 24 months of cover 
for unemployment. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means AmEx doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But AmEx has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
AmEx got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A about that. Because AmEx didnt tell Miss A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, AmEx has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services Europe Limited plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But American Express Services Europe Limited plc does have to pay back to Miss A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman