DRN-1188649
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2008 Mrs F took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, she took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which included PPI cover.
Mrs F paid a monthly premium for the PPI. It covered her monthly mortgage payments 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. The total monthly benefit was around £539. If 
Mrs F had made a successful claim on the policy it would have paid the monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer has copies of all the documents that 
Mrs F signed when she took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think that's 
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place so many years ago. 
 
Ive taken into account what we know about how Halifax sold these policies around 
this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance, I'm satisfied 
that the paperwork in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy was 
optional. And I think Mrs F would have been asked which elements of the TMPP she 
wanted to take, after discussion with Halifax. And shed have been asked for her 
consent to the cover. I also note that the letter Halifax sent Mrs F with her 
TMPP schedule after she took out the plan thanked her for "choosing optional 
Mortgage Repayments Cover" (PPI).
 
So with the limited information I have available to me I think its more likely that 
Mrs F knew the policy was optional and that she decided to buy it, knowing she had a choice. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs F. This means it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for her. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
I've seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 
Mrs F has told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. But the policy would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats longer than she's told us 
shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mrs F received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs F has mentioned that she had private health insurance at the 
time. But thats a different sort of insurance, and would have paid out in different 
circumstances from the PPI. So I dont think the fact that Mrs F had private health 
insurance meant that she didnt need PPI. 
 
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mrs Fs home, and the consequences of not keeping up 
with her mortgage payments could have been serious. So I think the PPI would have 
given her valuable peace of mind. 
 
Its possible that Halifax could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think that 
Mrs F couldnt afford it. So Im not convinced that better information about the cost of 
the policy would have put Mrs F off taking it out. 
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for 
example, unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mrs F would have 
been affected by any of these. 
So taking everything into account, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman