DRN-3495576
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund several transactions that he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr M explained that he noticed a large number of transactions to an online gaming merchant 
Ill refer to as J. Mr M didnt recognise those payments and contacted Santander about them.
Mr M asked for a refund which prompted Santander to look into the matter. Santander told 
Mr M to contact J himself to check what account was connected to the payments. That was 
because Mr M had made an undisputed payment to J about a month prior to the disputed 
transactions starting.
Mr M contacted J and asked them about the payments, but they wouldnt disclose anything 
to him as he wasnt an account holder. Santander declined to refund Mr M, believing hed 
authorised the payments. Mr M complained to Santander and after looking into the matter, 
Santander maintained their position and declined to make any refund to Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
and it was looked into by one of our Adjudicators. Both parties were asked for information 
about the complaint and Mr M explained how hed allowed a friends child to use his card to 
pay for a game with J. Mr M told our service that he suffered from a medical condition that 
increased his stress when dealing with financial matters.
Santander provided evidence of the transactions and enquiries theyd made with J about the 
disputed transactions.
Our Adjudicator thought Mr M hadnt authorised the transactions and recommended that he 
be refunded with an additional interest payment to ensure Mr M was put back into the 
position he was in before the disputed transactions.
Once Santander received the Adjudicators report, they told our service that this was new 
information about what had happened with Mr Ms card. They offered to repay Mr M the 
transactions hed disputed and add the interest payment.
Mr M thought that he should receive compensation for how Santander had dealt with his 
complaint and asked for a further review. 
Santander repaid the disputed transactions to Mr M because hed explained his financial 
situation was worsening. 
Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
I asked both parties for further information and clarified how the payments were made at the 
time (using Mr Ms debit card without an overdraft).
Santander were unable to provide any recorded phone calls and they confirmed they had no 
records of Mr Ms medical condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After receiving the Adjudicators report, Santander agreed to refund the substantive losses 
incurred by Mr M  so I dont need to address whether these transactions were authorised 
by Mr M or not.
What the remaining complaint concerns is Mr M feels hes due compensation from 
Santander because of how they dealt with his loss.
When Mr M reported these transactions to Santander, they examined the transaction history 
of payments to J. Mr M had made an undisputed transaction to J and Santander believed 
this was evidence that Mr M was responsible for the rest of them.
Mr M was told to approach J and ask them about the payments. Its often good practice to 
approach merchants directly as the issue can sometimes be resolved by them without 
involving the bank. But, in this case, J declined to give any information to Mr M  likely 
because Mr M didnt have an account with them which would prevent such a disclosure.
At the time, Santander didnt approach J directly. They did request information from them 
(using the Data Protection provisions available to them) some months later, but J didnt 
respond to Santander. 
When Santander first received the request for a refund, they had the option of using the 
Chargeback system. This is a system operated by the payment processors and is a 
voluntary scheme. Theres no right to use the system, but if theres a reasonable chance of 
success, we would expect Santander to use it.
Here, Ive thought about how Santander approached Mr Ms claim. If theyd used a  
Chargeback, the information received from J would have likely matched the information used 
on the first undisputed transaction. That first transaction was one which Mr M has told our 
service that he made himself. So, I think if Santander had considered that information  they 
would probably have come to the same conclusion theyd already arrived at  that Mr M had 
a relationship with J and the additional transactions were authorised by him  or that he 
allowed others to use his card.
I do think Santander could have made their information request much earlier to J, but as J 
never responded, I dont think Mr M was disadvantaged by this delay as J probably wouldnt 
have responded to any earlier request.
I appreciate the stress this incident has caused Mr M and hes repeatedly informed our 
service of the difficulties hes been caused by the ongoing complaint. To lessen the financial 
issues Mr M was experiencing, Santander agreed to repay the disputed transactions prior to 
the complaint being finalised. Im grateful for this early repayment and hope this assisted Mr 
M.
Santander havent any record of Mr Ms condition, although Mr M says he repeatedly told 
them about it. I havent been able to assess any phone calls about this complaint because 
Santander couldnt provide them. But, Ive considered the issues Mr M has talked about and 
how this impacted his complaint. 
Santander assessed Mr Ms refund request based on the evidence of the first undisputed 
transaction  theyve said they were unaware of the detail of the first transaction until they 
received the Adjudicators report. So, at the time Santander dealt with the refund request, I 
dont think they acted unreasonably to refuse a refund. This undoubtedly caused Mr M more 
stress, but I have to keep in mind that Santander didnt cause the loss to his account  it was Mr Ms earlier use of his card in a friends machine that allowed these payments to be made.
Once Santander were aware of the full circumstances they agreed to refund the money and 
add 8% simple interest for the loss of use of this money. I think that was a reasonable 
approach for Santander to take and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Putting things right
I understand that the disputed transactions have been repaid and the only outstanding 
matter is the interest payment of 8% to be paid from the date the loss was reported to the 
date its repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc and instruct them 
to:
Refund the disputed transactions made to J  accepting that Mr M has already 
confirmed repayment.
If not already paid, make an interest payment at 8% simple for the loss of use of the 
disputed transactions from the date the loss was reported to the date theyre repaid.
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman