DRN-2336462
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how they were treated by Lloyds Bank PLC when they 
attended a branch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G attended a Lloyds branch and asked about withdrawing money which was due 
to be paid into their account following an ISA maturity. They say they were questioned by 
Lloyds staff and eventually the police were called and were questioned in a small room 
which has had isolation and Covid-19 implications. Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds actions had a 
significant impact on them and their family due to isolation issues and the offer of 
compensation isnt enough for them and their family.
Lloyds accepts part of the complaint and says it accepts a staff member intervened 
unnecessarily and caused confusion. It says it followed its protocol in these circumstances 
where it had fraud and security concerns and has apologised for the size of room. Lloyds 
says Mr and Mrs G were able to withdraw their money some days later and has offered £150 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation 
fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Lloyds was entitled to call the police where it 
had such concerns and thought Lloyds had fairly offered that meeting to take place at Mr 
and Mrs Gs home.
Mr and Mrs G dont accept that view and in summary say there wasnt a heated discussion 
in branch as Lloyds says and maintain they shouldnt have been taken into a small room. 
They say there was no reason to call the police and say they were not vague about the 
reasons they wanted to withdraw the money. They also say they are prepared to take court 
proceedings if needed and didnt do anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds ought to have dealt more 
appropriately with Mr and Mrs G when they attended its branch, but I dont require it to 
increase its compensation offer. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about what took place.
I make clear to Mr and Mrs G that I accept the money in their account is theirs and its up to 
them how they spend that money. But I also accept that banks and building societies have a 
duty to protect its customers from fraud or scams. And on occasions, as here, legitimate 
customers are caused inconvenience and questioned about their spending plans when there 
is no fraud or a scam. I am sure Mr and Mrs G appreciate the difficult balance Lloyds has in 
these circumstances and I also make clear its for Lloyds to decide what its protocol is in 
these circumstances and when it involves the police. We are not Lloyds regulator and so its 
not our role to tell Lloyds what it should and should not be doing in these circumstances.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs G say that Lloyds didnt listen to what they were 
saying about the money and what it was for. I also think it likely Lloyds confused matters 
when other staff members involved themselves and didnt appreciate that Mr and Mrs G 
didnt want to withdraw the money that day. I accept if staff had listened this situation could 
have largely been avoided. I dont need to make any findings about if any discussions were 
heated or not and dont think any video footage would assist me if it was still available.
I have made clear that its up to Lloyds to decide if it wishes to involve the police and I also 
think it was up to Mr and Mrs G to decide if they wished to stay at the branch to speak to the 
police. I also think it up to them to decide if they went into the room as directed by Lloyds 
and could have arranged to have met or spoken to the police at a later stage or at their 
home. Having said that I dont know why Lloyds needed to take Mr and Mrs G into a room if 
the branch was closed.
Overall, I accept Lloyds could have dealt with matters more appropriately when Mr and Mrs 
G went to the branch. But I accept that Lloyds has fairly apologised for part of the complaint 
and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of £150 compensation. I think that 
offer reflects the level of Lloyds mistake and that Mr and Mrs G didnt suffer any financial 
loss. I cant fairly consider the impact of Lloyds actions on Mr and Mrs Gs family.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G are considering court action and so I will leave it to them to 
decide if they wish to take that route or accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of £150 
compensation. Mr and Mrs Gs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman