DRN-3840478
The complaint
This complaint is about a bridging loan taken out by Mr and Mrs S through Aura Finance 
Limited. Mr S, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that Aura delayed 
completion of the sale of his property, incurring an additional months interest. Mr S also 
says that Aura imposed a fee of £12,000 without providing either notice that the fee would be 
charged, or a breakdown of it.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in January 2020 Mr and Mrs S took out bridging finance with Aura, secured on their 
property. They borrowed a total of £1,115,000 repayable by 13 September 2020. The loan 
wasnt repaid in time and, although Mr and Mrs S had a buyer for their property, they handed 
the sale over to Aura. The sale of the property completed on 15 January 2021.
Following the sale a complaint was raised by Mr S. He said that completion had been 
delayed by Aura, which resulted in additional interest becoming due, as this was two days 
into the next interest-charging month under the contract. 
Mr S was also unhappy about a Legal Management Fee of £12,000 shown on the 
redemption statement. Mr S said that hed been given no prior notice of this fee, nor any 
breakdown of it.
Aura didnt uphold the complaint, saying that completion had been delayed at the request of 
the purchaser. Aura also said that the contract allowed it to charge fees. Dissatisfied with 
Auras response, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to our service.
An investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He found that completion hadnt 
been delayed due to anything Aura had, or hadnt done, but rather this was a request of the 
buyer. The investigator also thought Aura was allowed to charge the £12,000 fee.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that Aura had postponed completion in order to ensure that 
additional interest would be charged. Mr S was also unhappy about the £12,000 fee, and 
reiterated the points hed previously made about being given no notice of this.
Provisional decision of 29 November 2022
I issued a provisional decision, in which I made the following findings.
Interest charged for January 2021: Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said about 
this. Ive also looked at the timeline of events. It wasnt Aura that requested a delayed 
completion, but the purchaser of the property, who had no stake or vested interest in the 
loan agreement and so wouldnt have been aware of the implications of completion going 
into the next interest-charging month. Overall, Im not persuaded Aura made a mistake here. 
Whilst I acknowledge the delay resulted in additional interest being charged, on the 
evidence, I dont think it was, as Mr S suggests, a deliberate ploy by Aura to be paid more 
interest.
The £12,000 Legal Management Fee: Aura says that the loan agreement allows it to 
charge fees and that Mr and Mrs S are required to pay these.
The loan agreement says, at Clause 14:
The Borrower shall pay to, or reimburse, the Lender and any Receiver on demand all 
reasonable Costs reasonably incurred by the Lender or any Receiver in connection 
with:
(a) this deed or the Charged Property,
(b) taking, holding, protecting, perfecting, preserving or enforcing (or attempting to do 
so) any of the Lenders or Receivers rights under this deed, or
(c) taking proceedings for, or recovering, any of the Secured Liabilities
together with interest on those Costs, which shall, in the case of each Cost, accrue 
and be payable in respect of the period commencing and including the date which is 
10 days after the date on which notice of the fact that the Cost has been incurred is 
given to the Borrower up to and including the date when full discharge or 
reimbursement of that Cost is made by the Borrower (whether before or after 
judgment partial payment or bankruptcy of the Borrower) at the rate and in the 
manner applying from time to time under the most recent Facility Letter or as 
otherwise agreed in writing between the Lender and the Borrower.
The first Mr and Mrs S knew of the £12,000 charge was when it appeared in the redemption 
statement. It is described as a Legal Management Fee. There is no breakdown of the fee, 
and so, on the face of it, it appears to be an arbitrary amount charged by Aura. I do not find, 
on the evidence, that the fee is a reasonable Cost reasonably incurred.
I am also unable to conclude that prior notice of the £12,000 fee was provided to 
Mr and Mrs S. In the circumstances, I find that the £12,000 fee has been unfairly charged by 
Aura and should therefore be reimbursed to Mr and Mrs S.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties have replied before the deadline in the provisional decision.
Mr S responded to say that the issue in relation to the postponement of completion is that he 
wasnt consulted about this. Mr S says that, if Aura or its solicitors had told him, hed have 
been able to speak to the buyer about this.
Mr S accepted my findings about the £12,000 fee.
Aura responded as follows:
The £12,000 fee is connected to the management of the property post its voluntary 
surrender to Aura and is used to cover the costs involved in the maintenance and preparation of the property in order to reach a sale. The charge itself is a percentage 
of the sale price achieved. 
Prior to January 2021, the firm had engaged with external asset managers to provide 
these services where and when required. As a result, this had produced an invoice 
that was submitted to the customer at redemption for payment. The charge was 
communicated to the customer via the Tariff of Charges under the Third Party 
Charges, provided as part of the Mortgage Offer pack, and the invoice for costs 
formed part of the redemption pack when communicating with a borrowers 
solicitor at the end of the loan term. The contractual terms in the Loan Agreement 
at Clause 14, that you refer to in your decision letter, covers the legal basis on which 
the payment of the charge is sought (my emphasis)
Aura also sent us a proposal paper about a change in its asset management services. 
Aura says:  
This was agreed and undertaken by the business in January 2021 a month prior to 
the sale of this property at which point the process to manage the communication to 
the customer had not been fully embedded within the business. [Aura] included the 
business proposal on this to show the thought process and rationale behind the 
change in the provision of these services.
Aura also acknowledged:
In the context of the complaint, the application of this fee, while charged to the 
customer correctly as a fair cost to provide specialist services to the customer, the 
method by which we communicated this was lacking both at redemption and at the 
point at which the customer raised their complaint. Further, we have not addressed 
this point sufficiently in providing correspondence to you, or the initial adjudicator on 
the case. 
It should be noted that the charging of this fee was not grounded in an objective cost 
incurred, i.e. in an invoice provided by a dedicated asset management firm as would 
have been the case if we had outsourced the service at a higher cost. This was due 
to the transition in process which had not been implemented correctly at the point 
when the voluntary surrender was made which fed through to the completion of the 
redemption statement and dearth of explanation provided at the time of the 
customers initial requests for information from Aura.  The fees were payable by the 
customer under the Clause 14 stated but our setting out of how these were 
reasonable fees, reasonably incurred was insufficient.
Aura was asked again to provide a breakdown of the £12,000 charge for this fee, but hasnt 
been able to do so. Aura maintains its position that this was not an arbitrary fee. 
Aura has explained that its process, prior to January 2021, was to appoint an external asset 
manager who would, under the previous process, have provided an invoice to manage the 
property, and in an amount that was a percentage of the sale price. But from January 2021 
onwards, the process was to perform this activity internally, via the Property Team (as set 
out in the proposal paper Aura sent me). Aura says that as this asset sale was on the cusp of the process changing, communication 
was lacking. However, Aura is keen to emphasise that the external third party would have 
charged a higher fee for the same services. Aura also says there is no defined fee, nor any 
letter to the borrowers solicitors
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Additional interest in January 2021: Ive noted what Mr S has said about this  that if hed 
been told by Aura or its solicitors that the purchaser had asked for completion to be delayed 
by a couple of days, hed have had the opportunity to speak to the buyer and ask them to 
complete on the due date. He would therefore have avoided being charged an additional 
months interest.
I fully understand what Mr S has said, but Im not persuaded that the solicitors or Aura had 
any obligation, once voluntary surrender of the property had been given, to liaise further with 
Mr S about the transaction. I am sure the purchaser would have had no inkling of the 
implications of delaying completion by a couple of days. I also think its unlikely that the 
solicitors would have been aware of this either, and so I think the additional interest charged 
was an unfortunate consequence of the purchasers request, rather than a deliberate ploy by 
Aura to get an extra months interest from Mr and Mrs S.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Legal Management Fee: Ive read everything Aura has provided us with about this. Quite 
frankly, nothing Aura says has helped its case; rather, everything Aura has said has 
supported Mr Ss contention that the fee was unfair.
Aura is, of course, allowed to charge fees under the terms of its contract. But those fees 
must be reasonable, charged fairly, and be proportionate to whatever service Aura has 
provided in relation to those fees.
Aura had the property in its possession for less than a month  17 December 2020 until it 
was sold on 15 January 2021. The sale of the property was well advanced with a buyer 
found by Mr and Mrs S. Yet I am asked to believe that in that time external asset managers 
incurred fees that were more than £12,000 but that Aura only charged £12,000 as a 
percentage of the sale price. 
Although Aura initially told me that an invoice and letter was provided with the redemption 
pack (as I have highlighted above), it later said this wasnt the case. Aura has also accepted 
that its communication was lacking. Its own terms and conditions say that fees must be fairly 
charged and will be communicated in advance to the borrower. None of that happened here, 
and I am glad to note that Aura has accepted its shortcomings in relation to the service 
provided to Mr and Mrs S.Despite several requests, Aura hasnt been able to provide this service with a breakdown of 
how the £12,000 was allegedly spent  yet maintains that this is less than the actual costs 
and so is not an arbitrary fee. However, given the lack of clarity from Aura about this, and 
taking into account the length of time the property was within Auras control, I can find no 
basis on which a fee of £12,000 charged to Mr and Mrs S without notice, explanation or 
breakdown can be considered fair or reasonable, or proportionate to any service that asset 
managers carried out in relation to this particular property sale.
Given this, I am satisfied that Aura has not treated Mr and Mrs S fairly in relation to this fee. I 
am therefore upholding this part of the complaint.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint I direct Aura Finance Limited to reimburse the £12,000 fee, together 
with interest at 8% simple per annum*, from the date the fee was charged (15 January 2021) 
to the date of settlement. I also direct Aura Finance Limited to pay compensation of £300 to 
Mr and Mrs S for distress and inconvenience.
* If Aura Finance Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from any interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much it has taken off. Aura 
Finance Limited should also give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if requested, so 
the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I am ordering Aura Finance Limited to 
settle the complaint as directed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman