DRN-3025594
The complaint
Ms E complains that Social Money Limited (trading as The Bridgecrowd) didnt refund fees 
when her bridging loan didnt go ahead. She asks that it refunds fees, pays compensation 
and only uses approved agents in future.
What happened
Ms E applied for a bridging loan with Social Money in 2019, via a broker. The loan was to be 
secured by a second charge on her buy to let property. She says she was told the fees she 
paid for the application would be refunded if the loan didnt go ahead.
After paying the fees Ms E was told it was a condition of the bridging loan that the property 
was marketed for sale before completion. Ms E says she would never have gone ahead on 
that basis. She asked for the fees to be refunded.
Our investigator said Bridgecrowd hadnt misled Ms E about the fees being refundable or the 
conditions of the loan. 
Ms E didnt agree. She said it was wrong for regulated firms (such as Bridgecrowd) to work 
with unregulated firms (such as the broker that recommended the bridging loan), and allow 
them to misrepresent products they earn revenue from. Ms E said her concerns hadnt been 
addressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear that Im looking into Ms Es complaint about Bridgecrowd. Im not looking into 
her concerns about the broker in this decision.
Ms E applied for an unregulated bridging loan. This is short term finance. Its reasonable for 
Bridgecrowd to ask how the loan will be repaid. The information it received from the broker 
said the loan would be repaid by the sale of property. Ms E says this was wrong. But I dont 
think Bridgecrowd could have known this.
Bridgecrowd is entitled to decide the terms on which it lends. Here, it required evidence of 
the exit plan  which it had been told was sale of property. It asked for evidence the property 
was being marketed for sale as a condition of the loan. It didnt know that Ms E had a 
different strategy to repay the loan.
The condition that the property was being marketed for sale wasnt acceptable to Ms E. This 
was a buy to let property which she didnt intend to sell. Ms E says she also became aware 
of further fees and charges she hadnt been told about. Ms E decided not to go ahead and 
asked that the fees shed paid were refunded. These fees included a lock in fee of £350 and 
a valuation fee of £495 paid to Bridgecrowd. Ms E says shed been told by her broker that 
these fees would be refunded if she didnt go ahead with the loan.
The offer sent to Ms E by Bridgecrowd said these fees were not refundable if the loan didnt 
go ahead. Ms E signed the offer before she paid the fees to Bridgecrowd. I think 
Bridgecrowd made Ms E aware of the basis on which the fees would (or wouldnt) be 
refunded before she paid the fees. I dont think Bridgecrowd misled her.
I must again be clear here that Im only looking into Ms Es complaint about Bridgecrowd. 
While Ms E says she was misled by her broker about the circumstances in which fees would 
be refunded that isnt something I can look into here. 
Ms E says Bridgecrowd should bear some responsibility for the actions of the broker. She 
says the broker was acting as its agent or that Bridgecrowd shouldnt have worked with the 
broker. I havent seen any evidence that the broker was acting as Bridgecrowds agent. Or 
that Bridgecrowd had any reason not to accept Ms Es loan application due to it being made 
via this broker. 
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator and dont have the 
powers of a regulator. If Ms E remains concerned about the circumstances in which 
regulated lenders can accept applications from unregulated brokers she can consider 
contacting the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman