DRN-3551597
The complaint
Ms G is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded an amount she paid on her debit 
card for a holiday voucher.
What happened
In June 2017 Ms G bought a holiday voucher from a third-party holiday provider  who I shall 
refer to as T  for her daughter. T went into administration in September 2019 before Ms Gs 
daughter had used the voucher. So Ms G contacted Lloyds and asked it to refund the 
amount she paid for the voucher. Lloyds said she needed to ask for the refund within 540 
days of when she bought the voucher, which it said she hadnt done so. So it said shed 
asked for it too late.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Ms G had asked Lloyds to process a 
chargeback claim for the money she paid. But she said the chargeback rules set out that a 
claim must be made within 540 days of the transaction date. So she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to say Ms G had raised the claim too late.
Ms G didnt agree with the investigator so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im not looking at the actions of T here or whether T should have 
done anything to support Ms G. In this decision, Im looking at the way Lloyds has handled 
Ms Gs chargeback claim  in particular whether it was fair or not for it to decline to process 
the claim.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. The rules 
around when a chargeback claim can be raised are strict and are set by the individual card 
scheme  in this case VISA. Banks are entitled to consider the reasonable prospects of 
success in the chargeback succeeding before deciding whether to pursue it or not.
As I said, VISA has set out when a chargeback claim can be raised  including any relevant 
timescales. The relevant chargeback code in this case is Merchandise/Services Not 
Received. But this says that the claim must be raised within 540 calendar days from the 
Transaction Processing Date. 
The transaction processing date is the date Ms G paid for the voucher  which in this case 
was 30 June 2017. So, under VISAs rules, Ms G had to raise the claim by 22 December 
2018. I recognise she wasnt aware the service wasnt going to be provided by this date, but, 
as I said, the rules are strict and Lloyds are entitled to (and are required to) to follow what 
they say. Ultimately, while I can understand Ms Gs unhappiness about the situation, Lloyds 
was correct in saying Ms G had brought the claim too late under the chargeback rules. So I 
cant say it was unfair for Lloyds to not process the chargeback claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman