DRN-1830982
The complaint
Miss T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for subsidence 
and voided a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss T held a home insurance policy with UKI. She made a claim for subsidence after cracks 
were noticed in the property. While it was making enquiries, UKI made a payment of £1,000 
for urgent repairs but after completing these checks, declined cover for the claim and voided 
Miss Ts policy. It said that Miss Ts partner, Mr K, had been declared bankrupt in 2008 and 
that Miss T hadnt disclosed this when she took out the policy. It said if it had been told about 
this, it wouldnt have sold the policy.
Miss T was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. He thought UKI had demonstrated it 
had asked a clear question of Miss T about bankruptcy and that she should have disclosed 
this. He thought that if Mr Ks bankruptcy had been disclosed, the evidence available 
suggested it was more likely than not that UKI wouldnt have sold the policy. And in those 
circumstances, it was entitled to act as it had and void the policy. 
Miss T was also dissatisfied with how long it had taken UKI to come to its decision. She was 
particularly unhappy that the policy had been renewed while the investigations into the claim 
were ongoing, and that shed paid premiums for the renewal of a policy which was then 
voided. Our investigator agreed with Miss T that UKI could have acted sooner, but that 
payments it had made to cover emergency repairs but hadnt sought to recover when it 
declined the claim meant that it didnt need to do anything else. 
Miss T didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She argues that UKI 
hadnt shown shed deliberately or recklessly misrepresented information when she took out 
the policy. She also says that the first time she was aware of Mr Ks bankruptcy was when 
UKI were making enquiries into the claim and shed been unaware of it when she took out 
the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has relied on the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) when it declined Miss Ts claim and voided her policies. This puts an obligation on 
consumers to take reasonable care not to misrepresent when they enter into a consumer 
insurance contract. This is defined as a contract mainly for purposes unrelated to their 
business. The act also says if the consumer fails to meet this obligation the insurer has a 
remedy against the consumer if it can show that without the misrepresentation it would not 
have entered into the contract at all, or would have done so only on different terms. This is 
what the Act describes as a Qualifying Misrepresentation. 
UKI argue that Miss T misrepresented information about Mr K when she took out the policy. 
It isnt disputed that Mr K was declared bankrupt in 2008, just over ten years before the 
policy was taken out in 2018. The bankruptcy was discharged in 2009. What is disputed here 
is whether, based on what Miss T was asked and what she knew at the time, she should 
have disclosed this when she took out the policy.
When Miss T called to purchase the policy, she was asked whether she, or any adults who 
lived at the property, had been declared bankrupt or entered into an individual voluntary 
arrangement. She answered no, nothing to this question. Im aware that Miss T has said 
that the quality of the line when she made the call was poor, and its certainly true that the 
line was lost and a subsequent call was needed to finalise the policy sale. But I dont think 
this is sufficient reason to say that her omitting to mention Mr Ks bankruptcy should be 
disregarded. If she was unable to hear all or part of a question she was asked, she could 
have asked for the question to be repeated. I think its fair for UKI to rely on the information 
given in the call as being Miss Ts accurate and informed answers to the questions asked. 
Its important to note that the question as asked in the phone call didnt put any time limits on 
the bankruptcy matters to be disclosed. So it follows that Mr Ks bankruptcy should have 
been disclosed. Ill consider Miss Ts knowledge of the bankruptcy, and her obligation to 
disclose this, later in this decision. 
After this phone call, a Statement of Facts document was sent to Miss T. Im aware that she 
says this wasnt received but UKI has been able to provide evidence of having posted this to 
her. Our service generally takes the approach that if it can be demonstrated that something 
was posted, the party who sends it has met their obligations and can reasonably assume 
that it was received by the other party and acted upon appropriately. Theres no need for it to 
be sent by recorded delivery. 
The Statement of Facts had a disclaimer at the beginning of the document which stated in 
part Should any of the information contained in the Statement of Facts or the Policy 
Schedule be incorrect or should it change during the period of insurance, it is a condition of 
the insurance that you notify us immediately. Failure to do so could invalidate your policy. 
The document also contained a statement that You or any person living with you or covered 
under this policy have not been bankrupt and/ or entered into an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) in the last 10 years. It was to be expected therefore that if that statement 
was incorrect, Miss T would need to contact UKI to inform them of this.
The wording of this statement is important here. The statement is that any person living at 
the address had not been bankrupt within the previous 10 years. This is different to being 
declared bankrupt. Mr K remained bankrupt from the point at which he was declared 
bankrupt in 2008 until the bankruptcy was discharged.
There has been some dispute about when Mr Ks bankruptcy was discharged. A court order 
was issued in September 2019, after UKIs agent had met with Mr K and told him that they 
had identified an undischarged bankruptcy. This discharged the bankruptcy, and backdated 
it to April 2009, one year after hed been declared bankrupt. But irrespective of whether the bankruptcy was considered discharged in 2009 or 2019, Mr K had been bankrupt within 10 
years of the policy inception in 2018. 
While Mr K had been declared bankrupt more than 10 years before the policys inception, he 
had been bankrupt within that period. So it follows that, again, UKI should have been made 
aware of this. 
I dont agree with Miss Ts contention that the wording of the statement is ambiguous and 
should be interpreted as meaning that only a bankruptcy which had been declared within the 
previous 10 years needed to be declared. And in any case, shed previously been asked 
whether anyone at the address had ever been declared bankrupt, and answered no to this. 
Miss T says she was unaware of Mr Ks bankruptcy at the time of the telephone call, didnt 
receive the statement of facts and only learnt about it when her partner told her after a loss 
adjuster appointed by UKI had met with her partner. So she argues that she had no 
obligation to disclose the bankruptcy as she didnt know about it. As Ive said above, she 
also says she didnt receive the statement of facts which UKI has shown it sent when she 
took put the policy.
I dont think I can safely conclude that Miss Ts demonstrated that she had no knowledge of 
Mr Ks bankruptcy. In a letter sent to UKIs agents by solicitors acting on her behalf after UKI 
first put to her that the bankruptcy hadnt been declared, the solicitors wrote that Miss T was 
aware that her partner [Mr K ] had been declared bankrupt more than ten years previously, 
she assumed that this was no longer relevant. The letter goes on to say that, after she 
received the statement of facts, Miss T considered this with her partner, but as the 
bankruptcy had been made over ten years before, they concluded that it was not something 
that had to be referred back to the insurer. 
Miss T later wrote to UKIs solicitors, after they informed her the claim was being declined 
and the policy voided, and said As far as I was concerned prior to [UKIs agents] inaccurate 
investigation Mr. Kitching was declared bankrupt on the 2nd April 2008. My understanding at 
the time of reviewing the policy document in May 2018 was that his bankruptcy was 
discharged a year later on the 2nd April 2009. She went on to add that At the time of 
reviewing the first policy document in May 2018, I read the Statements about You to mean 
the date the bankruptcy was entered into. 
Its my opinion that a reasonable interpretation of what is stated in the letters sent by Miss T 
and her solicitors is that when she took out the policy, Miss T knew Mr K had been declared 
bankrupt in 2008, and shed reviewed the statement of facts when it was sent to her after 
she took out the policy.
Im also not satisfied that Miss T has been able to provide a reasonable explanation for why 
she previously indicated that she was aware of Mr Ks bankruptcy at the time of taking out 
the policy, but now says that she didnt know about it until UKI was investigating the claim. I 
dont think there can be any other interpretation of what was written by both her solicitors 
and herself that she knew about the bankruptcy at the time she took out the policy, but didnt 
consider that it was relevant information that needed to be disclosed. As Ive explained 
above, based on the question asked and what was in the statement of facts, the bankruptcy 
should have been disclosed. 
I also dont think that Miss T has provided a reasonable explanation for why she now says 
she didnt receive the statement of facts, having previously said that shed reviewed the 
document but didnt think that Mr Ks bankruptcy needed to be disclosed. 
On balance therefore, Im satisfied that Miss T did misrepresent information to UKI when she took out the policy. Mr Ks bankruptcy should have been disclosed. I need to next consider 
whether theres sufficient evidence to show that UKI wouldnt have sold the policy if it had 
been told about the bankruptcy.
UKIs provided us with evidence from its underwriting guidelines which show that, where a 
bankruptcy is disclosed, there are two options available to the advisor. The first is to decline 
to sell the policy, and the second is to refer the matter to an underwriter. UKIs provided 
evidence in the form of correspondence from an underwriter which says that if an 
undischarged bankruptcy had been disclosed, UKI would have declined to offer a policy.
I know Miss T argues that, as the date Mr Ks bankruptcy being discharged was recorded as 
being in 2009, at the time of taking out the policy in 2018, the bankruptcy had been 
discharged. But I cant agree that is the case. The bankruptcy was discharged by a court 
order issued in 2019, after the policy was taken out. And so it follows that the bankruptcy 
had not been discharged when the policy was incepted. 
Im satisfied that, if the questions in the call had been answered correctly, then UKI would 
not have sold the policy. 
As Im satisfied that Miss T didnt disclose relevant information she was asked for, and UKIs 
demonstrated that it wouldnt have sold the policy if that information had been disclosed, I 
can safely conclude that Miss T did make a qualifying misrepresentation, as defined by 
CIDRA. 
Miss T argues that, if shed disclosed the bankruptcy, shed have been offered a different 
policy by UKI which doesnt have this exclusion in its underwriting criteria. But thats not 
relevant here. All UKI needs to do is show that the specific policy which Miss T held would 
not have been sold if shed properly disclosed the relevant information.
CIDRA says that in these circumstances, where the insurer can show that if the correct 
information had been disclosed, its entitled to void the policy from inception. This is what 
UKI did here. When that happens, it is as if the policy never existed, and any claim made on 
the policy isnt covered. 
Miss T has mentioned in correspondence that UKI hasnt demonstrated that she made the 
misrepresentation of Mr Ks bankruptcy either deliberately or recklessly. She argues that UKI 
has to show that she made deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in order to fairly void the 
policy. This isnt the case. CIDRA says that a misrepresentation which is made carelessly, 
that is to say not deliberately or recklessly, can also lead to a policy being voided, as long as 
the requirements of CIDRA are met. The legislation says A qualifying misrepresentation is 
careless if it is not deliberate or reckless. Ive explained why Im satisfied a qualifying 
misrepresentation has been made here. 
Where a misrepresentation is made carelessly, and the insurer would not have sold the 
policy, CIDRA requires that any premiums paid are refunded to the consumer. This differs 
from a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, where an insurer doesnt have an obligation 
to refund premiums. UKIs refunded Miss Ts premiums, and accepted that she made the 
misrepresentation carelessly. I think this its acted reasonably by doing so. It hasnt alleged 
Miss T deliberately or recklessly failed to disclose Mr Ks bankruptcy. 
Miss Ts also unhappy with the amount of time taken by UKI to come to its decision not to 
cover the claim. She first reported the subsidence in September 2018, but the decision to 
decline the claim and void the policy wasnt communicated to Miss T until October 2019. 
During that time, UKI offered renewal of the policy while the claim was ongoing. When it 
voided the original policy, it also voided the renewal and refunded the premium paid at renewal.
Insurers have a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly. Claims involving subsidence, its 
accepted, will take time to resolve. And I can see that during the period where it was 
investigating the claim, UKI was taking action in regards to identifying the cause of the 
subsidence. But Im not satisfied that the length of time it took for UKI to establish that Mr K 
had been declared bankrupt was reasonable. A report was provided to UKI in March 2019 
which suggested Mr K had been declared bankrupt. A further seven months elapsed before 
the claim was declined, and it was not until September 2019 that Miss T was first informed 
by UKI that the claim might not be covered. 
During that period, Miss Ts policy was renewed, as UKI hadnt yet determined cover for the 
claim and was aware it would be difficult for Miss T to obtain insurance elsewhere while the 
subsidence claim was ongoing. When the policy was renewed, UKI did inform Miss T that 
the investigations into the claim were ongoing, and that at the conclusion of those 
investigations, it was possible that both the original policy and the renewed policy could be 
voided. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. When it subsequently did void the 
policy, it refunded the premiums. I dont think UKI did anything wrong when it did this. 
While I do agree that there were delays to the claim, I dont think I should ask UKI to do 
anything more to put things right. While it was assessing cover for the claim, it made a paid 
Miss T £1,000 for emergency repairs. When it, fairly, declined the claim and voided the 
policy, it would have been entitled to recover this payment from Miss T, as it was a payment 
in part settlement of a claim which wasnt covered. UKI has chosen not to ask Miss T to 
repay this. I think, in the circumstances, this is reasonable but means that no further 
compensation or payment to Miss T is necessary for the delays to the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Miss Ts complaint in part. Im not persuaded that U K 
Insurance Limited acted unreasonably by voiding the policy and declining cover for the 
claim. And while there were unnecessary delays to the claim, the actions its taken to date 
mean that it need not do anything further to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman