DRN-1706509
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Monese Ltd wont refund debit card transactions, which he says 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used to make five payments totalling 
2167.03 euros. The disputed payments were made in the early hours of the morning across 
two establishments - a bar and a club. Mr D was abroad with his partner. During their trip 
they joined an organised bar crawl. Mr D doesnt dispute visiting the bar, he remembers it 
being busy and crowded. He recalls using his Monese card to buy a round of drinks, which 
cost approximately 30 euros, shortly after which, he says him and his partner left the bar and 
returned to their hotel. The following morning Mr D realised two of his bank cards were 
missing from his wallet. He immediately blocked them. He could see some pending 
transactions that he didnt recognise on his Monese card and tried to contact it to get 
them stopped. 
Mr D says the PIN for both his cards were the same series of numbers. This was a randomly 
generated PIN given to him when he first got his Monese card. He had the number 
memorised, had never written it down anywhere and it is not even known by his partner. He 
believes someone managed to shoulder-surf him whilst he was entering his PIN, stole his 
cards and carried out the transactions.
Monese rejected Mr Ds claim, it told Mr D that as all the transactions had been made using 
his genuine card and correct PIN, it would not be refunding the money. Mr D referred the 
matter to our service. 
One of our investigators thought it was more likely than not that Mr D had made or otherwise 
authorised the transactions. So he didnt recommend that Monese needed to take any action 
to resolve the complaint. As he still disagrees, Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D in his submissions says that it has not been proven beyond reasonable doubt that he 
authorised the disputed transactions and his understanding of the law is that in an instance 
such as this, he is innocent until proven guilty. I think it will be helpful for me to start by explaining that we are an informal dispute resolution service. We do not consider complaints 
in the same way as a criminal court might. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, we would make a decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
what we think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full, the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr D and Monese have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ds complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In short, Monese is generally 
required to refund any unauthorised transactions. There are certain exceptions but none Ive 
needed to consider when reaching my decision here. Mr D says he didnt make the disputed 
transactions and says they are unauthorised. So, my primary concern now is to come to a 
view about whether or not I think Mr D authorised the transactions. If Im satisfied that Mr D 
did, then I wouldnt ask Monese to refund him.
Having reviewed the technical evidence provided by Monese, Im satisfied that Mr Ds 
genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. Mr D is correct in his 
understanding that the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Monese to hold him liable for the disputed transactions. However, Monese can hold 
him liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that he made or authorised them himself. So, Ive carefully thought about whether Mr D 
consented to the transactions being made and to help me decide what happened, Ive 
looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as what both Mr D and Monese have told 
us. Like our investigator, Ive also considered evidence provided to us by Mr Ds other bank. 
Whoever used Mr Ds card and PIN wouldve had to obtain both. I cant rule out the 
possibility that someone was able to do that without his knowledge. However, Im not 
persuaded thats what has happened here. I say this for the following reasons;  
Firstly, I dont doubt that Mr D believes he has given Monese and our service an 
honest recollection of the events. Id like to assure Mr D that Im not calling into 
question his honesty nor am I insinuating that he has acted fraudulently with what Im 
about to say, but overall, I dont find his testimony to be reliable. I say this because 
there are several inconsistencies in Mr Ds version of events and what the technical 
evidence shows. I know he feels strongly that his testimony has not fundamentally 
changed, and any minor variation between what he has told Monese at the time and 
our service more recently is just down to memories fading due to passage of time  
and to some extent I do accept this. But it doesnt explain everything. 
 
I think a consumer's original version of events about what happened, is often most 
likely to be the most accurate version, as the events wouldve been fresh in their 
mind. So, I cant ignore that on the day Mr D reported the disputed the transactions 
he told Monese; It is very likely that I was drugged as I have no recollection of 
around 8 hours of my evening .. So if this were true, its entirely possible and most 
likely that Mr D is mistaken in his recollection of what happened. 
 
Mr D says he left the bar shortly after buying a round of drinks at around 2am (local 
time). He was staying on the outskirts of the city and by the time he returned to his 
hotel it wouldve been around 3am (local time). Mr Ds other bank has provided 
evidence showing multiple attempts were made to order a Minicab in the early hours of the morning and this is something Mr D regularly used his card for. These took 
place around 5am (local time). As Mr D has confirmed he didnt lose his phone and it 
was security protected, Im persuaded this was him, as I think its unlikely that if a 
third party was in possession of Mr Ds cards they wouldve used a card that was 
blocked and had previously declined earlier in the evening to order a Minicab, more 
so as they were also in possession of Mr Ds Monese card which had successfully 
been used around the same time. So, with this in mind, Im not satisfied that Mr Ds 
account of events is accurate.   
 
Mr D says he is an experienced traveller and always takes due care regarding his 
wallet and PIN, which to start makes it less likely that someone wouldve been able to 
observe him enter his PIN and obtain his wallet without him noticing. But Ive thought 
carefully about the possibility given the location, time and nature of the organised bar 
crawl Mr D was participating in and I accept its possible someone couldve done so.
 
Mr D said he had his wallet in his back trouser pocket. The following day the cards 
were missing, but he was still in possession of his wallet which he says had been 
rummaged through. It means having seen him enter his PIN and taken his wallet, a 
thief then wouldve had to return the wallet to him. In my view, thats most unlikely; as 
Im not sure why a thief would take the risk of getting caught by trying to return Mr Ds 
wallet to him. But even if I were to accept, the thief did somehow manage to return  
Mr Ds wallet to his back pocket it doesnt explain the transaction pattern  which 
does not match what Id typically expect to see from fraudulent use. Usually youd 
expect a thief to make the most of having access to the card and PIN in the shortest 
amount of time to maximise their gain before the theft is identified and the card 
blocked. So, on balance Im not persuaded this is what happened here.  
 
Mr D told us his other bank card was stopped as the activity was identified as 
suspicious. But the evidence provided by Mr Ds other bank shows in fact, the 
attempted transactions were blocked due to multiple incorrect PIN attempts. This 
would mean that a third party, who had observed Mr D enter his PIN, which he says 
was the same for both cards, entered a different number to what theyd observed. I 
think its unlikely that someone trying to gain maximum benefit from a card, whod 
only observed one PIN being entered, wouldve entered anything other than the 
number theyd observed. I also note there were no incorrect PIN attempts on Mr Ds 
Monese card, which was used to make payments, both before and after the incorrect 
attempts on Mr Ds other bank card - all of which have been disputed by Mr D. I 
totally appreciate this alone isnt conclusive. But it is not irrelevant either and, taking 
account of it alongside other matters Ive mentioned above Im not satisfied that an 
unknown third party observed Mr D enter his PIN, stole his cards and carried out the 
transactions without his consent.    
 
I note there was no further use or attempted use of the card after Mr D reported the 
matter to Monese. If an unknown third party were responsible for the transactions, 
they wouldnt have known the card was blocked and I think its likely they would've 
tried to use the card for further gain  especially since the last transaction it was used 
for was successful.  
 Overall, therefore, I think the most likely explanation for what happened here, and it is 
entirely possible Mr D doesnt remember doing so, is that he either made the disputed 
transactions himself or gave consent for someone else to do so. 
I also know that Mr D feels Monese shouldve done things differently when he reported the 
matter, but from what I can see Monese explained what it was doing, and why, and 
apologised for delays. I think that was appropriate, and I dont believe it need do any more.
As Ive said, its not that I dont accept what Mr D has said is possible, he couldve been 
shoulder-surfed, and someone couldve obtained his card and made the payments without 
his consent. But I dont have enough evidence to lead me to reasonably conclude that it is 
most likely what happened here. I realise that Mr D will be disappointed about this, but I 
have to judge the reliability of all evidence provided. Its not my role to decide how the fraud 
happened and who carried it out but rather whether Monese acted reasonably in concluding 
their customer consented to the transactions. And weighing everything up, for the reasons 
Ive explained above I think, on balance, Mr D authorised the payments he disputes and 
therefore Monese are entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman