DRN-3027786
The complaint
In summary, B a limited company, has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc breached its 
data by sending information to a former director of it. By using an incorrect e-mail address, it 
says approval of a loan was delayed. It is also unhappy that a large payment from its 
business bank account was stopped, and the account temporarily frozen. Mr H, one of Bs 
directors, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
In 2018 B was purchased by Mr H. He said that he went into a branch of HSBC to provide it 
with his details. A new bank mandate was also completed.
When Mr H applied for a loan on behalf of B in 2020, he says he became aware that not all 
of the business bank account details had been changed. This was when he says he chased 
HSBC after approximately two weeks, when no response had been received to the loan 
application. It was at this time he found out that the correspondence e-mail address hadnt 
been updated. As Mr H had no response to the loan application, he applied for the loan 
again. This was approved by HSBC and the loan was drawn down.  
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr H complained to HSBC on behalf of B. In its response 
to the complaint, HSBC apologised that the e-mail address on the business account wasnt 
updated. And it said that the representative concerned would receive appropriate feedback. 
It credited Bs bank account with £200 as compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr H responded on behalf of B and said that it had suffered reputational damage as a result 
of delays with the loan application. And he said that he had had no response to contacts he 
had made with HSBC. He remained dissatisfied with the service it had provided to B. 
In July 2020 Mr H complained to HSBC again on behalf of B. This was because a significant 
payment from Bs bank account had been stopped for fraud checks. And Bs online banking 
access had also been frozen for a period of time.  Mr H believed that B was being 
discriminated against.
HSBC responded to the complaint. It explained that the account terms and conditions 
provided for additional fraud checks. It also said the payment was picked up by its fraud 
department to establish whether it was genuine or not. This was because it wasnt in line 
with the usual patterns on the account. A representative from its fraud team had tried to 
contact B on the numbers it held for it. As no contact could be made to establish if the 
payment was genuine, it was reversed to protect the funds.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the responses received from HSBC, so he referred his concerns 
on behalf of B to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. And he 
wrote to Mr H explaining why he didnt think HSBC needed to do any more than it had done 
already to resolve the complaint. And he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it 
stopped the payment as a result of its concerns over fraud. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary he said:
HSBC had disadvantaged B and tarnished its reputation. 
It hadnt helped B get the loan it had asked for by holding incorrect information on its 
file. This caused delays in the loan being provided.
He had been provided with a phone number for an employee of HSBC by mistake.
He had spent a few hours over a couple of days to convince the fraud team his 
details were correct. 
His company e-mail had been accessed by another or previous owner. And it could 
have been accessed by the previous owner. 
Incorrect information was held on Bs account. This resulted in B being 
disadvantaged for over two years. 
In response the investigator said that no evidence had been provided to support the claim for 
reputational damage and consequential losses, as a result of processing the loan 
application. He went on to say that an ombudsman would need to see evidence to support 
any losses that B may have incurred. And he asked Mr H to provide this evidence. 
The investigator wrote to Mr H again responding to the points he had made and informing 
him that the case would be passed to an ombudsman for review. In summary he said:
In relation to the incorrect contact details, he said that no evidence had been 
provided which showed the business had been disadvantaged or its reputation 
affected. 
The loan had been granted but he accepted there had been some delays in it being 
processed. 
The phone number he had been given was an HSBC staff member. This shouldnt 
have happened, but he didnt think this was a data breach in relation to B. 
He accepted that the phone verification problems must have been frustrating, but this 
was due in part to Mr H not being registered for telephone banking. The other 
company director was though. 
It was wrong that HSBC held the wrong e-mail address. The bank mandate had been 
changed in 2018, so it was unlikely that anyone other than the account signatories 
would be able to make any changes to the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The complaint has been brought on behalf of B by Mr H. So, in considering the issues that 
Mr H has raised about HSBC on behalf of B, it is the impact on B that I need to think about, 
not Mr H as an individual. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that HSBC didnt update the bank account with Mr Hs e-
mail address when the mandate was changed in 2018. Its response to Mr Hs complaint in 
June 2020 appears to accept that. 
I think its understandable that Mr H had concerns that confidential information about Bs 
account could have been accessed by a former director of B, as a result of this. And I also 
understand that he was concerned on behalf of B that this may have resulted in the 
processing of the loan application being delayed.In assessing the impact of all of this on B, I need to consider whether the failings on the part 
of HSBC caused B direct financial loss and any inconvenience to its operations. In his 
response to the investigators view, Mr H said that e-mails to B from HSBC had been 
accessed / could have been accessed by the previous owner. Its not clear from what Ive 
seen, that e-mails were accessed by the previous director of B as a result of the e-mail 
address not being updated. Mr H has said that HSBCs error disadvantaged B. But its not 
clear to me how B may have been impacted by this. 
Our investigator asked Mr H to provide evidence as to how B had been impacted by HSBCs 
error. But Ive not seen enough evidence which suggests that this error caused B any direct 
or indirect financial loss. I say this because Ive not seen sufficient evidence which indicates 
how the e-mail address not being updated and the delay in processing the loan, impacted B 
financially. Or how this all resulted in its reputation being damaged. And without any 
evidence which shows HSBCs actions caused B financial losses, I am simply not able to 
make any findings to that effect or consider awarding any financial compensation.
In relation to the inconvenience caused to B, HSBC has paid it £200 compensation. I accept 
that getting the e-mail updated and chasing up HSBC in relation to the progress of the loan 
application, is likely to have caused B some operational inconvenience. But based on the 
information I have it doesnt appear that it took up any significant time for Mr H on Bs behalf. 
And I think as a result, the £200 HSBC paid B was enough to compensate it for the 
inconvenience caused by HSBCs error. 
Ive also thought about the payment that was stopped by HSBC. Again, I can understand 
why Mr H on behalf of B was concerned that the payment was stopped. The payment was a 
significant one. And HSBC has explained that it stopped the payment because in essence, it 
appeared to HSBC that the payment was outside the normal use of the account. And it 
stopped the payment as part of its fraud checks.
In my experience it isnt unusual for banks to sometimes stop payments such as the one B 
made, as part of their fraud prevention checks. And the intention of such checks is to protect 
customers and their accounts. 
Ive thought about what HSBC has said about why it stopped the payment and its attempts 
to verify it with B. I dont think it was wrong of HSBC to have stopped the payment and 
temporarily suspend its business internet banking, until it had been able to check with B that 
the payment was a genuine one. The terms and conditions of the business banking account 
that it has provided allowed it to do that.  
That doesnt seem to me to have been unreasonable action to take on its part, given the size 
of the payment and what it has said about it being outside the normal use of the account. 
And its records also show that it attempted to contact B on the numbers it held for it. So, Im 
satisfied that it took sufficient steps to verify the payment with B.
Mr H has said that B has been discriminated against by HSBC. But B is a legal entity not a 
person and cant be discriminated against in the context of the Equality Act. And as Ive said 
above, B is the complainant not Mr H. But I think the essence of Mr Hs concerns is that he 
doesnt think that HSBC has treated B fairly. 
I do understand and empathise with Mr H that these issues hes had to deal with on behalf of 
B have caused a great deal of concern, in what has been a very difficult period of time for 
businesses such as B. But for the reasons Ive given, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
by stopping the payment. And I dont think it needs to do anymore. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Bs complaint about HSBC 
UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman