DRN-4271139
The complaint
Mr F and Miss M complain that mistakes Barclays Bank UK PLC made when it completed 
their last remortgage, meant they werent able to secure further lending on their property, to 
support the purchase of a second property they said their family desperately needed.
What happened
Mr F and Miss M wanted to take out a second charge on their property. They said this was to 
buy a second property, which they told us their family desperately needed, for reasons I 
wont set out here. 
As part of this application, Mr F and Miss M discovered that, although their property is 
covered by two separate entries on the Land Registry, Barclays had only taken a first charge 
over one of these properties. 
An investigation showed this error had originated with Barclays. Barclays accepted that it 
made a mistake, as it had only asked its solicitors to place a charge over one of the two 
entries on the Land Registry. It agreed to pay the legal costs to put this right (which Mr F 
says are £1,081.20) and £400 in compensation. 
Mr F says he hasnt accepted this, and he says that because Barclays hasnt made 
payment, he wasnt able to complete the legal work. So he and Miss M werent able to 
secure the extra borrowing they wanted. 
Mr F and Miss M have shown us two mortgage illustrations they received. The first was 
dated 24 March 2022 describing the terms of possible lending of £137,000 at an initial rate of 
3.90%. The second was dated 15 June 2022 describing the terms of possible lending of 
£137,000 at an initial rate of 4.20%. Mr F said the later offer was only valid until 15 July 
2022. So it had since lapsed, and Mr F expected hed have to pay much more interest now. 
Mr F and Miss M have told us they then purchased the second property which they were 
intending to buy with the lending quotes above. They said theyd borrowed from family and 
friends to pay for this. Mr F and Miss M dont appear to have yet secured any lending. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Barclays had taken the correct steps to 
put things right, and offered compensation for the distress caused. He said although Mr F 
and Miss M believe theyve lost out financially, a mortgage illustration isnt a guarantee of 
lending. Their application would be subject to further detailed lending checks by the second 
lender. So our investigator couldnt say that a mortgage offer would have been made. Our 
investigator said our service wouldnt provide compensation for a hypothetical loss. 
Mr F replied on behalf of himself and Miss M. He said Barclays error had cost them tens of 
thousands of pounds, so he asked how our service could think £400 was appropriate 
compensation. He said that wouldnt help Barclays change its behaviour and not make such 
mistakes. Mr F said he couldnt align our services findings with the examples on our website 
of compensation amounts. And he wanted to know why Barclays still hadnt paid a penny. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this complaint. 
I understand that Mr F and Miss M feel strongly about this complaint. Ive been very sorry to 
hear about the difficult family circumstances they told us about. I hope that the second 
property, which they told us they have now purchased, has helped with this somewhat. 
I also understand that Mr F and Miss M blame Barclays for what has gone wrong here. They 
are firmly of the view that Barclays is the root cause of what they say is a very significant 
loss for them. I dont think its disputed that Barclays have made a mistake here. But the 
reason Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator, is that 
I havent been able to conclude that its most likely that Barclays is the direct cause of all the 
losses Mr F and Miss M have told us about. 
Barclays accepts it did make a mistake when it secured its lending to Mr F and Miss M over 
only one of the two legal titles that make up their property. But it has now offered the funds 
to put this right, and £400 in compensation for that. 
Mr F says this isnt enough to make Barclays do better in future. But our service isnt a 
regulator, and I cant make punitive awards against a business, aimed at making that 
business improve its service to other customers. I can only look at what has happened in this 
particular case.
Mr F and Miss M consider that if this mistake hadnt been made, they would have been able 
to secure lending in mid-2022, for the new property they wanted to purchase. I havent been 
able to decide thats whats most likely to have happened in this case, without the mistake 
Barclays made. 
Before I could make an award of the scale that Mr F and Miss M would wish, I would have to 
see that any borrowing from the second lender they had mortgage illustrations from, would 
not have been delayed anyway. Mr F shared part of a message from his broker, which 
suggests this lender wasnt willing to lend on a property made up of two separate titles. If 
that had remained the case, it seems likely that further lending from this lender would always 
have been delayed in order to allow the two titles to be merged. 
I havent asked Mr F and Miss M for more information to resolve that issue. Thats because 
even if having two separate titles for their property wasnt, in the end, an obstacle to lending 
to Mr F and Miss M, then I would still say, like our investigator, that I can only see that they 
were ever given mortgage illustrations for this lending. Thats not the same as an offer, and 
unfortunately its no guarantee that any offer will eventually be made.
I note that Mr F and Miss M still havent secured lending. Bearing in mind the circumstances 
of this case (including that their application didnt complete at the time they wanted this 
money, and they havent secured other bank lending since) I cannot say its most likely that 
Mr F and Miss M would have been successful in securing the second charge lending they 
wanted, if the problems with the charge hadnt occurred.Mr F said he hadnt been able to go ahead with any lending, because Barclays hadnt paid 
the money he needed to resolve the issue of title. But Mr F could have accepted Barclays 
offer at any time. I know Mr F didnt think he could then bring his complaint to us, but theres 
no suggestion of this in Barclays letter, and either Barclays or our service could easily have 
cleared up any confusion about this if Mr F had asked. I havent been able to see that it 
would be Barclays fault if Mr F had understood he couldnt accept its offer of payment, both 
in compensation and towards his solicitors fees, and still contest the compensation payment 
Barclays was making. 
For all the reasons set out above, I havent been able to conclude that its most likely that Mr 
F and Miss M could have secured the lending they have told us they were interested in, in 
early 2022, if it wasnt for the mistake Barclays made earlier in only registering its charge 
over one of their two property titles. 
I do accept that the process of putting this right has been prolonged and stressful for Mr F 
and Miss M, but because I havent been able to see that Barclays is responsible for all the 
consequences that Mr F and Miss M have described, I do think its offer, of £1,081.20 to 
cover legal fees and £400 in compensation, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. So thats what Ill now ask Barclays to pay, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr F and Miss M £1,081.20 to 
cover legal fees, and £400 in compensation, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman