DRN-2831675
The complaint
Ms P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) discriminated against 
her by refusing to make reasonable adjustments when she wanted to lodge a complaint with 
it. She is also concerned that it shared personal information with a third party without her 
knowledge or consent.
Background 
Ms P had a bank account with NatWest that had an overdraft facility. In 2020 the account 
went into arrears and eventually NatWest passed the debt onto a collections agency Ill call 
Z. Z then contacted Ms P to request payment on the outstanding balance. Initially Ms P 
didnt recall owing the money and explained this to Z. She was upset that NatWest had 
provided her information to Z and believed the debt must belong to someone else. 
Z then contacted NatWest explaining Ms P was unhappy shed been contacted and didnt 
believe the debt was hers. As a result of the conversation with Z NatWest began a formal 
complaint on Ms Ps behalf in order to investigate what had happened. However, in the 
meantime Ms P retraced the account and confirmed the outstanding balance was correct. 
When she realised a complaint had been raised on her behalf she was upset as this wasnt 
something that she had asked Z to do and felt as though a formal complaint had been raised 
in her name without her knowledge. She didnt think it was right that Z could do that without 
clarifying what was happening with her first. 
Ms P then contacted NatWest via an online social media platform to explain that she was 
unhappy with the fact that Z had raised a complaint in her name without her knowledge. She 
received a response advising her to contact NatWest by phone to escalate her concerns as 
the team on social media were unable to investigate it for her. Ms P explained that she was 
unable to contact the bank by phone and so the social media advisor provided her with a link 
that she could use to log the complaint online. Unfortunately, the link didnt work and so Ms 
P believes NatWest failed in its obligations to make reasonable adjustments for her under 
the Equality Act 2010 and so discriminated against her by failing to provide her with a 
suitable alternative to logging her complaint over the phone.  
In addition to the above concerns regarding what happened with Z, and her interaction with 
NatWest via social media, Ms P is also concerned that the bank shared personal information 
regarding her gender history with Z without her knowledge or consent. She believes 
NatWest are guilty of a criminal offence under the Gender Recognition Act 2004 and she has 
said it should provide a copy of the information it shares with third party agents with 
consumers so they can be assured the information passed on is relevant and doesnt 
contravene their privacy rights. 
NatWest has accepted that the information provided by the advisor on social media was 
incorrect and the link for logging a complaint didnt work. It apologised for this failing and 
provided Ms P with an initial voucher for £50 and an additional £150 compensation when 
she confirmed she was unable to use the voucher. It has also confirmed that the only 
information it provided to Z related to her name, date of birth, contact details and account 
balance. It has said it didnt provide any information regarding her gender history to Z. 
Ms P remained unhappy with NatWests response and requested it increased the 
compensation awarded from £200 to £500 as she believed this was more in line with the sort 
of compensation that would be provided by a court in regard to discrimination complaints. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps complaint already. She found that the issues 
related to Z referring a complaint to NatWest on Ms Ps behalf and what happened when she 
contacted the bank for help via social media both relate to complaint handling disputes and 
as such fall outside of this services jurisdictional remit. As such she explained she was 
unable to investigate this aspect of Ms Ps complaint or comment on whether or not NatWest 
had failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. 
However she did consider whether or not NatWest had disclosed personal information 
regarding Ms Ps gender history with Z. She explained this part of Ms Ps complaint was 
linked to a regulated activity, i.e. debt collection, and so was something she could look into 
under our rules and regulations. Having done so she found that NatWest only provided the 
basic information needed to Z, regarding Ms Ps contact details, account information, name 
and date of birth. As such she didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong and so she 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms P disagreed with our investigators findings and was upset that she hadnt addressed the 
allegations of discrimination made in response to the information she had received on social 
media. She asked for an ombudsman to reconsider her complaint and so the case has been 
passed to me. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to address is whether or not this service has the legal authority to 
comment on or investigate, the problems Ms P experienced following Z contacting NatWest 
and her subsequent interaction with NatWest via social media. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative dispute resolution service, but were not 
free to deal with every complaint we receive. Were bound by our rules  which in turn flow 
from legislation  that set out the types of complaints we can look at. Those rules are 
maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and are published in the FCAs 
Handbook, under the heading DISP.
Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It covers 
such things as who is bringing the complaint, what its about, which business its about and 
time limits on how long after a person becomes aware of a problem they can wait before 
complaining about it. In relation to Ms Ps complaint the most relevant part of section 2 
relates to the definition of regulated activities and this can be found in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
Our investigator said as the first part of Ms Ps complaint was outside our jurisdiction. This is 
because the DISP rules state we can only comment on complaints about regulated activities. 
And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. In addition to that only a court of law can 
make a finding on whether or not the behaviour of a business could be defined as 
discriminatory under the Equality Act 2010. For these reasons she didnt comment on how 
NatWest had behaved in relation to those parts of Ms Ps complaint. I agree with our investigators interpretation of the rules. I know this will be a disappointment 
to Ms P and I want to assure her its not because we dont appreciate how distressing she 
found the experience or the negative impact it had on her. Rather our rules mean were not 
allowed to investigate the business behaviour in regard to Zs complaint referral to NatWest 
or what happened during her interaction with NatWest on social media. And so I cant 
comment on how NatWest responded to Ms Ps request for reasonable adjustments or Zs 
interaction with NatWest on her behalf. 
However, I can consider what happened when NatWest contacted Z and passed the initial 
debt to the agent for collections. This is because debt collection is a regulated activity as so 
falls inside our jurisdiction. 
NatWest has provided us with copies of the information it passed to Z when it initially 
contacted it regarding the outstanding balance on her account. I can confirm this information 
was limited to her name as it showed on the account, her date of birth, postal address, 
account details and the amount owed. There was no information provided regarding her 
gender history or previous title. As such I am satisfied that the information provided by 
NatWest to Z was appropriate and limited to the information it needed to pursue the debt and 
nothing else. So I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in relation to this aspect of Ms Ps 
complaint. 
Ms P has said that she was unaware that NatWest could pass on any debt to a third party 
agent and that she shouldve been made aware of this when opening her account. She 
believes it is unreasonable for the bank to rely on the fact that third part agents are 
referenced in the terms and conditions of the account and that someone shouldve taken the 
time to read these to her when she was opening the account to ensure that she fully 
understood what may happen with her information if the account went into arrears. 
I appreciate Ms P found it distressing that her information could be passed onto a third party 
without her knowledge and that it could then contact her directly to discuss issues relating to 
her NatWest account. I am satisfied that the terms and conditions do advise new customers 
that the bank may rely on third party agents to pursue unpaid debt when necessary. This is 
common to most banks and standard industry practice. So while I can understand why Ms P 
was surprised and concerned to hear her information had been passed onto an agent in this 
way I dont think NatWest behaved unreasonably when it did so. And I dont think its 
necessary for businesses to read through the entire terms and conditions to potential new 
customers when they open accounts. Businesses are require to ensure that its terms and 
conditions are available for consumers, for example either online or in printed format, and 
Im satisfied that NatWest met these requirements. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Ombudsman