DRN-2582827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold them mortgage 
endowment policies. 
What happened
This policy was with Legal and General (L&G) which has transferred some of its business to 
ReAssure. As a result, ReAssure is the respondent business in this complaint. But Ill refer to 
L&G or ReAssure as appropriate.
Mr and Mrs B say they were sold an initial mortgage endowment policy in 1995, with a top-
up policy sold in 1997. They say that they didnt have experience of mortgages, the adviser 
didnt extensively assess their attitude to risk, other options for repaying the mortgage 
werent discussed and they were told the endowment would repay their mortgage.
ReAssure doesnt have any information from the time of the first sale. In relation to the 
second sale, it said there was nothing found to show that a formal guarantee about the 
performance of the policy was given. It doesnt see anything, based on Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, to suggest the policy was unsuitable for them. And it pointed out 
that their attitude to risk in relation to mortgages and loans was said to be medium. In 
addition, it noted that the advantages and disadvantages of interest-only and repayment 
mortgages were discussed, and that Mr and Mrs B chose to proceed with the interest-only 
option. So ReAssure didnt uphold this complaint. 
Both policies were surrendered in May 2002. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He said that while there wasnt a record of 
Mr and Mrs Bs attitude towards risk from the time of the first sale, there was for the second 
sale; less than two years later. He noted it was a relatively short period of time and that there 
didnt seem to be any material differences in their circumstances between the two sales. He 
saw nothing to suggest the managed fund option Mr and Mrs B had been sold was 
inappropriate for a medium risk tolerance. And he felt that there was sufficient time between 
the end of the policy and their intended retirement ages to recover any shortfall in the 
policies. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They dont feel that theres sufficient proof that the earlier sale was 
suitable, and the amount involved was much higher - £35,625, rather than the top-up sale of 
£7,375. They say their attitude to risk at the time of the first sale was no risk rather than 
balanced and believe the policy was wholly unsuitable for their circumstances. Theyve said 
theres no indication of how a balanced attitude to risk was assessed or reached, and that 
they shouldve been guided to a repayment option. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, I dont uphold this 
complaint  and Ill explain why. 
The issue here is about advice given that led to endowment policies being sold. For the first 
sale, theres no documentation available and I havent been provided with any details about 
the policy besides what was entered into the application form for the top-up loan by 
Mr and Mrs B. Given the passage of time since the sale and the surrender of the policy  
both around or above 20 years  its understandable that neither party has information about 
the sale. All we know is some limited information about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time from their submissions. 
Moving on for a moment to the second sale, Ive seen nothing from Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances that leads me to think they wouldve had, or shouldve had, a particularly 
cautious approach to risk. Instead, the evidence available suggests they had a medium 
approach to it, meaning that they were prepared to take some risk in the hope of a better 
return on [their] investment in the future. While I dont know how this decision was assessed 
or reached, I think it would be very speculative to assume they wouldve elected for low 
now, so long after the sale of the policy. And it may be that, with the benefit of hindsight, if 
the policy didnt perform as hoped, Mr and Mrs B now feel they were sold policies that were 
too high risk. 
So while theres nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk at the time of the first sale, 
we have evidence of their view a couple of years later. I see no reason to think this wouldve 
been substantially different, given that their circumstances were largely unchanged. From 
what we do know about the policies at the time, they wouldnt generally have been 
considered to be high risk. Furthermore, the lending was well within normal lending criteria; 
the policies and mortgages appear to have been affordable; the mortgage options seem to 
have been discussed (in the second sale at least); and there dont appear to have been any 
guarantees made about the performance of the endowments. 
Ultimately, looking at the available evidence  which is minimal  Im not persuaded that I 
have enough to conclude that L&G, now ReAssure, did something wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman