DRN-4197285
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) did not act 
on his instructions as he wished and he lost out.
What happened
Mr M said he had three pensions with HLAM. A Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and 
SIPP income drawdown and a Group SIPP. They were all under the same client reference.
He said that in 2014 and 2015 he requested tax free amounts from his drawdown pension. In 
September 2020 he transferred around £48,000 into his SIPP. He then called HLAM on 15 
October 2020 to request a payment of £12,000 tax free cash from the SIPP being 25% of the 
amount he had transferred in and which he thought would be tax free. However the agent 
said it could only make gross income requests. He assumed he would be taxed at 20% and 
asked for £16,000 thinking he would get £12,000 net. However he actually received £9,440 
after tax which was a rate of 41% which HLAM said was in accordance with the tax code. He 
understood this was because it was taken from his drawdown account rather than from the 
new transfer in. Mr M said he was a vulnerable customer and felt that a professional 
organisation such as HLAM should have helped him to navigate the system correctly. He 
was clear that he expected the amount to be tax free and to be guided in the way to achieve 
that.
HLAM said they had completed the request correctly and they were not responsible for his 
personal tax position. It seemed Mr M had not understood that to access the 25% tax free 
from the transfer in it needed to be moved into an account that would enable that. In the past 
he have moved part of his SIPP into drawdown to take 25% tax free cash in 2014 and 2015.
It said in the telephone call with Mr M he specifically requested the payment from his 
drawdown account. This meant he was taking funds as taxable income and it was required 
to use the tax code provided by HMRC. With hindsight it believed that Mr M may have 
intended to request a further movement from either his SIPP or Group SIPP into his 
drawdown account and then to take up to 25% tax free. But that wasnt what he had asked 
them to do. They accepted they should have explained things better and explained the 
difference between requesting income from his drawdown account vs moving money into 
drawdown and then taking the 25% tax free cash. It said it understood he had then 
contacted HMRC and felt this must have caused inconvenience. It offered £150 
compensation and later increased this to £250.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said the following.
In order to make an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience I needed to 
decide if HLAM did anything wrong.
For the reasons set out below my provisional view was that it did something wrong. I said 
that for the following reasons:-
1. HLAM is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA sets out various 
principles for business. These include:
(a) Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly and
(b) Principle 7 - a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
2. I didnt think HLAM complied with those requirements in its dealings with Mr M. I said that 
because I had listened to the call with Mr M from October 2020 where he requested a lump 
sum payment. Mr M opened the call by saying
I want to make a withdrawal from one of my accounts.
After the agent completes security he then says,  a payment from your drawdown account 
was it sir?.
The agent didnt go back to the original request to seek clarification about it in terms of which 
account and why. I thought that the agent made an assumption that payment would be 
coming from the drawdown account and requested confirmation. Mr M says he wants to 
drawdown £12,000 as a lump sum. The agent then starts to discuss tax and whether this is 
net or gross. At this point Mr M reminds HLAM that he gets confused between net and gross 
and due to a health condition has problems with numbers and short-term memory. While the 
agent then explains the difference he didnt take this as a cue to step back and ask broader 
questions to ensure he has fully understood the request Mr M wants to make. 
Mr M clarifies that he needs £12,000 net and refers back to the fact he had two separate 
strains of income one from his drawdown and another from his SIPP. He is already paying 
tax on the drawdown but didnt know how much. The agent asks which account and Mr M 
repeats that there are two. But the agent tells Mr M he can only have one SIPP account. Mr 
M says it is quite simple he is seeking £12,000 net and that is what he has to get in the way 
that is most beneficial for tax purposes. He repeats that he doesnt want complication.
It is clear that there is confusion and Mr M repeats information about his health and the 
impact it has on him. But the agent does not take this as a second cue to step back and 
double check instead continuing to pursue the issue of net and gross. The agent quite 
reasonably makes clear that HLAM cannot calculate how much is needed gross to achieve 
the net payment. After Mr M confirms he pays tax at 25% he says he would need to take 
£16,000 and this is what the agent requests.
I think that the agent might reasonably have confirmed to Mr M which account he wished to 
take the money from and his options and how it might have been possible to take money tax 
free. But he doesnt explore or recheck what Mr M wants.
3. In its reply HLAM said
Mr M called our Helpdesk on the 15 October 2020 and requested an income payment from 
his HL SIPP Drawdown account. We are satisfied that we processed his instruction 
correctly...
But I didnt agree, having listened to the call, this was not correct as what he initially asked 
was money from one of his accounts and the agent didnt seek to clarify which one. Instead 
saying he can only have one SIPP and making an assumption about how he wanted to take 
money.HLAM said  Mr M held a number of accounts with HLAM when he called on the 15 
October 2020. As such, he had the option of requesting an income from his crystallised HL 
SIPP Drawdown account which is subject to income tax or he could crystallise funds held in 
his uncrystallised SIPP or Group SIPP, providing him access to 25% tax free cash.
This was not explained to Mr M on the call despite him being clear he had a number of 
strains of income and wanted to take money in the most tax efficient way.
4. HLAM accepts that it should have explained things more clearly. Had it done so on 
balance I think it is most likely the request would have proceeded in the manner Mr M 
wished because he was clear his aim was to take money tax efficiently.
5. In reaching this view I noted in passing that the FCA has issued guidance for firms dealing 
with vulnerable customers. It was my view that Mr M was vulnerable due to the health 
condition he disclosed on the call. However this guidance was issued in 2021 and post-dates 
these events so I have not applied that guidance in reaching my view.
6. I noted also that HLAM is execution only and was not offering Mr M financial advice about 
his request. I didnt think guiding him through his options for taking tax free cash was 
financial advice and was instead provision of information.
7. However notwithstanding this I thought Mr M gave enough indications that he had 
difficulties and it does not seem that HLAM took steps to ensure it clearly understood what 
he wanted or to guide him through his choices. I think Principle 7 indicates HLAM should 
have had regard to his information needs and explaining things in a manner that was clear 
and not misleading.
8. The investigator asked HLAM what reasonable adjustments it made for Mr Ms health 
issues. It showed a note from its records in 2018 where Mr M disclosed his illness. But it 
notes he said he felt he would make a full recovery and Mr M did not ask it to make any 
allowance following this. It made a note on the system so that its staff would be aware when 
he called. It said Mr M did not tell them it impaired his communication or management of his 
investments and therefore its response was reasonable and proportionate at the time. But I 
didnt agree, while that might have been appropriate in 2018 the circumstances were 
different at the time of the call. Mr M made further specific disclosures about his condition, 
during the telephone call and the impact these had on him particularly in relation to memory 
and numbers. So I think it was clear that the position had changed from that disclosed in 
2018. HLAM made no attempt to react to the disclosures in the light of what it was being 
told.
9. But even if I was wrong it was clear that the agent made assumptions and did not check 
which account or pick up on Mr Ms request to take money from one of his accounts or as he 
later calls them strains and in a tax efficient manner. There was no exploration of the 
approach which Mr M said he wanted.
10. It also came to my attention that Mr M had made an application in September 2020 to 
withdraw tax free cash associated with the transfer in (of around £48,000). HLAM says that 
due to an administrative error this was not processed. (In that application Mr M asked for 
£15,000). His covering letter with this application was clear that he wanted to take tax free 
cash associated with the transfer in. I said that because he referred to the transfer in of the 
policy from another provider in his letter and then said
I have also requested that I drawdown the sum of £15,000 as part of my tax free 25% lump 
sum payment from this policy.Had that been processed then Mr M would not have needed to make the further call that he 
did and which resulted in him taking funds subject to tax.
In summary I thought that HLAM failed to make reasonable adjustments for the health 
challenges that Mr M clearly disclosed on the call and on more than one occasion. I thought 
it failed to comply with principle 6 and 7 because of that. I didnt think the adviser 
implemented his request but instead made an assumption without asking further questions 
or fully explaining Mr Ms options (something HLAM accepts). Further its failure to process 
the application made in September 2020 meant that Mr M then had to call in October which 
resulted in the confusion.
As I concluded that HLAM made a mistake I could make an award for financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience.
In terms of financial loss my objective was to put Mr M as closely as possible back into the 
position he would have been in but for the mistake.
I thought the impact was that Mr M has paid more tax than he would have, had it been 
managed as he wished. However Mr M was still able to withdraw the tax-free lump sum that 
he originally wished to take, so he has not lost out in that respect. So I thought his loss was 
either:-
1. paying tax on money sooner than might otherwise have been the case or
2. paying tax at a higher rate due to the funds being withdrawn in a lump sum manner that 
pushed him into higher rate taxation or
3. possibly paying tax that he might never have had to pay because he didnt withdraw the 
funds ever.
I was required to make a decision that is fair and reasonable. On balance having considered 
each of these options it seemed clear that Mr M wished to avoid paying more tax. So I 
thought it was fair to say he had paid more tax than would have been the case and sooner. 
For that reason I proposed that HLAM should pay Mr M the difference between the amount 
of income tax he was required to pay on his withdrawal and the amount that would have 
been paid had income tax been applied at the lowest basic rate.
I noted that Mr M lives in an area of the United Kingdom where income tax is paid at a 
different rate to that in England. HLAM will need to work with Mr M to work out the difference 
between basic rate and the rate of income tax he actually paid.
Further HLAM should pay simple interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per annum from 
the date of payment of the tax by Mr M to the date of HLAMs payment to Mr M pursuant to 
this decision.
Such payment should be made directly to Mr M rather than into his SIPP accounts.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award was not intended to 
punish HLAM but to reflect the impact of these events on Mr M. I think the impact has been 
considerable. I say that because Mr M is clearly frustrated that his request was not acted on 
in the manner he hoped and despite being clear that he had difficulties due to a health 
condition. Further he has been put to trouble in making this complaint and it is only through 
making it that the failure of the September 2020 application has emerged. For those reasons 
I proposed an award of £500 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. To the extent 
that HLAM had already paid £250 it need only pay a further £250.I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited should pay Mr M the amounts I proposed for financial loss and distress 
and inconvenience.
HLAM said that at the very start of the phone call, Mr M clearly refers to his drawdown 
account which it believed informed the course that the call took, focussing on the drawdown 
account, although it accepted that Mr M did then mention his other accounts later in the call. 
Additionally, it was of the opinion, that once made aware of Mr Ms issues the call handler 
did adapt his style, modifying the pace and tone of the call and trying to provide Mr M with 
reassurance.
Mr M said:-
HLAM have referred to him making two withdrawals in 2014 and 2015, whereas he 
said he made one. The second was returned.
Between 2017 and 2019 he undertook to amalgamate several Employer pension 
funds which were accrued over his working life, with HLAM, including the fund of 
£48K.
By early 2019, the sum of his pension funds, in two HLAM accounts, Group SIPP and 
SIPP was in the region of £120,000.
In September 2018 he suffered an illness
He requested a withdrawal of £15,000 from his HLAM pension fund as part of his tax-
free allowance. This was never acknowledged, and no reason for refusal given.
Shortly after, he made a second request to withdraw £12K tax-free as part of his tax-
free allowance. This amount was subsequently raised, after communication with an 
HLAM agent, (that telephone call) to £16,000.
HLAM would not advise on tax liabilities during this phone call.
HLAM stated during that phone call that he could only have one SIPP account, 
despite having two in his name.
Both figures, the £12,000 and £16,000 were within his tax-free allowance of two 
pension funds, well below the 25% tax-free threshold limit of the aggregate total.
On completion of this transaction, HLAM delivered £9,440.00 to his bank account 
advising that the remainder was paid to the Inland Revenue as tax due on his 
pension withdrawal.
HLAM had later admitted that they did not account for his fund transfer (value 
£48,000) when dealing with these requests for withdrawal of monies.
As is typical HLAM have used references to Pension Law and procedures in their 
communications where a lay person would find difficulty in understanding at best, 
e.g. one of the first things HLAM inferred was that he was proficient in matters 
pension throughout refutation of my complaint. He considered himself as defined as 
a reasonable man on the upper floor of the Clapham omnibus. It was HLAM who are 
professionally qualified in matters pension, taxation and asset management.
HLAM had made offers of compensation, in communications during this complaint. He had refused all offers to date.
He requested that any calculations, should be carried out by an independent third 
party to be paid for by HLAM as it is they, who made the mistake. He no longer had 
dealings with HLAM and no longer trusted them.
HLAM were a self-professed market leader in Asset Management. They exact fees 
for this service, and as such they owe a duty of care, competence, and proficiency to 
investors/clients. In this instance, they appear to have forgotten these tenets.
To define the amount of compensation, HLAM should proffer proof of any previous 
payment made to him, otherwise their statement is false. He left the final amount up 
to me, but asked that I should be aware that he had been inconvenienced and 
worked an additional two years to make good the deficit in his finances caused by 
this situation.
He was an investor, who may be considered a lay person in global matters of finance 
and pension law. Two withdrawals, plus one failed; five investment transactions: over 
a period of nine years, did not make him an expert.
The monies in his award have not yet been quantified. His contention was that this 
should be the balance of the £16K tax-free withdrawal. These are the monies that 
were erroneously paid to the Inland Revenue, i.e. £6,560.00 (He was taxed at 41% - 
Scottish tax system). The interest calculation he remained unsure of the method of 
computation; either compound over the time of the claim, or simple based on the 
capital sum, all by your good self.
In terms of an award for inconvenience and distress, again, only the Ombudsman 
can fairly set the amount, in addition however, he would like to see a letter of 
apology, complete with explanation of the reasons why they acted as they did, 
published with my report on my web page.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the responses to my provisional decision. I note what HLAM have said but 
do not agree for the reasons given in my provisional decision. Further I would note that even 
if I am wrong and the adviser, did as they say, modify his style pace and tone I think more 
was needed to draw out what Mr M wanted. Further HLAM accepts that it should have 
explained the options better, but didnt.
With respect to the comments made by Mr M I have noted these but have not responded to 
them all in detail as they do not all affect the outcome of my decision.
I am not able to direct an independent third party makes the calculation of loss, but I dont 
think there is a need. HLAM will need to provide Mr M with details of its calculation so that it 
can be checked, if needed. I do not need to put HLAM to proof of the previous withdrawals 
as they do not affect my conclusion in this complaint.
HLAM has already accepted that it could have handled the process better than it did. My 
final decision will be published so there is in my view no need for a further letter of apology. 
It would not in any event be published on the website for this service but be a private matter 
between HLAM and Mr M.I note Mr Ms comments about the interest payment but this service makes awards of simple 
interest and this is the approach I have taken.
I note his comment about his loss but as he is still able to take the tax-free cash I think the 
award I proposed is fair and reasonable for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right HLAM should do the following:-
1. HLAM should pay Mr M the difference between the amount of income tax he was 
required to pay on his withdrawal and the amount that would have been paid had 
income tax been applied at the lowest basic rate that would have been applicable to 
him at the time. HLAM will need to work with Mr M to work out the difference 
between the basic rate of income tax that should have been applied and the rate of 
income tax he actually paid.
HLAM should pay simple interest on that amount at the rate of 8% per annum simple 
from the date of payment of the tax by Mr M or, deduction by HLAM if sooner, to the 
date of HLAMs payment to Mr M pursuant to this decision.
HLAM should pay Mr M a total of £500 for distress and inconvenience but to the 
extent that it has already paid £250 it need only pay a further £250.
Such payments should be made directly to Mr M rather than into his SIPP accounts.
If HLAM believes it should deduct tax from the amount paid in interest it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate for such deduction suitable for submission to HMRC.
HLAM shall provide Mr M with a copy of its detailed calculation in a form that will enable him 
to understand and check its calculation of the amount payable under this direction.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must within 30 days of this 
service notifying it that Mr M has accepted my decision, calculate and pay the amount set 
out above in the section putting things right for financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience and take the actions regarding the provision of information set out in that 
section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman