DRN-3884553
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about Santander Consumer (UK) Plcs response to dealing with 
problems shes had with a car it supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
Mrs B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander so she could get a car. The 
car was a little over six years old at the time, with a cash price of £6,081. Mrs B paid a 
deposit of £2,000 with Santander providing the balance, to be repaid over three years.
Shortly after taking delivery of the car, Mrs B started to experience problems with it. She 
says the car went into limp mode, and while she took it to the dealer for repair, within a few 
days the problem returned. Several problems were identified and work carried out on the 
vehicle. Mrs B describes that the car was with the garage for around four months. During 
that time she was provided with a number of courtesy cars.
But after Mrs B picked up the car the limp mode problem arose again, this time while driving 
on the motorway with her children. After having the car towed home, Mrs B raised her 
concerns with Santander.
Santander obtained a report from A, an independent engineer. A said the car had an 
excessive oil level, concluding that this could not have been the position at the point of 
supply. On this basis, Santander said it wasnt liable to Mrs B. Mrs B was unhappy with this 
and Santander told her she could refer her complaint to us.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in Mrs Bs favour. She noted the 
obligations implied into the contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); particularly 
that there was a duty to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality. Even taking into account 
the age and price of the car, the investigator considered the problems Mrs B had described 
with the car from an early stage were indicative that it was not of satisfactory quality. The 
investigator didnt think As report dealt with those problems. Because of this, she didnt think 
it reasonable for Santander to rely on the report to defend the claim.
The investigator proposed that Santander end the agreement and collect the car, with no 
further cost to Mrs B. She also suggested that Santander refund  with interest  Mrs Bs 
deposit and reimburse a proportion of the money shed paid under the agreement to reflect 
the impaired use of the car. And she recommended that it pay Mrs B £200 compensation in 
recognition of her distress and inconvenience.
Mrs B said she would accept this outcome. But Santander didnt agree with the investigators 
findings. It said the problems could be due to wear and tear, given the age of the vehicle. It 
again referenced the conclusions of As report. And it said the current problem could be 
down to the excessive oil contaminating the cars throttle, rather than inherent at the point of 
supply. Santander has also forwarded a copy of a letter it received from the car dealers 
legal representative, stating confidence the car was in satisfactory condition when supplied.
The matter has now been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reviewing this complaint, I share the investigators concerns over whether it was right for 
Santander to rely so heavily on As report. As report was based on the condition of the car 
at the time it was carried out. It noted that there was an excessive oil level and suggested 
this as the cause of the faults reported on the cars management system. The report 
concluded that this could not have been the case when the car was supplied.
But there is a clear record of Mrs B having reported the limp mode issue on several 
occasions very soon after she got the car. So if the fault A identified wasnt present at the 
point of supply, it seems logical to conclude that something else must have been causing the 
problems she experienced. Regrettably, the report didnt include any further efforts to 
establish whether there were any other underlying problems, or the root cause of why the 
car was losing power months earlier, which was the nature of Mrs Bs claim.
Given Mrs Bs evidence about the problems she experienced with the car and her comments 
about it being with the garage for several months, there was a clear line of enquiry that 
should have prompted further investigation. I dont consider Santander to have acted 
reasonably in accepting As report as evidence that the car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. It makes no supported commentary about the condition at point of supply, possibly 
because once the current problem was identified, no further investigation took place. As 
such, I cant accept the report as persuasive evidence that Santander has done enough to 
demonstrate it met the CRA requirements when supplying the car.
The fact that Mrs B first experienced the problems with the car within a very short amount of 
time indicates to me that they were likely to have been present when the car was supplied. 
Her first contact with the garage about the limp mode problem was within a couple of weeks 
of that point. It happened again around a fortnight later. And the car was then with the 
garage for some months. Mrs B says she was told it might need a new engine. Id expect all 
of this to suggest to Santander that a car that displayed this sort of repeat problem and 
potentially required such extensive work couldnt really be said to have been of satisfactory 
quality, even taking into account its age and mileage.
After carefully considering the circumstances, Im not satisfied that the car supplied to Mrs B 
was of satisfactory quality, as required under the CRA. I dont consider the dealers legal 
representatives letter gives me any reason to reach a different conclusion. It simply states 
the dealers position without providing any useful information about the cars condition at 
point of supply. 
Mrs B has been caused frustration and inconvenience in her dealings with Santander, and it 
would undoubtedly have been a frightening experience for her and her family for the car to 
break down on the motorway. Shes had to pay out substantial amounts towards a car of 
which shes had significantly impaired use and was entitled to reject. She should be 
compensated for these things, and she should certainly not have to pay anything further 
towards the agreement, which should be terminated.
I appreciate some of the impaired use was addressed by the provision of courtesy cars. So 
looking at matters as a whole, I think its reasonable Santander should be entitled to retain 
some of the payments received under the conditional sale agreement. But its only fair that 
the majority of this is returned to Mrs B, along with her deposit.Putting things right
To address matters Santander should, within 28 days of receiving Mrs Bs acceptance of this 
decision, take the following steps:
1. collect the car from Mrs B at no additional cost to her
2. cancel Mrs Bs conditional sale agreement effective 1 June 2022 (which is the point 
by which I consider Santander ought to have dealt appropriately with the claim), with 
no further payments due from her after this date. Santander should ensure this is 
reflected in the information it has recorded on Mrs Bs credit file
3. return any payments Mrs B has made under the credit agreement since 1 June 2022
4. pay Mrs B £2,000, representing the deposit she paid for the car
5. pay Mrs B £500 by way of a reduction to the monthly payments due under the 
agreement between July 2021 and May 2022 to reflect her impaired use of the car
6. pay Mrs B interest on the sum of any money due under 3. to 5. at 8% simple 
annually, calculated from 1 June 2022 until the date it pays this settlement. If 
Santander deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mrs B with an appropriate 
tax deduction certificate should she request one
7. pay Mrs B £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been caused 
by the way it handled matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
take the steps Ive set out in 1 to 7 above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman