DRN-4262903
The complaint
Ms P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved loan applications. 
What happened
Ms P had an existing loan with Lloyds and in January 2019 applied for a new loan. Ms P said 
she was living with family and employed with a monthly income of £1,551. No details of 
regular outgoings were provided. Ms Ps application said she wanted to borrow £21,527.51 
to consolidate her existing loan and other debts. Lloyds says it applied its lending criteria and 
approved the loan. Lloyds also says Ms P used the funds to repay her existing loan which 
was around £3,500 with the remainder released to her current account. £900 was used to 
repay the overdraft facility, which was then cancelled and £3,200 was used to repay a credit 
card in Ms Ps name. A further £3,400 was used to repay a credit card and £9,300 to repay a 
loan  both with other businesses. Lloyds says the rest was retained by Ms P totalling 
around £1,200. 
In May 2021 Ms P made a loan application for £5,000 with Lloyds. In this application, Ms P 
confirmed she was still residing with family. Lloyds used a regular outgoing figure of £695 a 
month and says it took Ms Ps declared income of £2,007 into account. Lloyds says that it 
checked Ms Ps credit file and applied its lending criteria before approving the loan 
application. 
Last September, Ms P contacted Lloyds and explained she was experiencing some 
difficulties making payments. Lloyds agreed a reduced payment plan for both loans over six 
months. 
Ms P complained to Lloyds and said it had lent irresponsibly when approving her loans. Ms 
P also said the interest rate wasnt made clear when she applied and is unfairly high. Lloyds 
issued a final response on 14 March 2023 but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt 
uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ps complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt 
with Ms Ps case fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Ms P asked to appeal and 
said shed only applied for a loan after being contacted by the bank. Ms P also said the 
interest rates being charged were too high. As Ms P asked to appeal, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Ive looked at Ms Ps loan application from January 2019. I can see that Ms P gave 
information about her circumstances, including that she was living with family without making 
regular rent payments. Lloyds completed a credit search and found various commitments in 
Ms Ps name. But the loan application was made for debt consolidation purposes. So whilst I 
accept Ms P had other credit in her name, Im satisfied Lloyds factored that in when 
assessing how much she could afford to borrow. And I can see from Ms Ps bank statements 
that the majority of the funds were used to repay other unsecured credit. 
Ive considered the information available to Lloyds in addition to the checks it carried out in 
January 2019. Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds failed 
to carry out reasonable or proportionate checks or that if lent irresponsibly.  
Ms P applied for another loan in May 2021.  This loan was also for debt consolidation 
purposes and for £5,000. Ms P gave a rent figure of £695 and a monthly income figure of 
£2,007. Lloyds applied its lending criteria and looked at Ms Ps credit file. Again, Lloyds says 
the application was fairly approved on the basis that the loan repayments appeared 
affordable, in addition to Ms Ps existing commitments. I understand Ms P has since 
experienced difficulties maintaining repayments, but Im satisfied that Lloyds reasonably 
approved the second loan application based on what it knew about Ms P. I havent been 
persuaded that Lloyds lent irresponsibly or treated Ms P unfairly. 
Ms Ps told us that the interest rate charged is unreasonably high for both loans. But Lloyds 
has provided copies of the loan agreements that both confirm the relevant interest rates of 
Ms Ps loans. And the affordability of Ms Ps loan applications was assessed on the basis of 
the repayments set out in the loan agreements. So whilst I understand Ms Ps view is that 
the interest rate charged is unfairly high, Im satisfied Lloyds made it clear before she agreed 
to proceed with the loans. 
I also think its fair to add that Lloyds has pointed out that Ms Ps loans were predominantly 
used for debt consolidation purposes, with the intention or bring her borrowing into one 
place. I can see that Ms P did use the majority of the funds released to repay existing debt. 
In my view, that reinforces Lloyds view that the loans were fairly approved in full knowledge 
of Ms Ps circumstances and financial position at the time. 
Lloyds has confirmed that Ms Ps loans were placed on a six month payment arrangement 
and that if she is still experiencing difficulties making payments she has the option of 
contacting its customer services team. Businesses are obliged to treat customers that are 
experiencing financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. So if Ms P requires further 
support going forward, she has the option of contacting Lloyds. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms P but as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman