DRN-2278839
The complaint
Mr C says that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) incorrectly treated a 
transaction on his card as a cash related transaction and applied interest which he shouldnt 
have been charged. 
What happened
Mr C has a credit card account with Creation. In May 2020, he used the card for an online 
transaction with a business which Ill call R. Creation treated the transaction as a cash 
related transaction and charged interest on it. Mr C didnt think the transaction should have 
been treated in this way, so he complained and asked Creation to refund the interest.
Creation didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had applied the interest in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs account. Mr C wasnt happy with Creations response, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. He says that his payment shouldnt be treated as a 
cash related transaction and that Creations terms and conditions dont define this 
adequately. He doesnt think its fair for Creation to rely on the terms and conditions which 
were sent to him around two years ago. Hes also unhappy that, even though he paid off his 
May statement balance in full, he was charged further interest on the transaction in his June 
statement.
Our investigator didnt think Creation needed to do anything here. But Mr C didnt agree and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He wants Creation to refund the 
interest hes paid and pay him compensation for the time hes spent dealing with this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Creations terms and conditions define a Cash Advance as an advance of monies made to 
you or on your behalf, or to an Additional Cardholder or on the Additional Cardholders 
behalf, including but not limited to cash, foreign currency, travellers cheques or cash related 
transactions.
Mr C has an account with R. He has explained that, when he made the payment to R using 
his Creation credit card, he was topping up his account with R. He was then able to make 
purchases using the funds from his account with R.
On that basis, I think it was reasonable for Creation to treat the transaction as a Cash 
Advance. Mr C was using the Creation credit card as a way of putting funds into the account 
he holds with R. I think its fair to describe that as an advance of monies to Mr C. So I find 
that the nature of Mr Cs transaction means it falls within the definition of a Cash Advance.
This is supported by information on Mr Cs statements. The statements contain a page of 
information about certain aspects of his account such as balance transfers and online 
account management. It includes a section about Cash Advances, which it says are subject 
to Mr Cs account terms and conditions. There are two bullet points in the Cash Advance 
section of the page. One says that Mr C can use his card to withdraw cash from ATMs. The 
other says that he can transfer cash directly into his bank or Building Society account. Its 
apparent from this that Creation views both types of transactions as Cash Advances. Theyre 
examples of advances of monies which will be treated as a Cash Advance.
Its clear from this that, if Mr C were to use his credit card to put money into a bank or 
Building Society account, Creation would view this as a Cash Advance. I think his use of the 
card to put funds into his account with R is analogous to topping up a bank or Building 
Society account. So I think it was reasonable for Creation to treat it as a Cash Advance.
I note that the amount of the payment to R exceeded Mr Cs cash limit. Creation says that, if 
a transaction is flagged by the card scheme as a purchase (as opposed to a cash 
transaction), it doesnt trigger the cash limit parameter which is programmed into Creations 
system. It says its likely thats why this transaction was able to go through, even though it 
exceeded the cash limit. I think thats a reasonable explanation.
This leads on to the issue of the codes used by the card scheme when processing the 
transaction. Mr C says that the code used in this case was the code used to indicate a 
purchase, as opposed to a cash withdrawal or cash advance. Creation says it cant now look 
at records as far back as May 2020 to see which code was used, but it accepts its likely the 
purchase code was used by the card scheme here. Mr C says that use of this code shows 
that the transaction wasnt cash related. He says the card scheme would have had to use a 
different code in order for Creation to treat the transaction as a Cash Advance. 
I find that the way Creation treats a transaction is a matter for Creation to decide, in line with 
its terms and conditions. While the codes used are likely to be indicative of how the 
transaction will be treated in many cases, I dont find that use of a particular code by a third 
party obliges Creation to treat the transaction in that way. I think it was reasonable for 
Creation to treat the transaction as a Cash Advance in the circumstances here, even though 
the card scheme categorised it differently.
I understand that Mr C had used his card to make payments to R before May 2020 and that 
those transactions werent treated as Cash Advances. Creation says that those transactions 
werent picked up by its system, which was a mistake. But it has confirmed that it wont apply 
any retrospective interest in respect of those transactions, which I think is fair.
As the transaction in May was identified as a Cash Advance, Creation was entitled to charge 
interest on it in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account. They provide that 
interest on Cash Advances is charged from the day of the transaction until repayment is 
made in full. Unlike Standard Purchases (as defined in the terms and conditions), there is no 
interest free period on Cash Advances. 
Mr C completed the transaction with R on 1 May 2020, so interest started accruing on that 
date. His statement dated 25 May set out the interest on the Cash Advance calculated up to 
21 May. Payment was due by 10 June and Mr C settled the balance in full on 1 June. So, 
under the terms and conditions, Mr C had to pay interest on the transaction from 1 May (the 
date of the transaction) to 1 June (the date it was repaid in full). By settling the May 
statement balance, he had paid the interest up to 21 May. But interest continued to accrue in 
the period from 22 May to 1 June. This was included on Mr Cs June statement. Im satisfied 
that Creation applied its terms and conditions correctly here.Im also satisfied that Mr C was bound by the terms and conditions, which he agreed to by 
opening and continuing to use the account. I realise that he hadnt looked at them recently. 
But that doesnt mean they dont apply or that Creation cant rely on them. And much of the 
information which is relevant here is summarised on Mr Cs statements.
 
I know Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and will find my decision disappointing. But I 
dont think Creation has made a mistake or acted unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask it to 
do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman