DRN-2034365
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
Marks & Spencer Chargecard account. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so to keep things 
simpler Ill just refer to Allianz as the seller in this decision.
What happened
Mrs G opened the account and took out the PPI policy in 1991. The policy cost 64p for every 
£100 owed on the account and covered Mrs G if she couldnt work. 
Mrs G told us she was unhappy that shed been paying for a policy she didnt want or need.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide how it should be 
settled. 
Mrs G mainly said that she only took out the PPI because it was  recommended to her. And 
she told us that if shed properly understood what PPI was, she wouldnt have signed for it 
as her work benefits meant PPI wasnt something she needed
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why
I think Allianz made Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. Ive 
no reason to doubt that Mrs G is sure about what shes told us she remembers. She recalls 
taking out the card in a store  Allianz says she filled in a postal application. But however 
she applied for her card, this doesnt make any overall difference to the outcome. 
Even if Mrs G took out the card whilst shopping in the store, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mrs G to be able to recall word for word what was said about the PPI. So what Mrs G 
says about the way she was sold this PPI isnt enough for me to be able to uphold this 
complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
Ive seen the application form Mrs G completed. Shes ticked the box for PPI next to where it 
says We strongly recommend you take this cover by ticking the box.
Thats not wording that wouldve been used if Mrs G didnt have any choice about taking it 
out  and it doesnt say anywhere that applicants had to take out PPI. 
And this was standard wording on a printed application form for anyone to use, so I dont 
think it likely Mrs G would have taken this to be a personal recommendation for her. 
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs G at the time that she could choose PPI if she 
wanted to but she didnt have to have it as she couldve left the box unticked if PPI wasnt 
something she had wanted. Its easy to understand though why Mrs G mightve forgotten this 
now, given that she completed the application so long ago. 
Looked at overall, I think Allianz made Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. 
Allianz says it didnt recommend the policy personally to Mrs G  and based on what we 
know about how Allianz sold PPI, whether she took it out in a store or applied by post, I think 
thats probably right. 
Mrs G told us shed have got 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months and 
she had some savings (between £2000 and £3000) she couldve relied on. 
But if Mrs G had successfully claimed on the policy when she was too unwell to work, it 
wouldve paid out 15% of the account balance each month until Mrs Gs outstanding balance 
at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she was well enough to go back to work. 
This wouldve given her peace of mind and allowed her to use any payments from her 
employer to meet other expenses at what I think is likely to have been a difficult time for her 
 especially if she mightve had extra costs as a result of being unwell or disabled. 
The policy would also have paid out if shed lost her job. No job is guaranteed to be secure 
indefinitely. Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs G if she was off 
work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got 
if shed lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
So I think the policy couldve been useful to Mrs G and she couldve benefitted from having 
it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But there was a brief description of the policy benefits on the application form next to 
where Mrs G signed up to have it. So it appears that Mrs G wanted the benefits and security 
having the policy offered her. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover  but Mrs G wasnt affected by any of those 
exclusions or limitations. So I dont think having more information about these policy terms 
wouldve put her off taking out the PPI.
I think that Allianz couldve explained the cost and benefits of the policy more clearly. But 
theres some information about how much Mrs G would pay for the policy on the application 
form she completed. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for it resulted in Mrs G having 
any money problems. And she couldve cancelled the policy at any time if her circumstances 
had changed and paying for the cover became unaffordable for her. 
Looking at the overall benefit the policy offered, I think it unlikely Mrs G wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.This means she isnt any worse off as a result of anything Allianz did wrong, so I dont think it 
needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman