DRN-4213655
Complaint
Miss B has complained about a loan Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to her.
Background
Bamboo provided Miss B with a loan for £7,000.00 in October 2020. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £245. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Miss Bs complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo says it agreed to Miss Bs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view all of this information showed Miss B 
could afford to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, 
Miss B has said she should never have been provided with this loan because it was 
unaffordable. Ive carefully thought about what Miss B and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Bamboo carried out a credit check on Miss B. So I dont 
think that this was a case of Bamboo simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of 
monthly disposable income at face value. Bamboos credit search shows that Miss B had 
some existing debts. But this wasnt excessive when compared to Miss Bs monthly income. 
Furthermore, this loan was taken out for the purposes of debt consolidation. I know that it did 
increase the length of time Miss B would have to make payments for. But theres no 
doubting that Miss B would have been able to afford the repayments and would have had an 
increased monthly disposable income as long as Miss B closed her accounts once the 
balances were repaid rather than spending further on them.  
Equally, as this was Miss Bs first loan with Bamboo, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that it wouldnt be increasing her existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. This is especially as there wasnt anything obvious in 
the information gathered during this application which leads me to think that even further 
checks would have been reasonable and proportionate here.
I accept that Miss Bs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Bamboo to lend here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss B. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Bamboo of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Miss Bs loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman