DRN-3430386
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt process a chargeback for him when
he requested it. And it didnt do enough to help him send the information it needed to
process the chargeback.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case  it was my intention to come to a different 
outcome to our investigator. I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to respond with 
anything else they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, it also forms part of this final decision. 
Mr H purchased some items through a social media platform. He says the wrong items
arrived, werent as described and damaged.
Mr H says he attempted to resolve the matter with the retailer but was unable to, and so he
contacted Nationwide to arrange a chargeback.
Mr H provided Nationwide with some information about what had happened. But Nationwide
needed more evidence from Mr H before it was able to process the chargeback.
Mr H spoke to Nationwide on the phone a number of times. He says he finds it difficult to use
emails and so it was challenging for him to forward the information Nationwide were
requesting by email. He also says that at the time, due to the pandemic, libraries werent
open and so he didnt have access to a printer for him to be able to print and post the
information to Nationwide.
Mr H says he also went into branch for help on two occasions, but it wasnt able to help him.
Nationwide responded to Mr Hs complaint. It explained a bit about how a chargeback works,
and that it sometimes needs more information before it is able to process this. It said it would
ask for this information in a text message or an email. It also explained to Mr H that it
needed to gather as much information about what had happened as it needed to build as
strong a case as possible to send to the card scheme  as theyre ultimately the organisation
who makes the decision as to whether the claim is accepted or rejected. Nationwide
explained that its decision not to process the chargeback was a fair one because it didnt get
the information it requested from Mr H. Although it thought it should have called Mr H to let
him know the importance of the information it was requesting  and so it paid Mr H £40 to
say sorry for this.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr H, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They
thought that Nationwide had done enough to help Mr H in providing the information it
needed, and they thought that it was fair and reasonable of Nationwide to request the
information it had done. The investigator also thought that £40 was enough to compensate
Mr H for not informing him of the importance of the information.
Mr H didnt agree with our Investigators opinion. He said he accepted Nationwide had a
process that it needed to follow, but in summary, Mr H says that Nationwide are obliged to
ensure that he has the skills to complete the task it asked him to do  he says that he cant
use email and so it was difficult for him to send the information. Hes also explained that he
would need help printing off a hardcopy of the information and he didnt have the equipment
to be able to do this. Mr H says he believes Nationwide has breached its obligations under
disability related legislation.
In addition, Mr H says he went into branch twice to ask for help, but on both occasions the
branch couldnt help him.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my intention to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
The Investigator who initially investigated this case has already explained what a
chargeback is and how it works, so I dont intend to go into much detail about this here.
It appears Mr H accepts that Nationwide needed to follow its process in relation to gathering
information for the chargeback, but his complaint is about the fact that he was unable to
send the information Nationwide asked, because he struggles to use email and didnt have
the ability to send hardcopies of the information to Nationwide.
I can see that Mr H has stated that Nationwide hasnt complied with the law on disability
matters. I cant make a finding in this decision as to whether or not Nationwide has acted
unlawfully in relation to this legislation  this would be a matter for a court. But I can look to
see if Nationwide has treated Mr H fairly in the circumstances.
I can see Mr H had a conversation with Nationwide on the phone about the difficulties he
was having in providing the information. And the representative attempted to help Mr H
navigate how to forward an email with the information in it. But Nationwides attempts to help
Mr H here were unsuccessful.
I do empathise with the difficulties Mr H had in sending information to Nationwide. And this
has clearly been made more difficult as a result of the pandemic and Mr H not having the
option of using facilities at the local library. But I dont think I can agree with Mr H that it is
Nationwides responsibility to ensure he has the skills or equipment to be able to send it
information  this, in my opinion, isnt reasonable.
Nationwide have said that if a customer couldnt use email or send a letter then it would
suggest a customer could go to one of its branches so they could help. Mr H has been
consistent in his testimony that he did go to branch on two occasions, but they couldnt help
him. Nationwide says it doesnt have any evidence of Mr Hs visits to branch, but I dont think
that this necessarily means it didnt happen. Although, it does mean that Nationwide doesnt
have any notes to show what happened in branch, or what was said to Mr H about sending
the evidence. Mr H hasnt said much about this either  other than he didnt get the help he
needed.
Given Mr Hs consistent testimony on this point, Im minded accepting that he went tobranch, and that he didnt get help. I say this too because Mr H also mentions his branch
visit in a phone call to Nationwide, and had he got the help he needed, then there wouldnt
have been any reason for him to call again. Given the difficulties Mr H was clearly
experiencing in sending Nationwide information, I would have expected it to have done more
to help Mr H in branch.
For this reason, I currently think Nationwide should pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for
the inconvenience of going to branch twice for help, and ultimately not getting this. This is in
addition to the £40 it has already agreed to pay him for not making it clear the importance of
sending the information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Neither party have 
responded, so Ive assumed they have nothing further to add  or anything else they want 
me to consider. 
Because of this, I see no reason to change the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Hs complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Nationwide needs to pay Mr H £150 to reflect the inconvenience its 
actions caused him. For clarity, this payment is in addition to the £40 it has already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Nationwide Building Society must 
put things right for Mr H by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman