DRN-1246783
 
The complaint
Mr A says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account.
What happened
Mr A took out a packaged bank account with NatWest in February 2019 during a discussion 
in a branch. The packaged bank account included travel insurance. Shortly after the sale he 
booked a holiday, which he then had to cancel due to ill health. He tried to claim on the 
insurance and was declined because of his age.
Mr A says NatWest failed to tell him of the age requirements of the policy. NatWest says it 
provided him with the relevant information.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint, but NatWest disagrees, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
NatWest was required to provide Mr A with enough information to make an informed 
decision about the packaged bank account.
NatWest says that Mr A signed an application form to say hed received a summary of the 
terms and conditions of the packaged bank account including the travel insurance. But Mr A 
says the application form makes no mention of an age limit and he didnt receive and has 
never seen the summary. 
Ive looked at the documents and I agree that the application form while referring to terms 
and conditions doesnt mention the age limit. And I find it credible that Mr A didnt receive the 
summary of the terms and conditions or didnt have them drawn to his attention.
I say this because both sides agree that there was a discussion about the sale of the 
packaged bank account in Mr As branch. NatWests records show that this included 
discussing the travel insurance including whether Mr A had pre-existing medical conditions 
and the mobile phone insurance and acknowledges that he has a phone. 
So, I think Mr A was trying to ensure that the policy he was buying would cover him and had 
he known he was outside the age parameter for cover I think he wouldve paid the small 
extra premium to extend the age limit to cover himself.
So, I dont think that whatever NatWest did drew his attention adequately to the age limit.
In my view for the reasons above, this was a mis-sale and Mr A lost out because he couldnt 
claim on his travel insurance when he needed to, so I uphold his complaint.
Putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to  pay compensation equivalent to the amount of 
Mr As travel insurance claim plus interest at 8% per year simple from the date of loss to the 
date of payment. 
A deduction may be made for the £75.00 he wouldve had to pay to be covered under the
insurance.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
put things right as shown in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman