DRN-2522986
The complaint
Mr L says Age Partnership Limited advised him to purchase a level annuity, the real value of 
which eroded over time due to inflation. He says he wasnt properly informed about his 
options. And consequently, hes suffered financial detriment.
Mr L is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr L was in contact with Age Partnership between January and March 2012 to explore 
taking an income from his pension plans. At the time he was 63 and appears to have had 
two policies, one with Sunlife and one with Aviva.
After several interactions and the provision of different quotes from different providers, Mr L 
decided to take tax free cash from his funds and to establish a monthly annuity with the 
residual amount. He completed the forms in March 2012 and the arrangements were in 
place by May 2012.
FR have raised several concerns on behalf of Mr L about what happened. It said:
Our client was 63 years of age and had little experience or knowledge of pensions or 
investments. His objective was to receive advice on the different retirement income options 
available to him. He accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
The total purchase price of the two annuities was £81,429.72. Our client now receives total 
income of £405.33 per month gross from his Just annuities. This income does not increase; 
therefore, its purchasing power is reduced each year by inflation.
FR said the impact of inflation on Mr Ls annuity hadnt been explained to him. And it says 
theres no evidence to show he was made aware of the different options available to him for 
taking a retirement income. FR thought that if he had been it wouldve been clear the most 
favourable option for him wouldve been an income drawdown plan containing a low-risk, 
diversified portfolio of low-cost index funds. It says Mr L would now be far better off had he 
taken such an approach with his funds.
FR says Age Partnership was in breach of the regulators rules in force at the time of the 
advice; the common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care; and the requirement for 
disclosure of material information regarding risks, costs and available alternatives, in order to 
allow informed consent.
Age Partnership says that it didnt provide Mr L with any advice. It says he approached it for 
information, and it explained clearly the limits of its service. Age Partnership says that it met 
regulatory requirements placed on it at the time.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L disagreed and FR said that Age 
Partnership had a duty to make him aware of any material information that was important to 
his decision  and it had failed because it hadnt explained his annuity wouldnt increase 
over time.
So, Mr Ls case has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing that Age Partnership hasnt been able to provide the call recordings from 
its interactions with Mr L. Nor has it provided the fact-find or other notes. It has provided its 
account of events and some documents, such as the annuity agreement which set out 
details of the service it provided and a summary of the choices it said Mr L made.
FR has relayed the complaint Mr L was making, but it hasnt provided much detail about the 
events in 2012.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Some firms offer annuity broking services, which dont involve giving advice. Instead, these 
businesses give customers a list of annuity quotes based on the information they provide 
about their circumstances. Sometimes people may choose to use these services as an 
alternative to paying a financial adviser for a suitable annuity recommendation.
I think this is the service Age Partnership provided Mr L. I say this because on page 1 of the 
agreement it says (bolding is my emphasis):
Whose products do we offer? - We offer products from the whole market.
Which service will we provide you with? - You will not receive advice or a 
recommendation from us. We may ask some questions to narrow down the selection of 
products that we will provide details on. You will then need to make your own choice about 
how to proceed.
Even though Age Partnership wasnt providing advice, it still needed to provide Mr L with 
enough information to enable him to make an informed choice. For example, it had to 
explain that health and/or lifestyle conditions might result in a higher annuity rate (and 
therefore more income in retirement). If it did, we would expect it to have asked him clear 
questions so it could capture the relevant information that might affect an annuity rate.
I can see on page 5 of the annuity agreement that Age Partnership has recorded responses 
for him and his partner, about health conditions they had as well as gathering information 
about their lifestyle, which couldve had an impact on their lifespan. The responses indicate a 
comprehensive discussion took place. And I think its more likely than not this information 
was used when Age Partnership tested the market for Mr Ls annuity options.FR has focussed much of the case against Age Partnership on the fact that Mr L bought a 
level annuity  thats to say his benefits wouldnt be increased over time to account for 
inflation. This can have a significant impact over someones lifetime, with purchasing power 
being eroded.
While I wouldve liked to have been able to listen to the sales conversation between Age 
Partnership and Mr L, I only have limited documentation to review. Mr Ls position is that he 
wasnt made aware of other options available for taking an income. Age Partnership says it 
followed proper procedures and this included making him aware he did have other options. 
I can see that under section 4 of his annuity agreement which set out things he needed to 
consider, he was informed (bolding is my emphasis):
You have approached Age Partnership to assist you in optimising your retirement income. 
In doing so, you should understand that we have provided you with information surrounding 
conventional annuities; however, we have not provided you with investment advice. You 
should be aware that there are other methods of obtaining and income and, in 
proceeding with this annuity purchase, you confirm that you do not wish to take advice on 
this matter.
This adds a little weight to Age Partnerships account. But Im mindful its a small extract 
from a ten-page document. 
However, I think its of note the process between Age Partnership and Mr L unfolded over a 
period of months and a significant amount of information was gathered from him about his 
circumstances and preferences and this was recorded in the annuity agreement.
I note for example, on page 7 of the agreement there was detailed information about what 
sort of annuity Mr L required. This included that he wanted:
- A joint-life annuity, providing 50% of the benefit for his spouse in the event of his 
passing. As well as a guarantee of full payment for 5 years in such an event.
- To receive his annuity income monthly and in arrears. 
-An annuity that wouldnt escalate over time.
I dont know why Mr L decided to take a level annuity. An escalating annuity wouldve been 
more expensive or wouldve started from a lower base. Perhaps he was mindful hed be able 
to supplement his income with any state pension entitlement. 
Whatever the case, I think the record of events makes clear Mr L was engaged in making 
decisions about how his annuity would work. And I think this extended to making a decision 
to buy a level annuity.
FR said had Mr L been better informed of his options it wouldve been clear the most 
favourable route for him wouldve been an income drawdown plan containing a low-risk, 
diversified portfolio of low-cost index funds. Its done little to substantiate this assertion.
Income drawdown is, or has also been, known as Pension Fund Withdrawal (PFW), 
unsecured pension, capped pension and flexi-access drawdown. Consumers can usually 
take up to 25% of the pension pot as a tax-free lump sum. The remainder of the pot, which is 
used to provide an income, continues to be invested  and can go down as well as up in 
value. The pot will be eroded if the income drawn and charges exceed the growth achieved.FR noted Mr L had little knowledge or experience of pensions or investments - arguably then 
a drawdown arrangement wouldve been unsuitable for him.
On balance, I think theres enough evidence to show Age Partnership didnt provide advice 
to Mr L. Its clear he was engaged in the process of making decisions about the design of his 
annuity. And I think its more likely than not Age Partnership provided him with the 
information he needed to make informed decisions.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman