DRN-3578997
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by approving an 
overdraft that was unaffordable and continuing to apply charges to her account when she 
was in financial difficulty 
What happened
Miss R complained to Lloyds that the fees it applied to her account caused her financial 
difficulty. Lloyds says the charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account and didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss R was dis-satisfied she referred 
the complaint to our service.
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Miss R was experiencing financial difficulty by March 2016 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
As Lloyds hasnt responded Miss Rs complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Rs 
overdraft from March 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss R was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
It was clear that Miss R was having difficulty managing her money. Miss R hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloyds own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
Miss Rs statements show that even after her salary was paid in if it was enough to bring her 
account into credit it was only for a very short period of time before she was back in 
overdraft. Sometimes she made internal transfers in and out of another account in order to 
manage this  but there werent enough funds in the other account to keep her out of her 
overdraft for long or to pay it off. 
I accept there was the odd month when Miss R was able to maintain a credit balance but this 
was mainly due to the receipt of funds from loans and Miss Rs statements show that after 
paying off credit cards and making loan payments that she would again find herself 
overdrawn.  
So I think that Miss Rs overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that 
Miss R wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Miss R was at a 
significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with 
forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to her 
overdraft. As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Rs overdraft usage and instead continued charging 
in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss R fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from March 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss R is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Lloyds to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Rs credit file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from March 2016. 
Lloyds can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Miss R over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman