DRN-1121462
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lowell Financial Ltd sent letters to an address where he was 
recovering, and he didnt provide it with the address or give it permission contact him at that 
residence. 
Miss L is Mr Ls representative in this complaint. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr L had two accounts with Lowell. In October 2016 he wrote to Lowell and 
explained his financial position. Lowell agreed to a repayment to help Mr L reduce the 
outstanding balance on the accounts. But in 2018, Lowell purchased two further accounts 
with outstanding balances. 
In October 2018 Mr L wrote to Lowell again. In this letter he explained that he was suffering 
with his mental health. He asked that Lowell only corresponded by email, and said that his 
postal address was a care of address whilst he was recovering away. So, Lowell placed all 
four accounts on hold for 90 days.
Mr L has said in May 2019 he began to receive letters at his safe place. Despite him asking 
Lowell to communicate by email. Mr L never provided Lowell with the address of the safe 
place. But he had updated his bank account with this address as he needed proof of address 
to register at a local doctors. So, he said, Lowell must have completed a soft search to 
locate this address.
The residence which Mr L calls his safe place was actually his friends residence. When he 
received the letters from Lowell, he says she asked him to leave as she didnt want to be 
associated with the outstanding debt or the pursuance of it. This resulted in Mr L having to 
re-locate. But due to his financial circumstances he didnt have the funds to do so. So, his 
friend who he was staying with, lent him £5,000 for relocation costs, deposit and rent. As a 
result of this, it left Mr Ls friend in mortgage arrears. 
Mr L has said the constant letters has severely impacted his mental health, blood pressure 
and he has made several attempts on his life. He has also had to stop working, so he isnt in 
a position to repay the £5,000 he borrowed from his friend. Because of this Mr L raised the 
complaint with Lowell. 
Lowell investigated Mr Ls complaint. It said that after it had placed Mr Ls accounts on hold, 
two of the accounts became unlinked from the main account in error. This meant that they 
were no longer being dealt with by its specialist team. As a result, an automated trace 
procedure was carried out, and Mr Ls safe space address was found. 
Lowell has said, once it was made aware of the error it immediately placed a hold mark on 
the accounts associated with the safe space address to stop any further correspondence 
going to that address. After investigating the complaint, and carefully considering Mr Ls 
circumstances it decided to close all four of Mr Ls account. This was to stop any further 
distress being caused to Mr L. As a result of this Lowell cleared the remaining outstanding balance on Mr Ls account which totalled £11,000. However, it did explain that Mr L's 
associated defaults would remain on his credit file for a period of six years, but they had 
been marked as partially satisfied.
Mr L remained unhappy and his representative raised a further complaint with Lowell. She 
felt further compensation was owed, due to the fact that Lowells actions led to Mr L having 
to borrow £5,000 from his friend to re-locate. This in turn left his friend in mortgage arrears, 
and Mr L was not in a position to repay the debt. But Lowell felt the offer it had already made 
was fair. So, Miss L brought Mr Ls complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, but he thought that Lowell had done enough to 
put things right. He said, he agreed Lowell shouldnt have sent Mr L letters to his safe space, 
but he accepts this was done in error. But he went on to say that if Lowell hadnt made the 
offer it had, our service would have considered the trouble and upset that it had caused and 
decided if it was foreseeable. Our investigator explained that our compensation levels that 
our service awards are modest. So, while he accepted that the error made by Lowell had a 
big impact on Mr L, he felt the overall offer exceeded what we would have recommended if 
an offer hadnt been made. 
Mr L didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will explain why. But firstly, I would like 
to say that I am truly sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Mr L finds himself in. I 
appreciate this couldnt have been easy for him, and I have taken this into consideration. 
Pursuance of debt
It is not in dispute that Lowell made an error, and all parties agree that the letters should not 
have been sent to Mr Ls safe space. I have seen evidence provided by Lowell that Mr Ls 
accounts had all been linked under the same account and were being managed by the 
specialist account team. I appreciate that an error occurred with Lowells system which 
triggered two of Mr Ls account to become unlinked from his profile. And because of this, 
two of his accounts were no longer being dealt with under the specialist account team, 
hence why a soft search was completed, and the safe space address found.
However, Mr L had acted reasonably and responsibly by notifying Lowell of his 
circumstances. He had outlined he would like to be contacted by email, and advised he 
wasnt currently staying at the address Lowell held on file. He never provided Lowell with his 
safe place address and didnt give it permission for it to be used. I think it is fair to say that 
Lowell were aware of the challenges Mr L was facing, and that is why his accounts were 
being managed by the specialist team. 
So, taking that into account, I think it is reasonable to suggest that it was foreseeable that a 
level of distress would have been caused to Mr L if he was to be contacted at his safe place. 
Especially, as Lowell were aware of his circumstances. So, I appreciate that an error  
caused two of Mr Ls accounts to become unlinked. But I think more care should have been 
taken to ensure Mr Ls requests had been adhered to, and his accounts continued to be dealt with by the specialist account team. I accept that Mr L receiving these letters while he 
was trying to recover (and had acted responsibly in notifying Lowells of his circumstances) 
would have been distressing and caused a level of upset which Mr L should be 
compensated for.
Third party debt
So, I have gone on to consider the events which then followed, after the letters were issued 
to Mr Ls safe space.
Mr L has said, as a result of receiving letters from Lowell at his safe space, his friend, who 
resides at the safe space, asked him to leave, as she didnt want to be associated with the 
debt or pursuance of the debt. Mr L has provided evidence from the third party to confirm 
this was the position, and I can appreciate the third partys concerns in relation to this. 
However, at that point Mr L then borrowed £5,000 from the third party to assist with re-
location costs. And he is not in a position to repay this debt. So, he feels that Lowell should 
compensate him for this.
But I dont think it was foreseeable that Lowells error, would result in a third-party lending  
Mr L £5,000. And as a result of the third partys generosity, it left them in mortgage arrears. I 
say this because, Lowell were unaware this was a third partys residence. The letters were 
addressed to Mr L and at the time of borrowing the £5,000, Mr L would have been aware he 
was not in a position to repay the debt. So, I dont think Lowell should be held responsible for 
the outstanding amount Mr L owes the third party.
So with that in mind, I think its reasonable to suggest that Lowells failure to ensure Mr Ls 
accounts were being managed by the specialist account team, and to adhere to his requests 
to be contacted by email would have caused Mr L a great deal of trouble and upset. And this 
would have made his already challenging circumstances even harder. And so, I would have 
considered an award to compensate Mr L for the trouble and upset Lowell had caused in 
relation to this. But Lowell has already agreed to close Mr Ls accounts and clear an 
outstanding debt of £11,000. I feel this is more than reasonable, and more than I would have 
awarded if it hadnt already made that offer. So, I wont be asking Lowell to do anything 
further. 
Mr L is aware that the defaults associated with the accounts will remain on his credit file for 
six years and the debts will show as partially settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lowell Financial Ltd  has already made an offer to write off Mr Ls 
outstanding debt of £11,000 in order to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman