DRN-4133330
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against her at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In autumn 2022, over the course of about a day, Miss D received a series of payments and 
passed them on to cryptocurrency accounts. It turned out that these were fraudulent funds, 
taken from victims of crime.
Starling queried things with Miss D. She initially said the money was from friends who had 
borrowed from her, then claimed none of the activity was her and she was hacked. But 
Starling noted that the onward payments had been made from Miss Ds registered device, 
the only registered device on the account, which had been verified by a video of her, which 
was the same device she was contacting them on, and which was secured by a passcode 
and password. Starling closed Miss Ds account and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Miss D came to our service. She explained that her previous testimony was not true, and 
shed said it because she was scared. Shed been introduced to some men at university who 
said she could make money if she let them transfer funds through her account into crypto. 
They assured her it was legitimate and they were doing it this way for tax breaks. She 
started to get suspicious when getting so many credits from people she didnt know, but they 
said it was all legal. The men became aggressive and pressured her into forwarding the 
money on quickly. She was frightened as they knew where she lived. They demanded the 
login details for her crypto accounts and all the funds were forwarded on to the mens own 
crypto wallets. She did not receive any cut or reward, and by the end shed realised it was 
dodgy and was scared of the men so she didnt ask for one. She now wishes shed told 
Starling the truth from the start, but she was worried that the men would work out shed told 
the bank what happened and come for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, since Miss Ds testimony had been so 
inconsistent and she hadnt yet provided evidence to support it. And without statements, they 
couldnt be sure whether she really benefitted from the fraud or not. They explained that the 
outcome could change if Miss D provided statements and message logs.
Miss D appealed, and sent in statements from her crypto accounts and other bank account, 
along with the message logs between her and the fraudsters. The complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
I sent Miss D and Starling a provisional decision on 25 April 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show they 
had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been knowingly 
committed or attempted by Miss D, backed up by evidence so rigorous that it would support 
this being reported to the authorities.
This case is finely balanced. I find that Starling did have appropriate grounds to register the 
marker, and there are reasonable arguments for keeping it registered against Miss D. For 
example, as our adjudicator noted, her testimony has changed a lot and she should have 
been more suspicious of what was going on. But based on all the evidence Ive got, notably 
including the evidence Miss D has now sent, I currently think that the marker should now be 
removed. Ill explain why. 
The message logs Miss D provided match up with what she told our service. I can see that 
she was in contact with the fraudsters, who sent her strict commands. She made payments 
by the methods and in the order that they told her to  Miss D was not directing things 
herself. The fraudsters frequently rang her, keeping what they wrote down minimalistic. And 
they pressured her to be quick, explaining that otherwise their verification codes would 
quickly expire.
Importantly, I can see that all the money ultimately ended up going to the crypto wallets of 
the fraudsters. As far as I can see, Miss D did not benefit from this herself at all.
Miss Ds account had been open for some time before this incident, and otherwise seems to 
have been used for broadly normal spending. As far as I can see, it was a genuine account, 
as opposed to one which had been opened for the purpose of committing fraud. 
Looking at the fraud reports, I note that Miss Ds account was not the only one the fraudsters 
were telling victims to pay. The fraud was initiated from social media accounts which do not 
appear to be linked to Miss D. And according to one victim, they were given Miss Ds bank 
details to send money to but didnt know who she was. This all seems to suggest that Miss D 
was not directly involved in the fraud itself  it looks more like she was just a cog in the 
wheel, who the fraudsters were using to pass funds on.
It is not uncommon for young people to be targeted for use as unwitting money mules, and 
the investment scheme story that Miss D says she was told sounds quite typical for this sort 
of situation. I can understand why someone young and unfamiliar with the financial world 
might believe that its legitimate to move money in this way for cryptocurrency investments or 
tax reasons. I can see that the fraudsters were quite aggressively commanding and put on 
pressure in their messages, and I can understand why Miss D may have been scared to tell 
the bank about them if they knew where she lived. And I appreciate that people often dont 
act logically when under pressure.
Of course, at best Miss D certainly was highly negligent here. She should have questioned 
what was going on. And I accept that I cannot categorically rule out the possibility that 
Miss D was a willing participant in the fraud. But in light of the new evidence shes provided, 
I also cannot rule out that she was simply taken advantage of. So I find that Starling no 
longer have the balance of evidence needed to quite meet the bar of keeping this CIFAS 
marker in place. And so while I am fully conscious of the risk that Miss D knowingly and 
willingly aided in crime, I think the risk of Miss D being an unwitting party is too great to 
justify this CIFAS marker remaining.In summary, given Miss Ds plausible new testimony, the comprehensive evidence shes 
now provided that fits with it, the previous genuine use of her account, the evidence 
indicating she wasnt directly involved in defrauding the victims, and the fact that she does 
not appear to have benefitted, I am currently minded to tell Starling to remove the marker.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Starling should pay Miss D any compensation for 
registering this marker. But Id only award compensation if I thought Starling had done 
something wrong. Here, Starling very much had sufficient grounds to close Miss Ds account 
and register a CIFAS marker based on what they knew at the time. Theyd received many 
official fraud reports, they could see Miss D had been using the account herself, Miss D had 
not yet provided any evidence to substantiate what shed said, and shed told Starling two 
clearly fictitious stories. So it seems reasonable that Starling put the marker in place.
So Im suggesting that Starling just remove the marker now. With that said, I hope Miss D is 
aware of just how close she came to facing severe repercussions, such as having the 
marker remain for the full period and being reported to the authorities. Now that she is 
definitely aware of the criminal nature of what she was involved in, she should not expect to 
be given such benefit of the doubt if something similar happens again. I trust that she will 
keep this firmly in mind and will avoid any similar situations in future. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 May 2023. Starling accepted the provisional decision and agreed to remove the marker. 
Miss D didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
I am grateful to Starling for agreeing to remove the marker, and will note again that they 
were not wrong to initially register it based on what they knew at the time.
Putting things right
I direct Starling Bank Limited to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute, and any related fraud 
marker they placed in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold Miss Ds complaint, and direct Starling Bank Limited to 
remove the fraud loading.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman