DRN-4266351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough 
to prevent them losing money to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In November 2016 Mr T attended a branch 
and instructed an international payment of just under £100,000 from the Clydesdale joint 
account that he held with Mrs T to fund an investment with a firm Ill refer to as S. The 
payment was sent to an account held internationally to fund an investment with a firm Ill 
refer to as S. Mr and Mrs T have provided evidence of a loan agreement theyd entered into 
with S which set out the returns they could expect. I understand theyd been introduced to 
the investment by a former colleague of Mr Ts. 
In 2022 Mr and Mrs T complained to Clydesdale. Their letter of complaint included that:
Following their investment theyd received monthly payments for 9 months.
In September 2017 they were told that S had banking issues. 
The Swiss Regulatory Body (FINMA) launched an investigation into S and froze their 
accounts. 
In March 2019 they were told that FINMA had initiated bankruptcy proceedings 
against S. The FINMA appointed liquidator expressed the view that S was likely a 
ponzi scheme. 
Throughout 2020 S representatives made promises to repay but nothing was 
forthcoming. 
Mr and Mrs T believe Clydesdale failed in their duty of care with regards to the 
payment and would like to be reimbursed. 
Clydesdale didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong and the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should 
be upheld. She said she didnt think Clydesdale reasonably could have said or done 
anything at the time that would have resulted in the discovery of the scam.
Mr and Mrs T dont agree and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T, so Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs T accept that they instructed the payment in dispute that went to S. And there is 
no obligation for Clydesdale to intervene in authorised payments unless there is a fraud or 
scam to protect against. Its not entirely clear whether S were operating a scam at the time of 
the payment in question, particularly as Mr and Mrs Ts initial submissions say that S were 
regulated by FINMA at the time, and they went on to receive payments for a number of 
months. 
But I dont think I need to make a finding as to whether S were operating a scam to decide 
this complaint. Because even if they were, I agree with our Investigator that I dont think any 
intervention that could reasonably have been expected at the time would have made a 
difference. I appreciate Mr and Mrs T feel this outcome is based on assumptions. But 
inevitably, to reach a conclusion, a judgement has to be made as to what I think would most 
likely have happened, given all the available evidence and arguments. 
Both parties agree that the payment was instructed in branch. Mrs T says that she wasnt 
asked any questions beyond filling in the purpose of payment on the International Payment 
Form  the form itself is signed by Mr T. Clydesdale say that due to the passage of time they 
havent been able to provide further evidence of any interaction in the branch. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts position is that they werent asked questions, and they should 
have been. But its important to note that whilst the obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
are longstanding, it wouldnt be fair for me to apply todays standards and expectations to a 
payment made in 2016. So even if I were to accept that there was a failure by Clydesdale in 
not asking questions, that wouldnt alone be enough for me to uphold this complaint. Id still 
need to be persuaded that the error in question had caused the loss. And I agree with our 
Investigator that even if Clydesdale had probed, asked questions, and provided a warning 
about the potential for a scam, I dont think this would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs 
T instructing the payment. 
Its clear from the timeline above that the alleged impropriety from S took years to come to 
light. Ive searched and havent been able to find any warnings from around the time of the 
payment that might have indicated there was a potential problem with S. So even if 
Clydesdale had provided detailed warnings, and this had prompted Mr and Mrs T to do 
further research, I dont think there was anything they would have found which would have 
deterred them from making the payment. Particularly as this investment opportunity came 
about through someone they had an existing personal connection with. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts points that the payment was going to a different country to 
where S were based. But it isnt unusual for a firm to have accounts in numerous territories. 
And I dont agree this is something that would have made a material difference at the time. 
The funds clearly credited the intended account as the initial returns at least were paid. 
Mr and Mrs T have also highlighted that a previous payment theyd made (a few weeks 
earlier) and also intended for S, had been returned. They think this should have put 
Clydesdale on notice of a potential problem. The evidence Ive seen from Clydesdale shows 
that the payment was returned because there was no account. I dont agree that anything 
Clydesdale were told in relation to that payment, means anything they might have done in 
relation to the second payment would have made a difference. I dont think anything they 
received in relation to the returned payment was suspicious or indicative of a potential scam. 
Mrs T says that she was vulnerable at the time due to her personal circumstances. Im sorry 
to hear of Mrs Ts difficult situation at the time. But the evidence suggests that either Mr T 
alone or both Mr and Mrs T together instructed the payment. And Ive not seen anything 
which makes me think Clydesdale did anything wrong based on Mrs Ts vulnerability at the 
time. For completeness, given what is now known about the bankruptcy proceedings against S, I 
dont think there was anything Clydesdale did or didnt do which impacted whether a 
successful recovery could have been made once the matter was reported to them.  
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs T have lost so much money. But as there isnt sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that this is something Clydesdale are responsible for, there isnt a 
reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman