DRN-4101620
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money she 
lost to a scam.
Mrs Y has used a representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
just refer to Mrs Y herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only share a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 Mrs Y was sadly the victim of a scam. 
She sent two online payments from her Halifax account to what turned out to be a scam. The 
payments were £500 on 10 September 2018 and £2,950 the following day. 
At the time she believed this was a deposit and the balance of an invoice to purchase a car 
that shed found online. She believed she was dealing with a legitimate company and that 
the car was to be delivered. Shortly after the payments, Mrs Y realised this might have been 
a scam and she reported this to Halifax. Halifax investigated and ultimately said they 
wouldnt provide a refund and hadnt been able to recover any money from the recipient 
bank. 
In 2022, with the help of the representative, Mrs Y complained to Halifax. And when Halifax 
maintained their position, the complaint was referred to our service. One of our Investigators 
didnt recommend that it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think Halifax ought to have 
done more at the time of the payments or that theyd failed to do all they should to attempt 
recovery. Mrs Y disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there isnt a great deal I can add to what our Investigator has already 
explained. 
Halifaxs first obligation is to follow the payment instructions Mrs Y provides. And there is a 
balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments that present an increased 
risk and allowing customers free access to their own funds. In this case, I dont think that 
threshold was breached where Halifax should have done more. The second payment was 
for more than Mrs Y typically sent month on month. But it isnt unusual for customers to 
make larger payments from time to time for one off costs or purchases. 
Overall, I dont consider the two payments Mrs Y made towards the scam (either individually 
or collectively) to be so unusual or suspicious that I think its reasonable to expect Halifax to 
have done more before following the instructions Mrs Y provided at the time. So, I dont think 
the loss was preventable in that way. 
Im also satisfied that Halifax acted appropriately and promptly upon receipt of the 
notification of fraud from Mrs Y. Its unfortunate this didnt result in a recovery from the 
recipient bank. Sadly, its a feature of these scams that funds are typically moved on almost 
instantly from such accounts to frustrate attempts at recovery. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs Y was the victim of a scam and that she lost a significant sum. But as I 
dont think there were any failures by Halifax which caused or contributed to the loss, or 
hindered its recovery, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can require them to do 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman