DRN-3551324
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about QIC Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim she made 
under her home and buildings insurance policy for storm damage to a greenhouse. 
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to her insurer, QIC following a storm. She said it had caused damage to 
a wooden and glass greenhouse which had collapsed. 
Mrs M removed the remaining parts of the greenhouse for safety as more storms were 
imminent and she had animals nearby which she wanted to keep safe. Before doing so, she 
took photos as advised by QIC to support her claim. 
QIC declined Mrs Ms claim based on the photos she provided as it said the wood supporting 
the frame of the greenhouse showed signs of rot. So QIC said it excluded cover for damage 
caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear. 
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator recommended the complaint 
should be upheld. He didnt think QIC could fairly say it had properly investigated the claim 
as it didnt send a surveyor to inspect the damage in person. He couldnt; see it was clear 
from the photos that the cause of damage was due to rotting wood. He found that Mrs M had 
expected a surveyor to attend in around ten days and had kept the wood for inspection. 
QIC didnt agree. It referred to one particular photo of the greenhouse. It said this showed a 
large piece of wood that was darker than the rest as it was rotten. So it wants an 
ombudsman to decide.
Mrs M accepted the Investigators view. Shes provided a copy of online reviews about QIC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For an insurer to decline a claim, it needs to show that it properly applied any exclusion. 
Like most insurance policies, QICs policy provides cover in the event of sudden one off 
insured perils such as storm, flood or fire. It doesnt provide cover for damage caused by 
gradual means. Sometimes an insured event will highlight an existing issue rather than be 
the main cause of the damage. 
As the Investigator explained, we ask three questions when considering storm damage 
complaints. I can see QIC followed our approach. The questions are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
All parties agree there was a storm  so the answer to the first question is yes. I think the 
damage is consistent with what a storm might cause. 
Mrs M provided several photos of the damaged greenhouse to QIC. I can understand her 
reasons for dismantling the greenhouse straight away for safety. But I understand she kept 
the parts of the greenhouse as she believed QIC was arranging for a surveyor to attend and 
inspect the damage. I think Mrs M acted reasonably and did all she could to assist with the 
claim. 
QIC decided that the photos were sufficient to reach a decision. So Mrs M disposed of the 
damaged greenhouse. 
Ive looked at the photo QIC has referred us to in response to the Investigators findings. I 
dont think its clear that this evidences the cause of damage was due to the condition of the 
greenhouse and that the structural integrity of the greenhouse was compromised as a result 
of rotten wood. I think its difficult to tell from the image that QICs decision was reasonable. 
So I think QIC should have appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage before reaching its 
decision to decline the claim.
I am therefore upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I think QIC hasnt shown it properly investigated 
the claim before reaching its decision. And so I dont think it has shown its decision was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Limited to deal with 
Mrs Ms claim for storm damage under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman