DRN-2780863
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc no longer allows him to access his savings account 
with a debit card.
What happened
In September 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr H to tell him they were changing the way their 
customers could access their savings accounts. The letter confirmed Mr H wouldnt be able 
to use the debit card to access his savings from 16 November and provided several 
alternative ways he could access his account. HSBC sent a reminder letter to Mr H two 
weeks before the debit card was cancelled.
On 17 November, Mr H used the debit card in a local cashpoint and the card was retained.
Mr H complained to HSBC on the telephone that he no longer had access to his funds, and 
that without the debit card facility hed have to travel 10 miles to his local branch to withdraw 
funds. HSBC didnt uphold his complaint and explained that Mr H could use telephone 
banking to arrange for funds to be transferred from his savings account to his current 
account. He could then use his current account debit card to withdraw the funds from his 
local cashpoint. 
HSBC wrote to Mr H after the telephone call and provided him the contact details for our 
service. As Mr H wasnt happy with the response from HSBC he brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for Mr H and thought HSBC hadnt 
treated him unfairly because they had given notice of the change to the account and had 
provided him with several alternative ways of accessing his funds.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He said hed have to travel to get access to his 
money and changing the credits being paid into his savings account to his current account 
would cause him upset and trouble. Mr H asked that an ombudsman decides his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons our investigator 
gave I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. Ill now explain why.
For some time, Mr H has accessed his savings account using a debit card HSBC provided 
and hes been quite happy using his current account for direct debits. Mr Hs pension is paid 
into his savings account. However, several years ago HSBC stopped providing debit cards 
on new savings accounts. They allowed Mr H and other existing savings account customers 
to continue using the debit cards they held. In 2020, after reviewing the remaining accounts 
being operated this way, HSBC gave notice to Mr H that the savings account he had with 
them would no longer have a debit card.
I cant tell HSBC how they should operate their accounts, but I can consider whether theyve 
treated Mr H fairly when they changed how the account could be used.
The first thing I would expect HSBC to do when changing how an account can be used is for 
them to give Mr H reasonable notice. In this case, I can see HSBC gave Mr H more than 
two-months notice that hed no longer be able to use the debit card on his savings account. I 
consider this is enough time for Mr H to look at other options. When they gave Mr H notice of 
the change, HSBC made it clear this change would affect all existing customers and they 
provided several alternative ways of accessing his savings. HSBC also explained Mr H 
would still have access to a debit card for his current account. Ive seen that HSBC reminded 
Mr H by letter of the changes two-weeks before 16 November. They again provided details 
of alternative ways he could access his funds and provided a telephone number if he 
required further assistance. So, I dont consider HSBC acted unreasonably or treated Mr H 
unfairly here.
I would also expect HSBC to provide Mr H with support in helping him adapt to the changes 
to his savings account. Ive seen that when Mr Hs debit card for his savings account was 
retained at his local cashpoint he called HSBC. They arranged for him to have access to his 
savings account using a voice recognition service so that he could move money from his 
savings account to his current account. And during the same call HSBC supported Mr H to 
process a transfer.
I empathise with Mr H that hes unable to operate his account how he used to, and I 
appreciate the changes will feel uncomfortable as hes not familiar with on-line and 
telephone banking. However, I do consider the alternative options suggested by HSBC were 
reasonable. HSBC did set-up Mr H for voice recognition so he can simply call them and 
make a transfer of funds from his savings to his current account without the need for on-line 
banking or having to travel to complete a transfer in branch. This would enable him to 
access his funds using his current account debit card at the local cashpoint he has been 
using. So, Im satisfied that HSBC supported Mr H when his account changed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman