DRN-2025828
The complaint
Mrs R complains that the claim she made for an escape of water at her property, has been 
unfairly declined by Covea Insurance plc (Covea).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 June 2020 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mrs R insured her property with Covea Insurance plc ("Covea") from 13 October 
2019 against damage caused by various insured risks, including escape of water. 
Prior to that from 13 October 2018 to 12 October 2019 Mrs Rs property was insured 
by Integra Insurance Solutions Limited (Integra), against the same insured risks. 
Both policies were arranged by a broker who I will call S. 
Mrs R lives in a two-story stone house. The first floor of the house is unoccupied, 
other than when Mrs R has an occasional visitor to stay. Mrs R has a balance 
condition which means she doesnt often venture to the first floor of the house, and 
she is physically unable to access the loft, where her water tank is located as access 
is provided by a steep loft ladder.
On 29 October 2019, after having guests to stay, Mrs R went upstairs to the guest 
bathroom to close a window and noticed a couple of small mushrooms starting to 
show in the corner of the wall. She called an emergency plumber to the house, who, 
on inspecting the first floor and loft found that the water tank had a slow leak, coming 
through a very small hole. He estimated the leak had been continuing for a period of 
up to six months. The water had soaked through the bathroom ceiling, and the ceiling 
and walls of an adjacent linen cupboard and ruined all the contents in the cupboard.
Mrs R contacted Covea on 7 November 2019 to make a claim for damage caused by 
the escape of water. Covea sent a surveyor to the property on 12 November 2019, 
who, according to Mrs R, was at the property for less than ten minutes. The surveyor 
took a few photographs and issued a brief report to say that the claim was declined 
because the damage was extensive and pre-dated the policy inception. Covea then 
told Mrs R that she needed to raise a claim with Integra, which she did on 13 
November 2019. 
Integra also declined to consider Mrs Rs claim, on the basis that the leak was 
continuous and ongoing and had been identified after the policy with them had 
lapsed. 
Mrs R brought her complaint about the declined claim to our service in December 
2019. She's also told us that she feels very strongly that she's been put under 
considerable stress by to the dragged-out dispute. Her home has been at a standstill 
of upheaval, and shes been unable to move forward with the required repair and 
decoration. She says this has taken a toll on her as an alone, very elderly, relatively 
new widow in poor health. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint, and her complaint against Integra. 
She issued her view on 4 March 2020 upholding this complaint and said: 
there was no dispute the damage was caused by an escape of water which is 
covered under her policy, so Covea should cover the claim;
Covea had unfairly applied the gradual damage exclusion, because Mrs R wasnt 
aware, and couldnt reasonably have been aware that the damage was occurring;
Covea hadnt provided evidence to support their application of the gradual 
damage exclusion; and
Covea should pay Mrs R £200 for the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused her.
Covea didnt accept our investigators view. It made further submissions about the 
timing of Mrs R's claim and whether she ought to have been aware of the damage 
sooner than she was. It also said that during the 17 days their policy was in force, 
prior to notification of the claim, the damage wouldn't have materially worsened and 
increased the cost of the repair, so it had no liability to address the damage. If the 
damage had materially worsened during their period of cover then it says it would 
have happily contributed towards the extra cost of repair.
As Covea has declined to cover Mrs Rs claim, the matter has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked closely at Coveas handling and decision on Mrs Rs claim to see if it's 
acted in accordance with the terms of her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
Ive set out my findings under the following headings: claim for escape of water; 
contribution towards cost of settling the claim; and compensation for upset and 
inconvenience.
claim for escape of water
Neither Covea, nor Integra have expressly accepted that an insured event has taken 
place. But that's been assumed in correspondence between them and the broker, S. 
However, for the avoidance of doubt, Ive explained below why Im satisfied that an 
insured event has occurred.
Mrs Rs policy covers her for damage caused by an escape of water. Its clear from 
the available evidence, that a slow leak of water from the tank located in the 
loft caused the damage to the first-floor bathroom and adjacent linen cupboard.Although Covea declined the claim on the basis that the damage pre-dated its period 
of cover (which I will address next) Covea has also pointed towards gradual damage 
being excluded by the policy terms. 
I accept that in applying the policy terms and conditions to Mrs Rs claim, Covea 
could technically exclude cover on that basis. However, I also need to consider 
whether the strict application of that exclusion is fair. This service generally takes the 
view it isnt fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage exclusion unless the 
insured was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the issue. So, Ive 
considered Mrs Rs awareness of the damage and the action she took.
Mrs R has told us that she lives in a self-contained unit on the ground floor of her 
house. Since her daughter and granddaughter vacated the first floor (more than a 
year ago) she rarely ventures up to that part of the house, other than when she has 
occasional guests to stay. Mrs R has also told us that because she has a balance 
condition she is physically unable to climb the ladder into the loft. At the time Mrs R 
first noticed evidence of the leak, she had gone up to the first-floor bathroom to close 
a window and noticed some small mushrooms starting to show in the corner of the 
wall. She called out an emergency plumber who went into the loft and found 
evidence of a slow leak that had damaged part of the bathroom and significantly 
damaged the top shelves of an adjacent linen cupboard and ruined all the contents.
Having considered the available evidence Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Mrs 
R to only become aware of the damage, when she went upstairs to close the window. 
As she wasn't living in the first floor and suffered from a medical condition which 
made climbing stairs difficult, I think it reasonable that Mrs R wasn't often in the first 
floor of her house. And given the location of the water tank in the loft, and the slow 
nature of the drip, I think it reasonable that Mrs R only noticed the damage when it 
was made visible by small mushrooms beginning to show. And Im satisfied she 
acted promptly to have the leak investigated and repaired. 
In response to our investigators view, Covea has queried why Mrs R said she used 
the bathroom every day, in response to a question put to her on the initial claim call. 
From reviewing all the available evidence, its clear to me that Mrs R would have 
used her bathroom on the ground floor every day, not the first floor. I think if their call 
handler had taken the time to clarify that comment, the mis-understanding would 
have been resolved then. I dont feel that a passing comment made by Mrs R, which 
stands at odds with the rest of her testimony provides a fair basis to decline her 
claim.
Covea has also said that while it appreciates Mrs R is elderly, the onus would be on 
her to check and maintain all parts of the property. I assume, in making this 
comment, it's referring to General Condition 5 of "How to make a claim" on page 57 
of the policy terms and conditions. It says: You must take care to prevent or reduce 
any loss, destruction, damage or injury and maintain anything covered by this 
insurance. In noticing evidence of the leak and promptly calling the emergency 
plumber to the property, I think Mrs R did take reasonable care to reduce the damage 
to the property. If Covea meant to impose a more rigorous obligation on Mrs R, then 
it ought to have made that clearer in the policy terms and conditions. 
Covea also said that the damage wasn't hidden behind walls or floors and was 
clearly visible. It also said that if Mrs R had gone upstairs to close a window after 
friends had been staying, why didnt they tell her about the damage? However, the 
available evidence indicates that Mrs Rs friends would have needed to climb up the loft ladder into the loft, to notice the leaking water tank, and as the majority of the 
damage occurred near the high shelves of the linen cupboard (which requires a long 
hooked pole to reach the contents) I dont think its reasonable to have expected Mrs 
Rs friends to notice the evidence of the water leak there. 
Lastly, Covea commented that mushrooms don't appear over-night. While I agree 
with that observation, Mrs R was clear, on the initial claim call, and subsequently in 
calls with our investigator, that it was only a few mushrooms, of a small size in the 
corner of the wall that she'd seen. And on the basis that the mushrooms would have 
started very small, I think it reasonable that Mrs R didn't necessarily notice them 
straight away. Unfortunately, Mrs R had her plumber remove the mushrooms 
because the sight of them upset her, so no photos were taken to clarify how big they 
were. And Covea's surveyor also didn't make any enquiries about the mushrooms 
when he visited the property, at a time when the plumber was also there. So, I 
remain of the view, based on the available evidence, and in Mrs R's 
particular circumstances, she couldn't reasonably have been aware of the damage 
sooner than she says she was.
So, Im satisfied that an insured event took place, which was covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. And I don't think it's fair or reasonable for Covea to seek to 
apply the exclusion for gradual damage. 
The main reason for Covea's decision to decline the claim was that the damage 
occurred before its policy started. Where an insurer seeks to apply an exclusion, the 
onus is on them to provide evidence to support that. And I dont think Covea 
has done that here.
Covea sent a surveyor to the property, who was there for a short time, took a few 
photos, didnt speak with the plumber who was also on site, then issued a very 
brief report to say:
When the surveyor inspected the walk-in cupboard and bathroom he 
observed that the damage is extensive and pre-dates the policy inception; 
and 
The cause of the damage to the walk-in cupboard and bathroom is 
considered to be pre-inception of the policy and not the result of an insured 
cause.
The surveyor provided no insight as to how long the leak had likely gone on for, when 
the leak had likely stopped, and made no comment on the views put forward by the 
plumber that the damage was likely caused by a slow leak that had continued for 
approximately six months and had continued during Coveas period of cover.  
The leak continued for 17 days into Coveas period of cover. Covea said the damage 
hadn't materially worsened in that time, but no evidence has been provided to 
support that assertion. In the absence of any detailed comment in the surveyors 
report, it would be difficult to separate the damage that occurred before and after 
Coveas policy stated. Also, the damage wasnt from an event that only arose before 
its policy started, the event in question was ongoing, even for a short time afterwards. 
So, I dont think Covea has fairly and reasonably relied on the existing damage 
exclusion. Taking all the evidence into account, I dont think its been able to show 
that all the damage was caused pre-inception, and Im provisionally of the view that it 
should deal with the claim and obtain a contribution from Integra towards the costs of 
settling the claim. contribution towards cost of settling the claim
Mrs Rs property has been continuously covered by an insurance policy for the 
insured event that she has suffered. So, her claim must be covered. The leak may 
have started when Mrs R held cover with a different insurer, but the leak continued 
into Coveas period of cover. Our usual approach here would be for the current 
insurer, Covea, to deal with the claim and recover some costs from the previous 
insurer, Integra (subject to the necessary proof being provided). But that is something 
that should be resolved between insurers. It is not something we expect policy 
holders, and certainly not vulnerable policy holders of 80 years of age, to become 
involved in. 
And this seems to be the issue that has led to eight months of unnecessary delays 
for Mrs R in having her fairly simple escape of water claim settled.
Integra has said, in the absence of any evidence of black mould in the photos of the 
damage, it cant be said for sure that the damage occurred while they were on risk. 
Covea has said that without clear evidence to show the damage only started after 
they were on risk they wouldnt accept the claim. But neither insurer has taken any 
steps to properly investigate the damage to ascertain when it likely started. The only 
evidence available to me is Mrs Rs plumbers observation that the damage was 
caused by a slow leak, occurring over a number of months. Coveas surveyor took a 
damp reading of 999 wet and provided a short report and photos which simply said 
the damage was considerable and so pre-dated Covea's period of cover.
The broker emailed both insurers on 19 November 2019 to say, as we often do, we 
find ourselves in a tricky position with a claim registered shortly after inception. He 
also said Ther[e] is as I understand it no issue with the validity of the claim and for 
the customers benefit I need it to be resolved as soon as possible. He also re-stated 
Mrs Rs date of birth, highlighting her vulnerability. However, even this intervention 
didnt lead to a resolution of the matter.
Its clear to me from the email exchange between Covea and Integra, of November 
2019, that they're unable to agree and are refusing to settle this claim in the usual 
way. As Mrs R has already waited for eight months for this matter to be resolved, Im 
not going to delay matters further for her, by requiring additional investigations and 
enquiries to be carried out to determine what specific contribution can be attributed to 
each period of cover. Rather, Im intending to decide that Covea, as Mrs Rs current 
insurer, is to take the lead on settling her claim, and Integra is to pay 50% of the 
costs of settling the claim. I have also issued a provisional decision of todays date, to 
Integra, including this direction.
compensation for upset and inconvenience
As Ive emphasised throughout this decision, Mrs R is 80 years old. When she called 
to report the escape of water and to get the assistance that she reasonably expected 
under her policy, she didnt expect that, in her own words, she'd end up the victim of 
a dispute between two Insurers and lose out completely on my simple right to 
claim.the very reason one takes out Insurance Cover.
Eight months after Mrs R first made her claim, she finds herself still in the position, 
where, although shes continuously had cover in place, neither Integra nor 
Covea, have accepted her claim. Rather, they have pointed to each other and told 
Mrs R that she would need to approach the other with her claim.The policy terms and conditions, in the section headed General conditions about how 
to make a claim: "4. Other insurance say: If you have any other insurance covering 
anything insured by this policy we will pay only our share of any claim.
I understand that this provision is intended to apply to the situation where an insured 
party has two policies covering the same risk, running at the same time. However, its 
relevant to the circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint because it shows that Covea has 
anticipated circumstances arising where it will need to work out what its share of a 
claim is. So, I think it fair to conclude that Covea has some experience in working out 
what its fair share would be. However, in this case, when dealing with an 80 year old 
consumer, who was making her first insurance claim, both Covea and Integra pointed 
to each other and expected Mrs R to resolve, based on brief surveys and 
investigations, who should pay her claim.
Mrs R has repeatedly told us that its been a very worrying time for her, as she only 
has a pension and hasnt made a claim before. She said shes already had to pay the 
£250 excess and £600 to replace the water tank, and shes concerned that no one 
will be responsible for paying for the damage to be repaired. 
In her emails to our investigator, Mrs R has also said, This being such a testing time 
for so many, I feel I am being put under unnecessary extra anxiety by insurance 
cover companies. Not claiming special attention, yet I feel it only fair I am allowed to 
state that I certainly at 80 years of age come under the higher risk groups.plus 
living alone, being a widow with chronic ongoing health issues supports this 
statement of added stress. Shes expressed disappointment that Covea didnt 
accept our investigators view and made the point that it's further extended the period 
of uncertainty for her, a vulnerable customer. 
I agree with our investigator that Mrs R has been caused significant trouble and 
upset by this situation. Coveas decision to decline her claim has led to a prolonged 
period of worry and upset for Mrs R. Im grateful to Mrs R for explaining how Coveas 
actions have affected her, and I do acknowledge that given her age and health 
issues, she has been particularly impacted by whats happened.
Mrs R also disposed of the contents of her linen cupboard due to the water having 
destroyed the contents so badly she says it was impossible for her to keep them. She 
said that she didnt know what to do with the contents and feels upset that she now 
isnt able to make a claim for those contents. Ive listened to the call Mrs R had with 
Covea when she first made her claim, and the call handler did explain that she would 
need to make a separate claim to her contents insurer. That may not be 
unreasonable in principle, but it was clear from listening to the call that Mrs R was 
concerned about her contents and was seeking some reassurance and direction in 
relation to what she should do. But Coveas claim handler didnt provide that. She 
just told her to contact her contents insurer. 
In Mrs Rs circumstances, I think the claims handler ought to have provided Mrs R 
with some general and well-accepted guidance, that she shouldn't dispose of the 
contents if she wished to make a claim. Mrs R said she was recently widowed, shed 
never made an insurance claim before, and was inexperienced in what she should 
and shouldnt do. In those circumstances, I think Coveas claims handler ought to 
have provided Mrs R with additional support and guidance about her claim as a 
whole. Insurers understand that different parts of insurance policies can be 
underwritten by different insurers, but as far as Mrs R was concerned, she paid one premium for her buildings and contents cover, for peace of mind, and expected to be 
protected by that policy in circumstances such as these. 
Mrs R has been let down by both her current and former insurer, at a time in her life 
when she's particularly vulnerable, and the way her claim has been handled has 
undeniably caused her a great deal of worry and upset. While I accept that the claims 
handler was calm and polite, what is apparent is that she wasnt prepared to adjust 
the normal procedure in view of Mrs Rs circumstances. 
In addition to the upset caused by delays, poor claim handling and failing to adapt 
their processes to provide support to an 80-year-old customer, in my view, Covea got 
the claim decision wrong and that resulted in further upset and inconvenience for Mrs 
R. She had no support from her insurer, in working out how to dry out the damaged 
parts of the property, or, as Ive already discussed, how to deal with the damaged 
contents of her linen cupboard. This has caused Mrs R further stress, in addition to 
the upset, worry and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the way her claim 
was handled. 
Mrs R is 80 years old and a vulnerable consumer. In these circumstances I dont 
think £200 is sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset shes suffered as a 
result of the way Covea has handled her claim. 
To compensate Mrs R for the upset and inconvenience shes been caused by the 
way her claim has been handled, Im intending to award £1,500 in total, with Covea 
and Integra each paying £750, for the impact their actions have had on Mrs R.  It also 
follows that I expect Covea to assist Mrs R promptly with having her property 
reinstated as quickly as possible, given the delays shes already suffered in having 
the damage repaired.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Covea to settle Mrs Rs claim (with 
it recovering half of the claim costs from Integra) and pay her £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered due to its claim decisions.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs R replied to confirm that she accepted my provisional decision. She also said she was 
happy for Covea to do the works.
Covea said they would agree to pay the claim and were willing to pay the 50%. However, 
they said theyd appreciate it if they could pay 50% and have Integra pay the remaining 50% 
to Mrs R, as they dont feel it would be fair for them to pay the full amount and then try and 
recover the remaining amount from Integra.
Alternatively, Covea said they can arrange for the works to be completed by their contractors 
on the proviso that they have some form of pre-agreed assurance that Integra will refund 
them the 50%.
Covea also asked that the £750 compensation amount be reviewed as they feel its an unfair 
amount for them to be paying as they feel theyve done far more for Mrs R than Integra 
have. Theyve said that Mrs R has commented throughout the claim how lovely and helpful 
theyve been. They also said theyd been liaising directly with Integra to resolve this for Mrs 
R as well as involving their relationship manager at S to try to intervene, so they feel its 
unfair for them to have to pay the same compensation as Integra.Covea added that in their opinion, Integra should have dealt with this claim from the moment 
the customer contacted them, and as far as they are aware Integra has never sent an 
assessor out on this claim at all despite Mrs Rs request. They say they sent their building 
specialists straight away who said the damage was clearly pre-inception and looking at the 
photos Covea thinks this is clearly obvious too.
Ive taken these comments into account when arriving at my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included my provisional findings, in full, in the Whats Happened section above. As Ive 
already addressed Coveas points about when they think the damage occurred, and who is 
liable to cover the claim, Im not going to repeat those points again here. Coveas further 
comments havent led me to come to a different conclusion about that.
Covea has said theyd either want to pay only 50% of the claim to Mrs R, or have their 
contractors carry out the works subject to the condition that they have agreement from 
Integra to pay 50% of the costs. 
Mrs R has confirmed that shes happy for Coveas contractors to complete the works, and 
given her vulnerabilities, Im satisfied that Covea ought to explore this option, rather than a 
cash settlement, to avoid the difficulties she may encounter trying to arrange a contractor 
herself.
Even if the cash settlement was the preferred route, Im satisfied that Covea ought to pay the 
cash settlement in full and seek reimbursement from Integra. To do so otherwise, would be 
subjecting Mrs R to two different decision makers in respect of what the cash settlement 
should be, and this would likely cause further delays and difficulties for her.
In terms of Covea doing the works, Im also not persuaded it would be reasonable for that to 
be conditional on an express agreement being in place between Covea and Integra first. Im 
conscious that waiting for those parties to be happy with the content of an agreement may 
cause further delays  and its not for us to determine an agreement that a party may later 
wish to legally rely on.
Ive made a direction on the complaint against Integra that it should reimburse Covea half of 
the claim costs and Im satisfied thats sufficient here, for purposes of achieving a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mrs R and the two insurers. Integra had also agreed to this in 
response to the provisional decision I issued on the Integra complaint. 
While I understand Covea wanting assurances about being able to recover half of its claim 
costs from Integra, as I explained in my provisional decision to Covea, as the current insurer 
in this dispute, it ought to have settled the claim subject to its policy terms and conditions; 
and later sought to recover costs from Integra if it considered it appropriate to do so. So, 
should Integra refuse to pay the 50%, despite my direction, then that remains a matter 
between Covea and Integra  as it ought to have been from the outset  but Mrs Rs claim 
shouldnt be delayed, declined, or only partly paid by Covea in the absence of an express 
written agreement with Integra.
Covea has also asked that the £750 compensation payment be re-considered on the basis 
that theyve done more than Integra, to help Mrs R have her claim settled, and on the basis 
that Mrs R has said how lovely and helpful theyve been. Im not disputing that Coveas claim handlers were courteous and polite in their interactions with Mrs R, which she of course, 
appreciated. However, the point I made in my provisional decision, was that Mrs R received 
no actual assistance with her claim from either Covea or Integra. She disposed of all the 
contents of her linen cupboard without keeping a record of the damage, so lost the ability to 
make a claim for those contents. She had to work out how to dry out the damage herself, 
using a heater. Nine months after she made her claim, she is still living in a damaged 
property, concerned about whether she is going to have to fund the cost of the repairs from 
her pension. And shes had nine months of increased worry due to her claim and this 
complaint remaining unresolved, which she has told us has had a detrimental impact on her 
health. As a regulated insurer, Covea is required to promptly settle a valid claim. The 
consequences for Mrs R, of them failing to do so, have been significant, as I detailed in my 
provisional decision. The friendly and polite approach their case handlers took towards Mrs 
R, has not made up for that. 
I would also add that this decision is not concerned with which insurer gave Mrs R better or 
worse service. It is about whether Covea acted fairly in the way it treated Mrs R and handled 
her claim, and whether its actions have caused her stress, worry and inconvenience that 
should be compensated for.
Both insurers have significantly contributed to the stress, upset, worry, delay and 
inconvenience Mrs R has suffered as a result of the way theyve handled her claim. I 
therefore remain of the view that Mrs R should be awarded total compensation of £1,500 
with Covea and Integra each paying £750, for the impact their actions have had on Mrs R. It 
also follows that I expect Covea to assist Mrs R promptly with having her property reinstated 
as quickly as possible, given the delays shes already suffered in having the damage 
repaired.
So, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea to put things right for 
Mrs R, as detailed below.
Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc, to
Assume responsibility for Mrs Rs claim;
Settle the claim subject to its policy terms;
Recover half of the claim costs it incurs from Mrs Rs previous insurer, 
Integra Insurance Solutions Limited; and
Compensate Mrs R £750 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a 
result of the way its handled of her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance Plc to pay the 
award Ive detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman