DRN-3139409
The complaint
Mr K complains that PayPal Europe Sarl et Cie SCA (Paypal) wont offer him a refund 
under its buyer protection policy. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K bought a CCTV unit from an online auction site but some months later it 
developed a fault and stopped working. Mr K contacted the seller of the item on numerous 
occasions but he was unable to get a satisfactory response so he contacted PayPal in 
December 2019 to raise a dispute. Mr K told PayPal that the item was not as described and 
requested a refund. He said he had complained to the seller but he was unable to reach a 
resolution with them directly. Mr K said the product had been sold with a 3 year warranty. 
However, as the seller had not mentioned this now the unit had become faulty, he believed 
the product may not be genuine.
Following our involvement, PayPal said it was unable to uphold Mr Ks dispute as his 
concerns related to an issue with a warranty which isnt covered by PayPals buyer 
protection. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
that PayPals buyer protection covered items that ultimately became faulty and he didnt 
think the issues described by Mr K could be considered as the item being significantly not as 
described by the seller. The Investigator also said he didnt have any evidence showing that 
the item was counterfeit, which is covered under PayPals buyer protection, so he wouldnt 
be in a position to uphold it for this reason either. Overall, our Investigator didnt think Mr Ks 
dispute met any of the criteria for a full refund. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion, he said he had evidence from the 
manufacturer that the seller was not one of its official sellers and was therefore ineligible for 
a 3 year UK warranty as he had been told. Mr K said the product was advertised as genuine 
with the seller stating that he was an official reseller. Mr K also stressed that an item that no 
longer works 3 months after purchase should not be considered fit for purpose. 
Mr K later provided an email from the manufacturer of the CCTV unit that said they didnt 
warrant equipment brought from unapproved distributers or sites.
Our Investigator then went back to PayPal referencing the email. He said the seller was 
advertising the goods as genuine, but the manufacturer had said they didnt sell on the 
website in question. Our Investigator said that this likely meant that the CCTV unit was 
counterfeit and this would entitle Mr K to a refund under PayPals buyer protection policy. 
PayPal responded to say that there wasnt enough evidence to suggest that the CCTV unit 
was counterfeit  this was not what the manufacturers email said. And regardless, Mr K had 
180 days to raise a dispute about this particular purchase and his dispute had been raised 
outside of this timeframe. It reiterated that issues surrounding the warranty of a product fall 
outside the scope of its buyer protection policy. Our Investigator reviewed the case again 
and agreed that PayPal had acted reasonably for the reasons it had set out. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
PayPals Buyer Protection policy sets out that customers may be eligible for a refund 
if the product they have purchased turns out to be counterfeit. However, Im not 
satisfied that there is enough evidence to suggest this is the case here. The email 
from the manufacturer provided by Mr K states Unfortunately we dont warrant 
equipment bought on unapproved distributors or sites, we dont sell direct or install. 
This email suggests that the manufacturer does not offer a warranty on products that 
it hasnt sold directly or that have been sold by unapproved distributers. It does not 
say that the product is counterfeit and I dont think it necessarily follows that this is 
the case either. Overall, Im not satisfied that there is enough evidence to suggest 
that the product Mr K bought is counterfeit and so I dont think PayPal have acted 
unreasonably in not offering him a refund for this reason.
Ive also considered that the seller described the goods as coming with a 3 year 
warranty - when ultimately it didnt. I understand the frustration this must have caused 
Mr K upon discovering that the unit is now faulty. However, I dont think this amounts 
to the unit being significantly not as described which would warrant a refund under 
PayPals buyer protection policy. In the main, Mr K received what he paid for at the 
time, a working CCTV unit, albeit one that later developed a fault. 
I also have to bear in mind that PayPals buyer protection policy specifically states 
that it does not act as a product warranty and that a dispute must be raised within 
180 days. As Mr K did not raise a dispute within the given timeframe and ultimately, 
he wants a refund for a product which became faulty months after purchase, Im not 
persuaded that he meets any of the criteria for a refund under PayPals buyer 
protection policy.
I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr K has found himself in. I 
appreciate that he has lost out financially here and he no longer has a working CCTV unit. 
But I dont think his loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of PayPal. And so I 
cant fairly ask PayPal to refund Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against PayPal Europe Sarl et Cie SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman