DRN-2374515
The complaint
The company, Town Garage (T), and Mr S, have complained that BUPA Insurance Limited 
hasnt provided cover, despite taking premiums.
 
What happened
T had a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA, arranged and 
managed through a broker. Mrs S is the company secretary and has brought the complaint 
to us on behalf of Mr S and T. 
Mrs S says BUPA has been taking premiums for Mr S but failed to add him to the group 
policy. BUPA explained that it had asked the broker to provide an application form for 
underwriting purposes, but this was never provided. BUPA said despite this not being 
completed, if Mr S had made a claim, BUPA would have provided cover and would have 
asked for the information it needed at the time. Mrs S feels the premiums should be 
refunded as Mr S wasnt covered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint as BUPA would 
have provided cover if a claim had been made.  
Mrs S disagreed and has made the following comments, in summary:
She was told Mr S wasnt on cover for several years.
Premiums were paid but no cover was provided and so the premiums were taken by 
deceit.
She was told premiums would be refunded and this is a verbal agreement which she 
will pursue.
Mr S policy was transferred on several occasions  and she wasnt asked to send a 
new application form previously.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Although Mr S hadnt been named on the membership certificate, this was because BUPA 
was waiting for a completed application form from the broker. Without this, BUPA didnt have 
the relevant information for underwriting purposes. However, if Mr S had made a claim, 
BUPA would have asked for a completed application form and would have considered any 
claims at that stage. 
Ive considered what would have happened if Mr S had been correctly added to the policy - 
the premiums would still have been payable. Mrs S says Mr S doesnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions and so the application form would have confirmed this and BUPA would 
have dealt with any claims as they would have done, had the application form been 
completed when requested.
BUPA has also provided confirmation that the policy was priced taking into consideration the 
required cover for Mr S. And so although he wasnt named on the policy, he would still have 
been covered and any eligible claim would have been met. As a result, no loss has occurred.
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied BUPA hasnt acted unfairly by refusing to 
refund premiums. And the reason why Mr S hadnt been added was because BUPA was 
waiting for a completed application form from the broker. This isnt something BUPA can be 
held responsible for. 
As the application form wasnt provided, BUPA didnt add Mr S to the membership 
certificates. Having looked at the membership certificates, the members name and date of 
birth are included as well as any pre-existing conditions  so I dont think BUPA did anything 
wrong by not adding Mr S to the policy as it didnt have the information it needed, and which 
it had requested.
Mrs S says she was told premiums would be refunded and that this was verbally agreed. But 
I havent seen any evidence of this. BUPA didnt speak directly to Mrs S but communicated 
through the broker. In addition, Mrs S has said BUPA hadnt previously asked for an 
application form when changes were made. But BUPA is entitled to ask for further 
information and clarification when any changes are requested. In this case, whether or not 
an application form was provided hasnt made any difference as Mrs S says Mr S didnt have 
any conditions to declare. 
Mrs S has commented that although BUPA says it would have provided cover, thats only 
because no claims were made. I dont have any reason to doubt what BUPA says. As the 
premiums had been paid and Mr S had no conditions to declare, I dont see any reason why 
any eligible claims wouldnt be paid. 
I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this situation. And it cant be held 
responsible for the brokers failure to provide a completed application form.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman