DRN-2711755
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
is charging a success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms C said shed made an enquiry with FTR about whether shed 
been mis-sold PPI with any of her lenders. Ms C said shed never authorised FTR 
to pursue any claims for her. And hadnt signed any of their forms. When she was 
sent documents to complete, Ms C said she messaged FTR to say No Thanks.
In February 2020, Ms C was told by one of her lenders Ill call L that shed been mis-
sold PPI, they offered her compensation for this. In July 2020 FTR sent Ms C an invoice 
asking her to pay their fee for her successful PPI claim. Ms C complained to FTR.
FTR said Ms C had signed an LoA in August 2019 and theyd submitted this to L. They 
said Ms C hadnt cancelled her agreement within the 14-day cooling off period. They said 
the PPI questionnaire was only asked for to strengthen Ms Cs claim and hadnt been 
needed as her lender had auto converted her claim based on the LoA theyd sent. As Ms 
Cs claim was successful FTR said their fee was justified.
Ms C wasnt happy with FTRs response, she said she hadnt authorised FTR to act on 
her behalf and the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Ms C hadnt returned any of the documentation FTR had asked 
her to complete. And shed let FTR know she didnt want them to pursue a PPI claim for 
her. She said FTR should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree, they said Ms C had agreed to their terms and conditions. The lender had 
auto converted her claim, and she hadnt followed the terms and conditions in cancelling 
the agreement. FTR asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight 
on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, 
I base my decision on what I think most likely happened.
FTR feel strongly that Ms C agreed to use their services and that it was because of their 
enquiry her claims with L were successful. I can also understand Ms Cs frustration as 
she doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf.
Its not in dispute that Ms C made an enquiry with FTR about a PPI claim. But she 
says she didnt authorise FTR to act on her behalf. In making my decision I need to 
determine whether its more likely than not that Ms C had authorised FTR to act on 
her
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. I 
will also consider whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Ms Cs 
lender L in August 2019, two days before the deadline for making such claims. The
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms C has given 
this service.
Ive looked at FTRs web journey application process. FTR has shown the screens Ms 
C would have gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of 
Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to 
the headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Ms C about her personal details and 
lenders. On completing the application, FTR has said there is a need for a box to be 
ticked to show the terms and conditions had been agreed, and its then a LoA would be 
generated, populated with the information provided in the application. FTR said the LoA 
can only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to add a date.
FTR has shown an audit trail for the application which shows the personal details 
provided. So, on balance I think Ms C authorised FTR to act on her behalf.
I will now consider whether Ms C cancelled her agreement with FTR.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were available to see. FTRs terms 
and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR 
to continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the 
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have 
received a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.And give details of the various channels Ms C could have used to cancel the agreement, 
verbal, written or in person.
So, Ive considered when the 14-day cooling off period would have started.
FTRs records show that they were notified by L that PPI had been found for Ms Cs claim 
in December 2019. And I can see that Ms C was sent notification of this on 6 December 
2019. The notification includes Ms Cs FTR reference number and said  You HAVE paid 
PPI and action is needed to receive your refund. So, from this point FTR would have been 
providing their claims service. The same notification refers Ms C to a link to complete a PPI 
questionnaire. I can see from the messages sent by FTR that the success of any mis-sold 
claim wasnt reliant on the completion of the PPIQ, as they say you may be unable to 
claim PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI questionnaire.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
(CMC) amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of 
claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request, as happened here. Any information provided in the PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. I can see from FTRs records 
that Ms C didnt return the PPI questionnaire. FTR has said that their fee is justified 
because Ms Cs lender auto converted, which means they investigated Ms Cs claim 
based on the details they sent in the LoA. So, the PPI questionnaire wasnt needed for Ms 
Cs PPI claim to be considered.
I can see FTRs terms and conditions say:
Claim(s) means Your Claim(s) and/or positive identification of PPI auto-converted to 
a claim by the Company.
But I havent seen any notification to Ms C form FTR to let her know her claim had been 
auto converted. But the notification sent on 6 December 2019 is clear that PPI had been 
found.
FTRs terms and conditions say the 14-day cooling off period starts from the date you sign 
the Letter of Authority But at this point Ms C would have considered she was only agreeing 
to a free PPI check. So, I dont think the 14-day cooling off period for acceptance of FTRs 
claims service would start until Ms C was made aware that PPI had been identified.
And FTRs records show this wouldnt have been before 6 December 2019 when FTR 
sent notification to Ms C You Have paid PPI..So I think Ms C would have had up to 20 
December 2019 to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period.
I can see from FTRs records Ms C sent them a text message on 7 December 2019 in 
response to the above notification that said, No Thanks. And this was within the 14 day 
cooling off period. But FTR didnt accept this as a cancellation as they told Ms C shed to 
call them to discuss her claim.
Ive considered the regulations relevant to this complaint. And FTR, as there was a right to 
cancel should have provided Ms C with a cancellation form. The regulations also say that to 
exercise the right to cancel Ms C needed to provide a clear statement and gives examples 
of the method for doing this, letter, fax or email. As FTR didnt provide Ms C with a model 
cancellation form. Ive considered whether shed made a clear statement.
Ms C received a text message that said To apply for a PPI refund you need to complete a short questionnaire.. Ms Cs response was to say through the same communications 
channel  No Thanks. And from FTRs response they took this as Ms C wanting to 
cancel her claim but they didnt accept it as a cancellation because of the 
communications channel she used to do this. But the regulations dont say what channel 
must be used they only give examples, letter, fax or email. So, I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable of FTR to reject Ms Cs cancellation simply because shed sent it by text 
message. And I dont think it was fair or reasonable to place the onus solely on Ms C to 
contact FTR to discuss her claim, when FTR could have provided her with a cancellation 
form which is a requirement of the relevant regulations.
FTR has said as Ms C received an offer as a result of their submission of the LoA their 
fee is justified. But from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Ms C had told FTR she no 
longer wanted to use their claims service within the 14 day cooling off period. So, I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for FTR to charge their fee.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive their success fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
Anne Scarr
 
Ombudsman