DRN-3245009
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Select Contracts UK Limited (Select) 
when he acquired a new car with a personal contract hire agreement in August 2021.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr B took out a personal contract hire agreement to acquire a new car. He 
says he was mis-sold the car as he was mis-informed about the length of time it would take 
to deliver it. Mr B told us:
He was looking for a readily available car and because of this he decided to 
purchase an in-stock car in early August 2021. He had planned to deliberate on 
things over the weekend, but was persuaded by the salesman into signing the 
agreement there and then  he could always use the cooling off period if he 
changed his mind;
he was told that delivery for an in-stock car would be 2-4 weeks, and on this basis, 
he was happy to place his order;
the following day, he was advised that delivery would be late September  around 
eight weeks later  before his delivery date was pushed back a further four weeks to 
late October;
he managed to secure delivery on 22 September  seven weeks after hed placed his 
order  but he doesnt think Select shouldve described the car as in-stock and he 
feels he was pressured and rushed into completing his order;
the delay in delivery caused him inconvenience and some additional costs; he got rid 
of his own car sooner that he wouldve done and then had to use public transport or 
car share with his wife;
he wants an apology from Select and some compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience its caused him.
Select apologised if it had given Mr B cause to feel that he hadnt received a satisfactory 
level of service, but it did not uphold his complaint. It explained that it had no direct control 
over delivery times; it was reliant on third parties such as manufacturers and dealer groups, 
and that delivery issues can occur from time to time.
Select said it had fully investigated Mr Bs experience and it was satisfied its representative 
had acted in good faith, providing vehicle status and delivery timescales that he believed to 
be correct. It went on to explain that a global manufacturing issue with semiconductors was 
affecting the delivery of vehicles, and it was for this reason that its representative had 
advised Mr B to secure his new car as soon as possible so that he didnt miss out on the 
limited stock.
It says that anticipated delivery dates provided to customers at the initial point of enquiry are 
estimates and are not guarantees  this is because theyre based on stock levels  and a 
confirmed delivery date is only available once it has been provided by the manufacturer. 
Select highlighted a section of Mr Bs signed order form which stated that the estimated 
delivery date was between September and October 2021 and that this was not a contractual 
obligation. And it confirmed that the new car was delivered within this timeframe.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
he recognised that Mr B wouldve been disappointed with any delay in the delivery of his 
new car, but he said that it had been delivered within the timeframe detailed on the Vehicle 
Order Form signed by Mr B on 4 August 2021.
He said hed considered what Mr B had been told by the leasing consultant, but he didnt 
think hed seen any evidence to suggest that thered been an intention to mislead Mr B.
Mr B disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says that the car shouldnt have 
been described as being in stock and that he shouldnt have had to wait eight weeks for 
delivery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what hes already said. I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and disappointment  he wanted to lease a new car and 
would naturally want it to be delivered as soon as possible. And no-one disputes that the 
leasing consultant indicated that the new car could be delivered within four weeks once a car 
had been chosen, the finance had been approved, and the car had been secured.
But I also have to take into consideration that when Mr B came to place his order, a Vehicle 
Order Form was completed and then signed by Mr B. This form clearly states, in bold, that 
the estimated delivery date would be in September or October and that this was not a 
contractual obligation. And I understand that the new car was delivered on 22 September; 
within the non-contractual timeframe stated on the signed order form.
I appreciate that Mr B had to car share with his wife and also use public transport for the 
couple of weeks between disposing of his own car and the delivery of his new car. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Select responsible for this. I say this because any 
delay was outside the control of Select and was a result of wider issues in the supply chain.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman