DRN-1988325
The complaint
This is a complaint that Black Horse Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr G. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy taken out in 2007, which covered 
payments on a vehicle hire purchase agreement. Black Horse says it sold Mr G the policy by 
phone, after it had approved his loan agreement. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr G and his representatives have said, but Ive decided I dont have 
strong enough evidence to say the policy was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr G has said the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent. However, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of 
this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And, looking at the evidence, it seems 
the PPI was sold as something separate from the actual vehicle financing. It looks as though 
it was sold by phone, and the evidence is that the PPI salespeople were trained and 
instructed to make clear there was a choice about the PPI, and that it was not connected to 
whether the financing would be approved. I cant be sure, but I think it most likely that Mr G 
was sold the policy by phone and was given a choice, even if, so many years later, he cant 
now remember the details. 
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mr G, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped meet the 
finance payments for a period longer than Mr Gs employment sick pay and other resources 
lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so 
leaving Mr G more financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr G wouldnt need to 
fall back on other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Black Horse didnt 
tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Black Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman