DRN-3555636
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr R have complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr R contacted IPA to make a claim when they found a water leak in their home. 
IPA sent an engineer. The engineer told Mrs B and Mr R that he would need to cut a hole in 
the ceiling to access the pipe and fix the leak. However, he didnt have the correct tools with 
him. He told Mrs B and Mr R he would come back the following day. However, the engineer 
didnt arrive. An engineer visited a few days later after some chasing by Mrs B and Mr R.
Mrs B and Mr R complained to IPA because they were unhappy about the delays and said 
this had also resulted in further damage to their home. When IPA replied, it said the policy 
only covered dealing with the emergency itself. However, it accepted there had been delays 
with sending an engineer and offered £150 compensation.
When Mrs B and Mr R complained to this service, our investigator said IPA didnt need to 
deal with damage caused by the leak itself and there wasnt evidence to show that the 
delays in sending an engineer made the damage worse. She said the £150 compensation 
offered for the delays in sending the engineer was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mrs B and Mr R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require IPA to do anything further. I will explain why.
It isnt in dispute that there was a delay in IPA sending an engineer following the first visit. 
This seems to have been due to a miscommunication about what the engineer needed to do 
to access the leak. It was only when Mrs B and Mr R were able to speak to IPA and explain 
what had been agreed that this was resolved. So, I can understand that they were 
concerned about the delays and the potential impact this was having on their home.
Mrs B and Mr R have also said the delays meant the damage to their home was worse than 
it would have otherwise been. Ive seen photos of the water damage and can see it has 
affected the walls and ceiling. Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely there would have 
been some damage from the water leak regardless. I think its difficult to say what damage 
was the result of the original leak and what was the result of the delays in an engineer 
revisiting. Ive also read the engineers record from the visit, which said it was a slow leak. 
So, I dont think I can fairly say that IPA was responsible for the damage or that the delays 
made a significant difference.
The policy said the home emergency cover was to make the home safe or secure or 
prevent damage or further damage to the home. It also said there was an exclusion for Any 
damage to the fabric of your home and any contents, fixtures, fitting or other item of 
equipment, not directly causing the breakdown or emergency. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think IPA needs to deal with the damage.
IPA accepted that there were issues with the way the claim was handled and, as a result, 
offered £150 compensation. Thinking about everything that happened, I think that was fair in 
the circumstances. I understand that IPA has already paid the compensation, so I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman