DRN-3326526
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Motability Operations Limited (MO) handled a complaint 
about the quality of a car she was financing through an agreement with them.
What happened
Mrs A has been represented at times by a family member. For ease, and as Mrs A is named 
on the finance agreement, I will refer only to Mrs A in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MO, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt as appears to be the case here, then MO, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. 
When Mrs A complained to MO in 2020 they referred the complaint to their scheme partner 
(Ill call them R). Ive reviewed the compensation that R awarded Mrs A for the obvious 
distress and inconvenience caused. I can understand it would have been inconvenient to 
have been provided with a courtesy car that was not of the correct standard and Ive seen 
that Mrs A wasnt provided with accurate information about the location and status of her 
vehicle. There were also difficulties getting through to R. In the circumstances I think the 
compensation paid by R to Mrs A was sufficient for the distress and inconvenience Ive seen 
documented.
But I think MO created further distress and inconvenience for Mrs A by asking her to liaise 
with R. Mrs As agreement was with MO and not R. It was for MO to resolve matters for her 
and I dont think they should therefore have closed the case in November 2020 and simply 
referred Mrs A to R. 
MO have admitted that there is more that they can do by them working with R to try and 
improve the service provided to Scheme customers. Mrs A wouldnt have had to experience 
the problems she did with R had MO dealt with the issues for her and, in the circumstances, 
I would agree with our investigator that MO should pay Mrs A a further £200 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience they caused her when they closed the case prematurely.
Putting things right
Im asking MO to put things right by paying Mrs A £200 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Motability Operations 
Limited to pay Mrs A £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman