DRN-3492975
The complaint
Ms P complains that she has suffered a financial loss because she followed advice from 
Smart Currency Exchange Limited (SCE) to enter into a forward currency exchange 
contract.  
Ms Ps was represented in bringing her complaint by a third party. For simplicity, Ive referred 
to all comments as having been made by Ms P.
What happened
Ms P opened a foreign currency trading account with SCE online in February 2020. SCE 
sent her confirmation of this together with the terms and conditions that related to her 
account.
In or around February 2020, Ms P contacted SCE to arrange for £10,000 to be paid from her 
own UK bank account, converted to Euros and transferred to a bank account she held in 
France. SCE provided details of the exchange rate and Ms P agreed to proceed with the 
transaction.
In or around November 2020, Ms P contacted SCE again. She said she was selling her 
property and moving to France. She said a buyer had been found for her property, but it 
would likely take a few months before the sale completed. She then wanted to transfer the 
net proceeds together with her savings to her bank account in France. Due to fluctuations in 
the GBP/Euro exchange rate, she asked SCE to provide options to fix the exchange rate to 
enable her to complete the transfer by a future date.
SCE provided rates based upon different contract lengths between two and 12 months. They 
also said she would need to pay them a deposit of around 10% of the amount of the 
contract. SCE explained the options Ms P had in the event her property sale fell through. 
This included extending or cancelling the contract together with any associated costs or 
changes in the contract rate offered.
Ms P agreed to proceed with a forward exchange contract for £525,000 with a term of four 
months. SCE completed the contract and told her she would receive email confirmation.
Around March 2021, Ms P found she was unable to fulfil the contract as her property sale 
hadnt completed. She asked SCE to review and extend the contract as it would take a 
minimum of three months to complete the sale. SCE confirmed the contract could be 
extended using a lower rate theyd given to her when she first agreed the original contract.
In subsequent exchanges, Ms P says SCE told her the contract meant they were committed 
to purchasing €574,875 and that cancellation of the contract would incur a loss of around 
£35,000, This would be deducted from Ms Ps deposit. Unhappy with this, Ms P sought 
advice from a third party.
In or around May 2021, the third party wrote to SCE on behalf of Ms P to complain. They 
said SCE hadnt fully understood Ms Ps requirements and had deliberately presented a 
contractual agreement which wasnt required. They said SCE provided a product that wasnt 
fit for Ms Ps needs and the contract was offered without explanation and adequate detail. 
They also said SCE had failed to consider the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
Conduct of Business (COB) requirements and suggested Ms P had relied upon the advice 
given by SCE. They asked SCE to terminate the contract without cost to Ms P.
SCE responded to Ms Ps complaint in writing. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong 
or misunderstood Ms Ps requirements. They confirmed Ms P was not offered any advice or 
a review of her requirements or needs. They said SCE do not offer an advisory service and 
only deal with execution only trades.
Ms P wasnt happy with SCEs response to her complaint, so decided to refer matters to this 
service. Having reviewed all the information available, our investigator thought SCE had 
provided Ms P with all the options available and she chose the option that best suited her 
needs. He didnt think SCE needed to take any further action.
Ms P disagreed with out investigators findings. So, her complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened based upon all 
the evidence.
Having considered the information contained within SCEs terms and conditions, together 
with information detailed on their website, Im satisfied that SCE made it clear that they dont 
provide an advisory service to their clients and any choice of product is ultimately made by 
Ms P alone. This is known as an execution only service  i.e. a trading service that is 
restricted to only the execution of trades without the client receiving any advice about the 
merits or risks of the transaction or its suitability.
Ive listened to call recordings between Ms P and SCE. One relates to the initial exchange of 
£10,000. The second to the forward exchange contract taken for £525,000..
On balance, Im not persuaded that Ms P was advised by SCE. Only that they provided 
factual information about the options available to Ms P based upon the requirements shed 
stated to them. Ive found no evidence suggesting that SCE recommended any option over 
another. Im also satisfied that SCE clearly explained the commitment Ms P was entering 
into, including the fact that cancellation of the contract might result in an exchange loss 
which would be deducted from her deposit.
I believe SCE provided appropriate information to enable Ms P to make an informed choice, 
based upon the information shed provided and her stated requirement to fix the exchange 
rate to a future point. And while Ms P suggests SCE limited her choices to one and heavily 
put forward this option, shed made it clear she wanted to fix into a rate at a future point. Of 
the services SCE had available, a forward contract appeared to meet that requirement.
Ms P has questioned the amount of the forward exchange contract she agreed to. But the 
decision could only be hers, based upon the amounts that only she wouldve known for 
certain. While she discussed those amounts with SCE, their role wasnt to advise her on the 
amount, only to clarify what she wanted.
Ms P has referenced spot contracts as being a more suitable alternative option. But this 
wouldve limited Ms P only to the rate available at the time she wanted to complete any 
transaction. Ms P had expressed concerns to SCE about how rates would be impacted by 
BREXIT negotiations at the time. Shed made it clear she wanted to tie into a rate before 
rates dropped further. So, a spot rate wouldnt offer her that comfort or any advanced 
guarantee of rate.
Finally, Ms P has suggested that some of the product explanation was muddled. While I 
accept that in hindsight she may think that, with a non-advised service the onus rested with Ms P to satisfy herself that the solution she chose was right for her. SCE werent able to do 
that for her but did appear willing to answer and clarify any concerns she mightve had.
I do appreciate that any potential loss incurred by Ms P, as a result of entering into the 
forward exchange contract, will undoubtedly have been very stressful and concerning for 
her. I want to reassure Ms P that Ive carefully considered everything shes said. While I 
realise she will be disappointed, I cant reasonably say that SCE have done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman