DRN-3217202
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing money
to a scam.
What happened
Miss B made three payments from her HSBC account in February and March 2019 for
building work totalling £1,650.
Payment Date Type of transaction Amount (£)
1 19/02/2019 Online 325
2 22/02/2019 Online 225
3 06/03/2019 Phone 1,100
Total 1,650
Miss B called HSBC in April 2019 to report shed been scammed. HSBC tried to recover
Miss Bs payments. Ultimately, whilst it credited £50 to Miss Bs account to say sorry for not
returning a call, it wasnt able to recover Miss Bs money, and it didnt offer to reimburse her.
Miss B referred her complaint about HSBC to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2021 explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint. I said that Id look at any more comments and evidence that I got by 
15 December 2021, before making my final decision.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision by email. In summary, she has reiterated the 
fact that she was scammed by the builder. And shes said shes a vulnerable person who 
has been under a lot of stress. Shes asked if I can review things and recover her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss B has said in response to my provisional decision, and I 
sympathise with her situation. However, I have decided not to uphold the complaint about 
HSBC for the same reasons as I explained in my provisional decision. I know Miss B has 
been waiting for a long time and this is not the outcome she has been hoping for. I 
understand why she has wanted to do all she can to try to get her money back, and Im sorry 
she lost money to a scam. Here, however, I need to decide whether it would be fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to be held responsible for this loss. Ive explained again below why I 
dont think it would be.
The relevant payments Miss B made in this case pre-date the Contingent Reimbursement
Model (CRM) Code. At the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Miss Bs HSBC account. I dont think I can say  given
the payments in question here, taken singularly or collectively  that HSBC unreasonably
failed to intervene before executing Miss Bs instructions, or that it would be reasonable here
to hold HSBC responsible for Miss Bs loss.
As Ive said, there is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to
fraud and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in
every transaction. The first two payments here, instructed by Miss B online, were for £325
and £225. The third payment  instructed by Miss B over the phone for £1,100  still wasnt,
in my view, sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious for me to say HSBC ought to
have done more than it did.
Miss B has said she is vulnerable and has indicated she has alerted HSBC to this. But
HSBC doesnt have any record that Miss B alerted it to this before the payments in question
here; nor have I seen evidence HSBC knew about this at the time of the payments  as
opposed to afterwards. So this doesnt change my mind about what I would and would not
have expected HSBC to do at the time in question.
I understand Miss B reported the scam to HSBC on 10 April 2019. I am satisfied from the
information I have seen that Miss Bs payments had, by then, already been removed from
the payee account. So I think, no matter how quickly HSBC had acted to try to recover the
funds from the payee account on being told by Miss B on 10 April 2019 about the scam, that
HSBC would have remained unable to recover the funds.
I am satisfied, therefore, that HSBC should not reasonably, in this case, be held responsible
for the loss Miss B has sadly suffered as a result of a scam. I also think that the £50 HSBC
credited to Miss B for customer service was adequate and fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman