DRN-3802241
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund him the amount he 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr S was directed by a fake profile on social media to a business called APEX 
pay (A) after communicating with A Mr S made a small investment which gave a good return. 
After seeing the potential of short-term investments Mr S decided to increase the amount he 
was investing and made a payment of £2,177.13 via the cryptocurrency exchange 
Crypto.com to A using his Santander credit card
When Mr S tried to make a withdrawal from his account with A, he was told he would have to 
make further deposits first. At this point Mr S realised he had become the victim of a scam. 
Mr S was unable to recover any of the money he had sent to A.
Santander explained it was unable to process a section 75 claim, or a chargeback for the 
payments Mr S had made as they did not meet the criteria for these processes. Santander 
also didnt think it was responsible for Mr Ss loss, so it refused to refund him for the loss he 
had incurred.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr S and Santander sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Santander 
should refund any of the money Mr S has lost because of this scam.
Santander was unable to attempt a recovery of Mr Ss funds via section 75. This is because 
the circumstances of the payment Mr S made did not meet the section 75 requirements. Mr 
S wouldnt have a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against Crypto.com, 
given he received the cryptocurrency he paid for.
Santander was also unable to obtain a refund of the payment Mr S made on his credit card 
by requesting a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr S was dealing with A, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr S didnt 
make the credit card payments to A, He paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Crypto.com). This is important because Santander was only able to process chargeback 
claims against the merchant he paid (Crypto.com), not another party (such as A).
The service provided by Crypto.com would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ss payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Crypto.com provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr S paid. As Crypto.com 
provided the requested service to Mr S any chargeback attempt would likely be 
unsuccessful.
Mr S has accepted he authorised the payment he made to Crypto.com, so the starting point 
here is that Mr S is responsible. However, as Mr S has said, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Santander should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payment Mr S was making.
Mr S made a one-off single payment to Crypto.com from his credit card. While he had not 
used his credit card to make payments to Crypto.com before, Crypto.com is a legitimate 
business that wouldnt cause Santander any concern. While the payment Mr S made was 
high compared to other payments Mr S had made in the past from his credit card it wasnt for 
a significant enough value that I would have expected it to trigger Santanders fraud 
prevention systems. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Santander should step in every 
time one of its customers pays a larger amount than usual to a legitimate business they 
havent paid before.
Mr S has quoted several rules, regulations, and laws to support his position, some of which 
cant be considered in relation to the payments he made. But for the reasons Ive explained 
above I dont think the payment Mr S made to Crypto.com would have reasonably triggered 
Santanders fraud prevention systems. So, I dont think it was able to step in and prevent the 
scam Mr S fell victim to, and its not responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman