DRN-2970886
The complaint
Miss J complains that the maturity payment she received from Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(Zurich) wasnt in line with the terms and conditions of her mortgage endowment policy.
Miss J is being represented in this complaint. For ease, references to Miss J include 
the comments, actions etc. of her representative.
What happened
In 2000, Miss J took out a mortgage endowment policy with Zurich. It had a target of 
£29,300 and a term of 20 years.
In 2007, Miss J complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She said Zurich hadnt 
explained the risk that the policy wouldnt meet the target amount; other repayment 
options hadnt been discussed; and the policy wasnt suitable for her.
Zurich offered Miss J redress of almost £1,000  calculated based on her loss up to that 
point compared to if shed taken out a repayment mortgage. She accepted this and 
switched to a repayment mortgage.
After that, Miss J continued to receive yearly letters from Zurich about whether her 
policy was on track to reach the target amount at maturity. Most of these warned that 
the policy wasnt on track. But she says she understood from the terms and conditions 
that it would meet the target, so long as she accepted any proposed premium 
increases.
Zurich paid Miss J just under £27,000 when the policy matured. She complained, but it 
said the maturity value wasnt guaranteed and was dependent on how well the 
investment performed. It also pointed out that shed already accepted compensation on 
the basis that she hadnt been made aware of the risk.
Miss J referred her complaint to our service, maintaining that she was entitled to the full 
target. But our investigator didnt agree. Miss J says that, whilst she was receiving the 
warning letters, she thought the original terms superseded these. As she didnt receive 
recommendations to increase the premium, she thought Zurich was happy to guarantee 
the £29,300 maturity value based on what she was paying.
In July 2021, I provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint. In summary, that was 
because I found Miss J had already accepted a full and final settlment from Zurich for any 
complaint in relation to her endowment. I invited both parties to submit any further 
comments and evidence. Zurich has confirmed that it has nothing to add. Miss J says she 
wants me to consider the following points:
By accepting the compensation, she wasnt waiving her rights to the terms and 
conditions of her contract  which she feels clearly guarantee the target. The 
warning letters didnt make any difference to this.
When the pandemic impacted the markets and the policy fell below the 
guaranteed amount, she tried to engage with Zurich to mitigate this. She had to 
chase up responses, and her proposal to leave the fund in place so it could grow 
once the markets recovered was refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering the new points raised by Miss J, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Miss Js point that she doesnt feel the compensation she accepted should 
affect the terms and conditions of her policy. But I dont think that overrides the points I set 
out in my provisional decision. The compensation Miss J accepted related to a complaint 
about the set-up of her policy and what she was entitled to expect from it. And its clear to 
me that this current complaint also relates to that. 
In any event, even treating this a new and distinct complaint, Im mindful of the terms of 
her acceptance in 2007. By taking the redress offered at that point, she wasnt simply 
accepting this to resolve her mis-sale complaint. As the final response letter explained 
(with my emphasis):
This compensation is paid in full and final settlement of any 
complaint against Zurich Advice Network Limited and Zurich 
Assurance Ltd in connection with this endowment plan and your 
mortgage.
By accepting the compensation, Miss J waived her rights to pursue any further 
complaints against Zurich in relation to her mortgage endowment policy. In my view, 
that would reasonably include a complaint about how Zurich has interpreted and 
applied the account terms. Or a complaint about how it dealt with her requests in the 
run up to her policy maturing.
Its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
mindful that our service exists as an alternative to the courts. And it seems to me that 
Miss J has already reached a full and final settlement with Zurich in relation to any 
complaint about this policy. In the circumstances, I therefore dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to award Miss J compensation in connection to this complaint about her 
policy. That would go against the full and final settlement she reached with Zurich.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided that Zurich Assurance Ltd doesnt need to take 
any further action to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman