DRN-1902260
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) trading as Chelsea Building 
Society mis-sold them a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
YBS have taken responsibility for the sale so to simplify matters it is this business I will refer 
to throughout my decision.
Around 1997 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with YBS. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr A wasnt 
able to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs A believe the policy was part of the mortgage package and say that they would 
never have agreed to take out PPI. Due to the length of time that has passed and lack of sales 
documentation YBS have not been able to confirm this  but say that PPI wouldve only been 
applied if Mr and Mrs A had ticked to take it on the mortgage application and filled out a 
separate application for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
wasnt enough information to show that Mr and Mrs A didnt make an informed choice about 
taking out the policy and that it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs A disagree. They say that they didnt need the policy and that they didnt want it 
or knowingly accept to have it.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
It is not clear whether PPI was condition of the mortgage, but Ive seen a copy of a mortgage 
statement and can see that the mortgage was an interest only mortgage. In this situation from 
what I understand about lending at the time, I think its fair to say that it was not uncommon 
for businesses to sell mortgages with a condition that PPI was taken. 
This is not unfair or mis-selling  the business is entitled to decide on what basis they wish to 
lend to customers. And it is up to the customer to decide if they are happy with the terms and 
conditions of the lending on offer  if they are not they are free to go elsewhere.
That being said YBS say that for PPI to be applied to a mortgage Mr and Mrs A wouldve 
had to tick a box for it on the mortgage application form and complete a separate application 
for it. Understandably due to the passage of time YBS no longer has any of the mortgage 
documentation from Mr and Mrs As sale. But I have seen some samples of PPI and 
mortgage documentation from the time that supports that Mr and Mrs A had to actively select 
to take PPI.
Ive made my make my decision based on what information I have and what I think is more 
likely to have happened. 
Mr and Mrs A have provided us with a copy of their mortgage statements from the time. On 
one I can see it gives the opening balance of the mortgage and then adds to it:
Interest;
Property Insurance;
ASU/redundancy cover (PPI); and
Fees/Sundry debits.
On another statement there is a separate section titled Insurance Products which outlines 
the various products included with the mortgage monthly payment including PPI and 
buildings and contents insurance.
On the face of it I think these statements appear to present PPI as part of an overall package. 
But from what Ive seen of YBSs sales process Mr and Mrs A had to make an active choice 
to take PPI. So I cant say if the PPI was part of the mortgage package or not. But even if it 
was as I stated before this doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold. YBS just needed to make it clear 
PPI was part of the package and given that PPI is clearly shown on the mortgage statements I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs A wouldve understood they had PPI. 
And if they hadnt agreed to a mortgage package with the inclusion of PPI - or actively 
selected PPI outside of a package - I think they wouldve questioned why it was showing on 
their statements. 
I accept it may not have been clear from the mortgage statement to Mr and Mrs A that ASU 
was PPI but I wouldve thought if they didnt know what this premium was for they wouldve 
raised this with YBS as they would want to know what they were paying for. 
So on balance, at the time of the mortgage was taken out and the policy sold, I think Mr and 
Mrs A wouldve understood that they had a PPI policy whether that was by active choice or 
as part of their mortgage package and that they agreed to take it. Though I can understand 
given the amount of time that has past why they might not remember this.
From what we know of YBS PPI sales, they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think it was any different here. What this means is that 
YBS didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs A, it just gave them information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that were clear, fair and not misleading so they could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if YBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I think 
Mr and Mrs A wouldve still taken the mortgage and PPI if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
Mr A was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like Mr A wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
Mr A says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay, had savings and didnt need the 
policy. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and covered their mortgage 
payments for potentially longer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or if he lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs A in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs A. 
This means Mr and Mrs A arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by YBS
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against Yorkshire 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman