DRN-4063639
The complaint
Mrs O says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) is 
responsible for providing her with incorrect information about the value of her pensions. She 
says this means she will receive about a third less than shed been planning for in 
retirement.
What happened
Theres broad agreement about what happened in this case.
In summary, Mrs O took out two personal pensions in 1989 with a predecessor of Royal 
London. The plans featured Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) which promised an income 
paid at a specified rate of the final plan values. One of her plans received contributions for a 
period when shed been contracted-out of the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS). Her chosen retirement date was February 2023, when she reached 60.
Royal London sent Mrs O regular statements showing how her funds were performing and 
providing illustrations of what benefits might be payable based on certain assumptions. 
These were that:
- Her income would be an annuity which would increase annually with the retail price 
index (RPI).
- Her investments would grow by [X%] over an assumed rate of inflation of [Y%].
- In the event of her death, a spouses pension of 50% would be payable.
Ive seen an illustration produced on 1 June 2018 for her larger pension plan. This showed 
with the GAR she couldve expected an annuity of £5,280 per year at retirement. Similar 
projections were provided for her smaller plan, which was about a quarter of the value.
In July 2018, Royal London wrote to Mrs O explaining that, due to the pension scheme rules, 
she now had to decide whether to keep the GAR or give it up. This was called the GAR 
Exchange Scheme. It produced illustrations of the retirement income she couldve expected 
to receive with or without the GAR to help her choose. The illustrations included options for 
keeping the GAR or exchanging it for a one-off increase to her pension fund.
Ultimately Mrs O decided to retain her GAR. But in bringing her complaint she said her 
decision in 2018 had been based on information provided by Royal London which was 
fundamentally flawed, which she didnt discover until 2021.
After looking at Royal Londons online portal in February 2021, Mrs O was concerned to find 
that her projected pension annuity income had fallen dramatically since 2018 from £5,280 to 
£3,800. She wrote to Royal London on 6 February 2021 expressing concerns about what 
shed found. Her message wasnt dealt with properly. She chased a response on 1 July 
2021.
Royal London investigated Mrs Os concerns and responded to her on 26 August 2021. It 
confirmed the illustrations in its annual statements had been wrong. This had been the case 
prior to 2020. Instead of the projections being based on an annuity that increased with RPI, 
the figures were for level annuities. So, there was a mis-match between the numbers 
provided and the stated assumptions on which they were based.
Royal London also informed Mrs O the methodology used for its annual statements was 
different to that used to provide illustrations on its online portal. It acknowledged the potential 
for this cause confusion.
Finally, Royal London set out why it believed the information Mrs O had received in 2018 
about the GAR exchange scheme had been correct. It set out how in this instance the stated 
assumptions provided in the documents matched the figures in its calculations.
Royal London offered Mrs O £500 as a goodwill gesture in recognition of the errors with its 
annual statements prior to 2020.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied with Royal Londons response. On 13 September she challenged its 
conclusions and said her real concern was that she now found herself in the position shed 
receive tens of thousands of pounds less in retirement than shed been expecting.
Royal London responded to Mrs O on 12 November 2021. In summary it said:
Having looked again at your concerns I can understand that you may conclude that the 
GAR pension amounts quoted provide a reduced income for you. However, when looking at 
the Annual Statements, I have confirmed that pre-2020 the Statements commented on one 
type of annuity, but the figures quoted related to another type of annuity. This anomaly was 
rectified in 2020.
That said, it must always be remembered that any annuity values quoted by Royal London 
in any Annual Statements or pension option packs are only illustrations and are not 
guaranteed. I have explained that the annuity basis used for calculating values differs across 
the separate documents. Therefore, the values quoted do not necessarily align with the 
annuity amounts quoted in the plan terms and conditions.
The provision of pension annuity values for illustrative purposes is exactly that. The pension 
options pack states that if you wish to consider payment of a Lifetime Pension you should 
contact our offices for more information. The information within our documents is also issued 
to form the basis of a discussion as to what actual pension annuity option best meets a plan 
holders requirements. As my response outlines, a different GAR annuity basis will produce a 
different pension income outcome.
Mrs O wasnt content with Royal Londons response. She brought her complaint to this 
Service and suggested a variety of remedies, which essentially wouldve meant Royal 
London honouring the annuity values from her annual statements prior to 2020, based on 
the assumptions shed been informed about including annual RPI increases and spouses 
pension.
An Investigator considered Mrs Os case but didnt uphold it. He agreed Royal London had 
made a serious error, and over an extended period of time. He found the flawed information 
it had given Mrs O was used for her pension planning and that she couldnt have known it 
was wrong. And that it had a duty of care to provide customers with accurate and fair 
communications.
However, the Investigator also noted that a benefits illustration wasnt a guarantee. And 
ultimately she didnt have an entitlement to the inflated annuity figures which were based on 
an error made by Royal London. He also considered its offer of £500 to put things right was 
reasonable.Mrs O disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. She said:
from my perspective, I do not feel that £500 is fair compensation for the poor level of 
service I have received. There are some mistakes, such as, for example, an extra zero being 
added to a bank statement giving someone another hundred thousand pounds, which would 
be obvious to the customer. In my case, the complexity of pensions means this was never 
going to be possible. Please note that it's only because I checked online that this came out 
in the first place. I would also add that this mistake was compounded over decades.
Mrs O suggested that in light of Royal Londons ongoing error over many years, another 
remedy would be to refund her a percentage of the annual fees it had charged her.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Os complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in March 2023. Neither party 
has provided any new evidence or arguments, and as such I see no reason to depart from 
my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Os complaint, but not to the extent shed like. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Royal 
London for Mrs O. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Royal London. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Os complaint.
Firstly, its clear Royal London are responsible for a serious error. It is also unacceptable that 
it failed to communicate with Mrs O at the point of discovery of the problem with its annual 
statements, where there was a mis-match between the figures it was presenting and the statement of assumptions that were said to underpin these. Instead it appears Royal London 
left Mrs O to discover the discrepancy.
In bringing her complaint to this Service, Mrs O thought that because it had taken so long for 
Royal London to uncover its mistake it should compensate her by making good much of 
what she considered was the shortfall in her pension provision. She noted:
The mistake they made was over nearly the whole life of the pension. Given this error was 
only revealed at the point I start to receive my pension, Ive had no time to make alternative 
financial plans for my retirement.
I find elements of Mrs Os argument have merit, but I dont agree with the entirety of her 
position. I think most people pay more attention to their pension provision as they get closer 
to retirement. So I think its more likely than not she did factor in what she was being told by 
Royal London in its annual statements into her retirement planning for several years.
While its clear Royal Londons pension illustrations were just projections and not 
guaranteed, it seems to me reasonable for customers to able to view a pattern of these over 
several years as an indication of what might be achievable. And as a basis around which to 
do some broad planning. Of course, that is subject to the various necessary cautions and 
caveats provided in such documentation, such as uncertainly around market performance 
and notes about underpinning assumptions made.
The problem for Royal London is that it provided a mis-match between its illustration figures 
and the underpinning assumptions these were based on. Apparently it had been making this 
error for decades. So while I think Mrs O wouldve understood matters such as investment 
risk. I dont think she couldve known about its error, which had the effect of reducing the 
value of the annuity type she thought she would be able to secure by around a third of its 
value. This is significant, with the revelation coming at the end of her working life.
On the other hand, I dont think Royal London should be expected to honour the incorrect 
quotations it provided prior to 2020. Thats because the values shown on those statements 
werent something to which Mrs O was ever entitled.
Further, I have to consider what wouldve happened had Mrs O been provided with proper 
information by Royal London about her pension provision. Its not clear that she was taking 
financial advice. I dont know what income in retirement she was aiming for. Her provision 
seems to have been limited. I dont know what her overall household position was. Would 
she have been in a position to increase contributions to achieve the income she wanted? 
And of course, shes had the benefit of more disposable income in the absence of making 
any additional contributions. Mrs O hasnt responded on these matters.
While I understand Mrs Os argument for the reimbursement of a portion of the fees Royal 
London has charged her over the years for its service, Im not persuaded that provides an 
appropriate lens through which to view whats happened to her. It seems the significant 
element of the service it provided has been satisfactory. One small element of its 
communications has gone wrong, albeit over an extended period. Mrs O has suffered a 
substantial loss of expectation and I think that is where any remedy should focus.
In terms of handling Mrs Os complaint, I find that the explanations that Royal London 
provided to Mrs O in August and November 2021 about what had happened appropriately 
detailed. These were sufficient for her to understand what had gone wrong. I note however, 
that Mrs O had first raised her concerns in February 2021  so it clearly took too long for it to 
get to grips with her case.When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Os I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Royal Londons actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Royal London offered Mrs O £500 for the problem with its annual statements. I dont think 
this is sufficient. In particular I note the scale of the expectation loss caused by the incorrect 
pension statements it sent Mrs O for perhaps decades, something that has and will impact 
her retirement planning over a long period of time; the fact it failed to communicate with her 
about the problem as soon as it had been discovered; and the significant length of time it 
took to get to grips with her complaint.
Putting things right
I require The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to increase its award to Mrs O 
to £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused by the things it got wrong.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Os complaint for the reasons Ive set out. I now require The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman