DRN-2790583
The complaint
Mr N complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr N took out six loans with Mr Lender. Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
102/06/2016 07/06/2016 6 £250.00 £97.66
210/11/2017 07/12/2017 3 £250.00 £123.33
312/12/2017 22/12/2017 3 £200.00 £101.65
422/12/2017 27/12/2017 5 £400.00 £208.00
514/01/2018 15/01/2018 3 £200.00 £94.95
606/03/2018 10/03/2018 3 £450.00 £230.73
Mr N said that Mr Lender provided him with a number of loans in a short time frame without 
carrying out the correct checks. He told us that he was in persistent debt and that Mr Lender 
should have done more checks before lending.
When he complained to Mr Lender it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Mr Lender issued were affordable and responsibly lent based on the information Mr N 
provided at the time and the checks that were carried out. 
Mr N brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.  
Mr N disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ns 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender provided Mr N with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr N before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Mr Lender complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ns loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Mr Lender make a fair lending decision?
did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr Lender says that, as well as relying on information Mr N provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at details held by credit reference agencies before it 
agreed to lend to Mr N. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr N showed 
the loans shouldve been affordable for him.
Mr N feels strongly that proper checks shouldve made Mr Lender realise he couldnt afford 
further loans. 
Keeping in mind everything that Mr N and Mr Lender have said, I've looked at each loan in 
turn. 
loan 1
I can see Mr Lender asked for certain information from Mr N before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of his monthly income and expenditure, including his existing credit 
commitments and any short term loans. It says it validated his employment and salary by 
looking at his payslip. It also reviewed his credit file. These checks led Mr Lender to conclude Mr N had a monthly disposable income of £350 so the monthly repayments of 
£97.66 were affordable for him.
At this early stage, Mr N didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the 
information Mr N provided or the information Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender 
shouldve enquired further into Mr Ns financial circumstances. So I dont uphold Mr Ns 
complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Like the adjudicator, I think its fair to treat loan 1 as an isolated instance of borrowing. The 
loan had been outstanding for less than a week and the gap in lending between loan 1 and 
loan 2 was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr N hadnt been dependent 
on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant that when Mr N applied for loan 
2 in November 2017, he was effectively starting over. So I think it was fair for Mr Lender to 
treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests accordingly. 
As before, Mr Lender gathered information about Mr Ns income and outgoings and did a 
credit check. I think those checks were proportionate having regard to the fact this was 
Mr Ns first loan in this chain of borrowing, bearing in mind the loan amount and the fact that 
he was planning to repay it in three monthly instalments  which was a reasonably 
foreseeable period. 
The loan looked like it should be comfortably affordable for Mr N on the figures hed 
declared. And I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr Lender had 
recorded for Mr N, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve caused 
Mr Lender to think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr N when he took it out. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ns complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr N paid loan 2 early and when he took out loan 3 he borrowed a slightly smaller amount 
compared to his previous 2 loans. 
I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr N had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay 
for loans 1 and 2. The figures hed declared, and the information Mr Lender had collected, 
seem to support Mr Lenders lending decision  there wasnt anything to indicate that the 
loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for him or that it was unfair to lend it to him. All the 
indications were that hed be well able to manage the loan repayments  which were less 
than the loan hed just repaid without any apparent signs of financial difficulty. 
So Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint about loan 3.
loan 4
At the same time as he paid loan 3, just 10 days or so after taking it out, Mr N applied for 
loan 4 and he was now asking for a loan twice the size. I think this was potentially an early 
warning sign that Mr N might be having problems managing his money  but there was 
nothing in his payment record to date to alert Mr Lender to any serious problems. 
And Im mindful that this was Christmas week when very often short term spending 
increases. Mr N had a good payment history and Mr Lender recorded that hed said he 
wasnt spending anything on other credit at the time. So I dont think the increase in the loan 
amount was enough on its own to have concerned a responsible lender  and the loan still looked sustainably affordable on the figures Mr Lender had recorded for Mr N and taking into 
account the information it saw on its credit checks. Overall, I dont feel Ive seen enough to 
be able to uphold Mr Ns complaint about loan 4.
loan 5
In the event, Mr N repaid loan 4 within just 5 days or so and he didnt apply for loan 5 until a 
couple of weeks later  when he asked to borrow half the amount of his previous loan. His 
financial situation generally was broadly unchanged and the credit checks Mr Lender carried 
out didnt suggest anything of concern. Hed paid all of his previous loans early and shown 
no sign that making the loan repayments had been a problem for him. I think Mr Lender was 
reasonably entitled to take the view that it had carried out proportionate checks and there 
was nothing seen to suggest that this loan wasnt affordable for Mr N or that it would be 
unfair to lend to him. 
loan 6 
Mr N repaid loan 5 the very next day after taking it out (arguably suggesting that he didnt 
after all require the credit). And there had been a whole clear month after when he hadnt 
been paying a Mr Lender loan. The information that Mr Lender had gathered, including what 
it saw on its credit checks, indicated that the loan should be affordable. 
But this was the fifth loan hed applied for, with no significant gaps in-between loans and his 
largest loan so far. So I think Mr Lender should have done more and gone further in its 
affordability assessment before providing this loan. 
Our adjudicator invited Mr N to send us more information to help me understand his financial 
situation at the time but we havent received anything. So, based on the information I have in 
this case, I cant fairly and reasonably say that further checks wouldve made Mr Lender 
realise that Mr N was going to find it difficult to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
By the time Mr N was asking for this loan I would expect Mr Lender also to be starting to 
think carefully about whether there was any clear indication that Mr N was now trapped in a 
cycle of repeat borrowing. 
But I dont think that Mr Ns pattern of lending was sufficiently established by loan 6 to 
indicate to Mr Lender that he probably wasnt using short-term high cost borrowing for its 
intended purpose of helping manage short-term cash flow problems. 
And in the event, this was Mr Ns last Mr Lender loan  which he also paid early just a few 
days or so after taking it out. 
So, on balance, I dont feel Ive seen enough to make me think that Mr Lender acted unfairly 
when it provided loan 6 to Mr N.
Mr N also complained that the high interest rate he paid for these loans made him roll over 
loans and take out new loans. Ive thought about what Mr N has said about the high cost of 
the loans. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on these loans and I can appreciate that 
he might now feel this was unfair. 
But the loan documents he signed set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. 
Mr N had to actively engage in the loan application process so I think he wouldve been able 
to see what he was going to have to pay  the loan agreement shows the capital repayment 
and the interest charge each month. Mr Lender said Mr N had paid £106.87 in interest 
across all six loans. Taking everything into account, I think Mr N was aware he was taking expensive borrowing 
on terms he seemed happy to agree at the time. I dont think Mr Lender had any reason to 
think that Mr N wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans and it went ahead only 
when it had explained the main loan costs and Mr N said he wanted to proceed. So I cant 
fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr N found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ns 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Mr Lender obtained.
But even if Mr Lender had gathered all the information it shouldve done before agreeing to 
lend and taken steps to verify that information where it ought to have done, I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it wouldve seen information that wouldve made Mr Lender 
realise that Mr N was going to find it difficult to repay loans in a sustainable way or that it 
was unfair to continue lending to him. 
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain why Ive reached these 
conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman