DRN-2935982
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the actions of Aedis Warranties Ltd (trading as homeproof) (AWL) in 
the handling of his insurance premium.
What happened
In 2017 Mr W took out a self-build building warranty with AWL. The policy was underwritten 
by the insurer, who Ill refer to as E. Mr W paid around £4,300 for the warranty, including a 
£1,000 fee paid to AWL who would carry out inspections during the build, as this was a 
condition of the warranty.
In 2019, Mr W contacted AWL; he was concerned about the security of his warranty 
premium and site inspection fee, as a company he was using for building control had gone 
into liquidation. AWL reassured Mr W that his premium was held in a secure account and 
would be protected. 
In 2020, AWL contacted Mr W to let him know the insurer, E, had gone into administration. In 
this letter were details from Es administrators of how Mr W could claim his premium back. 
When Mr W contacted AWL, it explained it had given him incorrect advice previously, and 
that his full premium was sent to the insurer shortly after the policy was taken out, and hadnt 
been protected. 
Mr W complained to AWL about how it had handled matters. He said hes paid £1,000 for 
AWL to carry out inspections on his property  and only four of the five inspections had been 
carried out, so it should refund the £1,000 to him. But he also felt AWLs actions had resulted 
in him being without a warranty, and it should have taken action to insure his property 
elsewhere, so he felt AWL should also refund this premium. 
He also complained about the communication from AWL; it had taken it around six months to 
inform him of the problems with his insurer after the administrators were appointed. 
AWL apologised for incorrectly informing Mr W his money was held safely. It said the 
premium had been paid to E, shortly after he bought the policy, so it wasnt being held 
separately. It also apologised for the time taken to notify him of Es administration. It said an 
office move had led to issues with its post and it had missed the communication from Es 
administrators, and it took some time for this to be rectified. 
As it had carried out four of the five inspections, it didnt agree to refund Mr W the £1,000 
hed paid for these, but it did offer £200 for not completing the final inspection. 
Mr W didnt accept that, so he brought the complaint to our service.
After it came to our service, AWL offered a further £400 compensation for the distress 
caused by giving incorrect information about his premium in 2019. Our investigator thought 
AWLs offer was fair. Whilst he agreed it was poor of AWL to give wrong information, he 
couldnt see that Mr W had lost out as a result, as his premium would have always gone to 
the insurer who was now in administration. He said as AWL had provided Mr W with the four 
reports it had carried out, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund the £1,000 to him. He thought 
offering to refund a fifth of the cost (£200), was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt accept that, he said AWL hadnt given him enough information for him to be able 
to start a claim through Es administrators. He also said he didnt trust what AWL had told 
this service about when it was notified about the insurers issues, and the reasons AWL had 
given for taking so long to contact him. He said he would accept an offer of £1,400 from 
AWL to resolve his complaint.
As Mr W didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W has been left in a difficult position owing to the situation with his insurer, 
E. But in this complaint I can only look at the actions of AWL, having done so, Im satisfied 
its made a fair offer to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W has made two arguments about his warranty premium; that it should have been held 
by AWL, and that it gave him incorrect information about what had happened to his premium 
in 2019. From everything Ive seen I dont think AWL acted incorrectly in sending the 
premium for the warranty to E when the policy was set up. That part of the cost was for the 
policy premiums and therefore would have always been paid to E. So I cant say it did 
anything wrong in passing the money to it, and Im satisfied it did so shortly after the policy 
was taken out. 
AWL accept it gave Mr W some misleading information about his policy premium at a later 
date. AWL should have advised Mr W that his premium for this warranty sat with the insurer, 
E. My role is to put Mr W back in the position hed had been in, had AWL not made a 
mistake in the information it gave.
Having considered everything, I cant see it would have made a difference to the overall 
outcome for Mr W. I consider hed have always had to go through Es administrator to 
recover his premium once E went into administration. So whilst I think AWL has acted 
reasonably in offering some compensation for the distress caused by giving wrong 
information, Im not satisfied this means it should repay the full premium Mr W paid for his 
warranty. 
As part of the warranty, Mr W paid £1,000 for five inspections to be carried out by AWL 
during the build so that the warranty would be activated when the build was complete. He 
says as those reports are now of no use to him, the fee is unjustified and so the full £1,000 
should be refunded. Mr Ws policy says the inspections are carried out for the benefit of the 
insurer, rather than Mr W. I accept Mr Ws point that having copies of those inspection 
reports may not have been helpful in securing another warranty. But I dont consider AWL 
has acted unfairly in not refunding the full amount. Mr W paid AWL to carry out the 
necessary surveys in order for the warranty to be activated, and I think its more likely than 
not that had E not gone into administration, AWL would have completed the final inspection. 
It appears the only reason it didnt is because E collapsed. I cant hold AWL responsible 
because Es situation means it could no longer provide the inspection for the warranty. 
AWL has offered a proportionate refund of £200, Im not going to ask it to compensate Mr W 
further for this. AWL has offered £400 for some misleading information about where his premium was held. 
Mr W has also raised other service issues. He says AWL should have contacted him about 
Es administration much sooner than mid-2020. He said the reason given by AWL  that an 
office move had led to post delays  isnt acceptable given the industry press were reporting 
on the events at the end of 2019. Hes also said when it did write to him, it didnt give enough 
information to enable him to make a claim with Es administrators. 
AWL has said it tried to contact E and its administrators between the end of 2019 and mid-
2020, but it didnt receive a response, so it couldnt have notified him any sooner. From what 
Ive seen AWL didnt receive the communication until just before it wrote to Mr W. However, 
even if I were to accept AWL did delay communicating with Mr W, I cant see this has 
caused him to lose out on anything. Hed have always needed to find another warranty 
provider, and Ive seen no evidence that any delay has impacted his ability to claim through 
Es administrator. Having reviewed the letter AWL sent, Im satisfied it provided relevant 
information from Es administrator to Mr W, as well as where he could go for further updates. 
So I dont think it needed to provide anything further to Mr W. 
Overall, having reviewed the service provided by AWL Im not going to ask it to increase its 
offer of £600. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aedis Warranties Ltd (trading as homeproof) should pay Mr W £600 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman