DRN-3261500
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly turned 
down its business interruption claim after being forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
J held a policy with Ageas that included business interruption cover. It claimed on the policy 
due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ageas said that the policy covered business interruption as a result of an occurrence of a 
human infectious or contagious disease at the premises. But Ageas thought that Js 
business had been impacted by the Governments imposed restrictions rather than because 
someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned down its claim. 
J asked Ageas to reconsider its position in the light of the Supreme Court judgement 
following the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case. 
Ageas did so but said that Js claim was not affected by the outcome of the FCA case. 
J was unhappy with Ageass response and brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would cover business interruption due to Covid-19 only if there had been a case at Js 
premises and he didnt think J had indicated that anyone on the premises had Covid-19. The 
investigator considered the Supreme Court judgement but thought Ageas had fairly declined 
the claim in the absence of any evidence that Covid-19 was present at the premises. 
J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said its premises were in a multi-
occupier office and were not restricted just to its own staff and visitors. With the lack of 
effective testing it was impossible to determine if any of the staff or visitors had been infected 
with the disease. The government insisted on the immediate closure of all businesses due to 
the spread of the disease. J is sure that many staff in the building went home with 
symptoms, but this information could not be shared for confidentiality reasons.
J said that it was clear that Covid-19 could have existed at its premises and Ageas is 
avoiding liability for which the policy had been designed. J would not have taken the policy 
had it not been assured it covered all aspects of business interruption. It understands that 
the courts have looked at the fairness of terms in policies which dont differ from Js policy. 
We should take the same common sense approach as the courts. 
Our investigator also looked at the denial of access section of the policy, which provided 
cover where there had been damage to the insured property. He explained that Ageas had 
not acted unreasonably in saying J was not covered under this part of the policy, because 
Covid-19 did not fall within the policy definition of damage.
J did not agree with the investigators findings. J said that the Government made a global 
decision to refuse access to the premises. Covid-19 was itself damage to the environment. 
Damage does not have to be physical or be seen to prevent access; for example, a gas 
escape.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Js business. However, I am not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why and 
in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Js claim. 
Denial of Access extension 
This extension within the policy says Ageas will cover:
loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence 
of Damage from Cover Causes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 to Property in the vicinity of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insureds 
Premises, whether or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property of 
the Insured. 
The policy defines Damage as Accidental loss, destruction or damage. The cover causes 
referred to are 1) fire, 2) perils (such as a riot or earthquake), 3) accidental damage, 4) theft 
or attempted theft and 5) subsidence, ground heave or landslip. 
So for this extension to provide cover, Js losses would need to be as a result of business 
interruption or interference due to damage, as defined in the policy, to property in the vicinity 
of Js premises, which prevented or hindered the use of or access to Js premises. 
Ive noted Js comments that Covid-19 is damage to the environment and that damage 
doesnt have to be physical to prevent access. But I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to property in Js vicinity.
J has referred to the Governments decision to refuse access to the premises. But in order 
for J to be covered by the denial of access extension, J needs to show that damage to 
property in Js vicinity prevented or hindered the use of or access to Js premises. 
I dont think there is evidence that there was damage to property in Js vicinity as defined in 
the policy by one of the listed cover causes. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas 
to say this term doesnt cover Js claim.
Notifiable Diseases Extension 
This extension within the policy says Ageas will cover business interruption loss as a result 
of: 
i any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premisesii any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below)
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as:  illness sustained by any person caused by any 
person resulting from:
i) food or drink poisoning
ii) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a 
case of notifiable disease occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as 
defined in the policy, so Ive then considered the evidence to decide if I think its more likely 
than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at Js premises. 
As J has said, widespread testing wasnt available at the start of the pandemic. The 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my 
view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
J doesnt suggest that there had been a case of Covid-19 at its premises. Rather, it said that 
the business was forced to close as required by the Government, but that it was quite 
possible that staff and/or visitors to the building had symptoms of Covid-19 at that time.
I can see the point that J is making, but I dont think thats enough for me to fairly conclude it 
was more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. So, I dont think 
the extension provides cover in the circumstances of its claim and Ageas was fairly entitled 
to turn down the claim. 
J has said that the courts have made judgements on similar policies which dont differ from 
Js policy and the courts have looked at the fairness of the contract terms. J hasnt been 
specific but in reviewing this complaint I have had regard to the FCA test case. Some of the 
clauses examined in the test case were similar to the clause in Js policy. But the sample 
clause that I believe J is referring to in the test case required the disease to occur at the 
premises or within a 25 mile radius, whereas Js policy required the disease to occur at the 
premises. In Js case Im not persuaded that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises, so I think Ageas was correct to conclude that Js claim was not affected by the test 
case.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay its claim.
J has said that it wouldnt have taken the policy if it had not been assured that the policy 
covered all aspects of business interruption. In this complaint I have decided only whether 
Ageas fairly turned down the claim. If J considers the policy was mis-sold then it would have 
to raise a complaint with the financial business which sold the policy to J. Our investigator 
can give J information about how to do this if required. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman