DRN-2843664
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). 
Hes said that when the base rate increased those increases were passed on straight away, 
but when the base rate fell Coventry chose not to pass those reductions on so his interest 
rate is now higher when the base rate is lower.
What happened
Mr B applied for this mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage offer was 
issued in July 2017 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said Mr B was 
borrowing £120,000 over 20 years on a repayment basis. 
The product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable 
rate, currently 1.39%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set 
independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end 
of the mortgage term. The mortgage completed later that same month.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr B to tell him the interest rate, and therefore the 
monthly payments, on his mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the terms and 
conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable mortgage 
rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and the costs 
involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage is 
increasing to 1.64%.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording, this time the interest 
rate was increasing to 1.89%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr B complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that Coventry 
hadnt reduced his interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for Term product 
the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it needed to consider the interests of its 
membership as a whole, and it felt Mr Bs mortgage continued to offer good long-term value. 
It reminded Mr B that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so he could move to a 
different product  or lender  if he wanted to.
As Mr B didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint form he said 
in practice Coventry had always followed the base rate, and he hasnt been treated fairly as 
his rate has increased by 0.5%, whereas the base rate has reduced by 0.4%. He said he 
would like a commitment that the product is fair to customers as his experience is that it only 
goes up and doesnt come down.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr B aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers with Coventry to Mr B either taking a new product 
with Coventry or moving his mortgage to a new lender if he felt the interest rate was 
no longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 1.89% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Coventry explained in the mortgage offer that the product wasnt linked to base rate, 
and it varied  or didnt vary  the interest rate fairly and the original product fee Mr B 
had to pay doesnt change that.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
The interest rate moved twice exactly in line with base rate, so he wants to know 
what the considerations were when Coventry moved the rate up, but didnt move it 
down.
The intention of the Bank of England when reducing the base rate was to benefit 
consumers like him, who had flexible mortgages. How is it fair that saving wasnt 
passed onto him?
It isnt relevant if the product is a good rate, when he took it out it was 1.14% above 
base rate and it is now 1.79% above base rate. He feels Coventry are profiteering 
from him.
He considers himself trapped in the product as he wanted longevity. He also paid a 
fee at the start which needs to be taken into account.
After some correspondence back and forth between him and our investigator, Mr B asked 
that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked 
and answered.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr B. Its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are 
based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr B entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time. I cant 
consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party acting on 
behalf of Mr B.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFN10 Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.39%, which is managed by Coventry 
Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.39%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr B has said that since he took out the product the interest rate had increased in line with 
base rate changes and hadnt gone down. But that hasnt always been the case. Whilst 
Coventry had changed the products rate by the same differential the five previous times the 
base rate had changed (three down and then two up), the three base rate changes before 
that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential change across the board.
I understand Mr B believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate 
is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr B that his interest rate would always 
change in line with the base rate, and his mortgage offer clearly explains the interest rate is 
set independently of the base rate.Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. For that 
reason there are no grounds for me to order Coventry to refund the product fee as hes 
received  and is still receiving - the product that he paid that fee for, which is a managed 
variable rate (not a base rate tracker). If Mr B feels the advice to take the product wasnt 
suitable for him thats something he can raise with his mortgage broker that gave him the 
advice to take it out, if he wants to do so.
Although Im satisfied Mr B wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I 
still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue K booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
5.1 We may change the Interest Rate for any of the following reasons (which may relate 
to circumstances existing at the time or those which we reasonably expect to apply in 
the near future):
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate (or, if that rate has 
ceased to exist, the equivalent lending rate set by the Bank of England or by any 
central bank that has replaced it);
5.1.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
5.1.3 to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
5.1.4 to respond to new or amended statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection; or
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.5; that is, an increase in 
the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage lending. 
But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate changes, it 
doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Mr B said I cannot see any facts that illustrate how my flexible mortgage was increased on 2 
separate occasions with the move in BR but not when it went down. You have quoted the 
terms from Coventry that say the rate is independent of the BR but yet it has moved twice 
exactly in line with the BR and at the same time  it just did not move down. So what were 
the considerations/factors when Coventry moved the rate up twice did not exist when it went 
down?
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage points. But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as 
the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr Bs mortgage in 
isolation. 
The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its mortgage 
function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage 
payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way of working, 
and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Im satisfied Coventry has shown 
that the events of 2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that 
Coventry has shown that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell. The 
information showing that has been provided to us in confidence as it is commercially 
sensitive, so were unable to disclose it to Mr B.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr B (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard variable 
rate, compared to the 1.89% Mr B was paying). That seems a fair decision for Coventry to 
have made. 
It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Coventry 
had reduced the interest rate for the product by the same amount of percentage points.
The product Mr B has allows him the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with 
Coventry at any time if he no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for money. Im 
satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr Bs mortgage if he had wanted 
to switch to them and that there would have been no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay 
or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
He could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if he felt the interest 
rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr B doesnt have to 
move to a new product with Coventry, or to a new lender, if he doesnt want to. But if he 
doesnt apply for another product then Mr B will remain on the 1.89% Flexx interest rate  
which Coventry may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future. 
Mr B has said hes unable to switch the rate due to his personal circumstances. Whilst he 
may be unable to remortgage to another lender due to those circumstances, I see no reason 
why he cant switch to a different product with Coventry if he wanted to do so. In any event, I 
can only consider this complaint in respect of Coventry and the product and having done so 
there are no barriers due to Coventry and/or this product that would prevent Mr B from taking 
a new rate either with Coventry or elsewhere. 
Mr B has also said that the £999 fee for the product should be taken into account as if were 
looking at exit costs we should also look at entry costs. He believes if that fee is factored in 
then the overall costs would make it unfavourable in the market. But I dont agree that makes 
the product unfavourable. Mr B has a product that had an interest rate of 1.39%, then 1.64% 
and then has been at 1.89% since September 2018. For that he was charged a £999 
product fee, with Coventry covering the cost of the valuation of Mr Bs property and the legal 
costs involved in remortgaging. For a product with the level of flexibility this has, even paying 
a £999 product fee, that is competitive in the market. From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 1.89% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, if Mr B doesnt agree he has the option to remortgage to another lender (if his 
personal circumstances allow) and the only cost currently of ending this Coventry mortgage 
is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as set out in his mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt 
be charged if he chooses to simply change to a new product with Coventry instead. 
I understand the process to take out a new product is fairly straightforward and makes it 
easy for existing customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied 
there were no practical or contractual barriers with Coventry preventing Mr B from coming 
out of this mortgage product if he wanted to look for another interest rate either with 
Coventry or elsewhere.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Bs frustration that his mortgage interest rate wasnt reduced Im 
satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but 
then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020. Mr B has the 
product with Coventry that he applied for. That is, a managed variable rate (not a base rate 
tracker) for which the product fee was £999, so there are no grounds for me to order 
Coventry to refund that fee, or to vary his rate.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr B may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman