DRN-3819353
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In December 2019, Mr Js Santander account received a transfer of £2,354.97 from a third 
party. A cheque for £8,000.00 was also paid into Mr Js account too. Shortly afterwards, 
Santander received a notification from the bank which sent the payment stating that the 
payer of the funds from the transfer had reported being a victim of fraud. The cheque was 
also reported as being fraudulent too. 
As a result of this, Santander reviewed Mr Js account, decided to close it and also record a 
fraud prevention marker against Mr J. Upon subsequently learning of the fraud marker, Mr J 
complained. Santander looked at Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr J remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr J is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Js account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr J was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. 
This could include Mr J allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Js complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Js account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr J has told us that his school mentor asked him to provide his bank details as he could 
help him make some money. Mr J said that he later got a notification, on his online banking, 
of an attempt to pay a cheque into his account. He says he contacted Santander 
immediately to let it know that he didnt know the person who the cheque was from. Mr J 
also says that he subsequently reported his mentor to his school. 
Ive thought about what Mr J has said. But Im afraid Mr Js version of events not being 
supported by the available evidence makes it difficult to place much weight on what he is 
saying. Mr J says that he contacted Santander about this matter. However, Santander has 
provided a recording of a call it had with Mr J at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr J says that he didnt speak to anyone from Santander. But the call from 
Santander was made to his phone number and the voice of the person on the recording is 
very similar to Mr Js. Given this is the case, notwithstanding his assertions on this matter, 
Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that it was Mr J who Santander spoke to.
During this call Mr J confirmed that the £2,354.97 transferred into his account was from his 
aunty. And shed transferred the money to him so that he could go on holiday. Furthermore, 
while Mr J did say that he didnt attempt to pay the cheque into his account, he said one of 
his school friends must have attempted to do this as a joke. At this stage there was no 
mention of a school mentor.
When told by the representative that the person paying the cheque into his account used his 
card and personal identification number (PIN), Mr J said that a friend had taken his card for 
three days. Nonetheless, this still wouldnt explain how someone else would have had Mr Js 
PIN in order to have paid in the cheque into Mr Js account. So its difficult for me to accept 
that this deposit was attempted without Mr Js knowledge or cooperation.
I realise that Mr J has more recently reported his mentors conduct to his school. He says 
this in itself should be seen as evidence of him not having been involved in the fraudulent 
activity. I accept that its likely someone else  possibly Mr Js mentor as he says  arranged 
for the activity in question to take place. However, Im not considering who came up with the 
idea of paying in fraudulent funds into Mr Js account, or even whether Mr J instigated this 
course of action. 
What Im considering here is whether the activity on Mr Js account took place with his 
knowledge and consent and whether he knew some kind of illegitimate activity was taking 
place. And having considered matters, Im afraid that the sheer number of inconsistencies 
here, means that I cant reasonably say that Mr J wasnt complicit in the fraudulent activity 
which took place on his account. In my view, the available evidence demonstrates that its 
more likely than not that Mr J took steps to at least gain access to funds he knew he wasnt 
entitled to, in the form of fraudulent funds that had been paid into his account.So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Js account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr J was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr J  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr J 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman