DRN-3247176
The complaint
Mr N has complained after American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt agree 
to extend the deadline to use a voucher for a third-party retailer. 
What happened
Mr N has a credit card account with Amex. As part of the agreement, he receives cashback 
in the form of vouchers for a third-party retailer. 
Amex say they wrote to Mr N at the end of 2019 to let him know that the terms on his 
account were changing and that the agreement with the retailer was ending. His last voucher 
was for approximately £100 and was issued in January 2020 and it expired in September 
2020. 
In October 2020, Mr N complained to Amex. He was unhappy that his voucher had expired 
and felt that the deadline should have been extended in light of the ongoing Covid-19 
pandemic. He said this had significantly restricted his opportunity to use the voucher and felt 
he should be given longer. 
Amex responded and offered Mr N £50 as a gesture of goodwill. However, they said that the 
voucher had already expired and thered been enough opportunity to use it. So, they refused 
to extend it. 
Mr N rejected the offer. He said that it was unwise to travel to the retailer at this point in the 
pandemic and he didnt think it was fair that the voucher deadline wasnt extended. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Amex had done anything wrong. She said that she 
thought Mr N had enough opportunity to use the voucher despite the ongoing pandemic and 
had been given sufficient notice of its expiry. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
I empathise with Mr Ns position that due to the ongoing pandemic, he didnt feel able to visit 
the retailer and use this voucher. However, the voucher was valid from January 2020, over a 
month before the start of the pandemic. 
The voucher also didnt expire until September 2020, almost six months after the start of the 
pandemic. Whilst Mr N might not have wanted to visit a retailer such as this for some of that 
time, I do think there was ample opportunity to use the voucher, with restrictions to help keep 
customers safe, in place. 
Further to this, it does appear that you can shop with the retailer online. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr N couldnt have used his voucher this way. 
Mr N has also complained that Amex didnt let him know that the voucher wouldnt be 
extended beyond the expiry date. However, I am not sure why they would have done that 
and wouldnt have expected them to. The voucher was valid for nine months and prior 
vouchers had been for six months. I havent seen anything to suggest that prior vouchers 
were extended. The date of expiry was clear and so I dont agree that Amex should have 
been making customers such as Mr N aware that they wouldnt be extending the voucher. 
Amex has said that if Mr N had contacted him prior to expiry they may have been able to 
offer an alternative solution. However, he got in touch once the voucher had expired and 
their agreement with the third-party retailer had ended. They say they werent able to extend 
the vouchers themselves but did offer a goodwill gesture of £50. 
Ultimately, I dont think Amex have done anything wrong in not extending the voucher or 
offering compensation for the full voucher amount as Mr N wants. There was ample 
opportunity to use the voucher over a nine-month period and I believe it could have been 
used online too. If Mr N wishes to accept the goodwill gesture from Amex, he should contact 
them directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman