DRN-3249237
The complaint
Miss R complains that Santander UK Plc did not do enough to help her find out what 
happened to her money after she deposited it with a cryptocurrency exchange. 
What happened
Miss R was looking to make extra income and had heard that cryptocurrency was the best 
thing to invest in. She opened an account with a cryptocurrency exchange to buy Bitcoin. 
She followed a link she was sent which explained how to log in and get set up. 
Initially she started with small amounts. On 17 May 2021 she made three transfers totalling 
£10 from her Santander account to her e-wallet. The next day, Miss R transferred £1,000 
from her Santander account to her e-wallet. Miss R says the money disappeared from her 
cryptocurrency account without her knowledge or permission. 
Miss R explains that she was blocked from using the cryptocurrency exchange and does not 
know why. The cryptocurrency exchange told her she could withdraw the remaining balance 
of her account, which was just under £3. Miss R wants to know what happened to all of the 
money shed sent.  
On 5 June 2021, Miss R contacted Santander for help. The bank contacted the 
cryptocurrency exchange. It confirmed that Miss Rs cryptocurrency account had been 
blocked and said that 0.89p was available to be returned.  
On 8 June 2021 Santander declined Miss Rs claim and said there was nothing more it could 
do to help her with the loss. It said the situation wasnt covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code because shed sent the funds to her own e-wallet. 
Miss R referred her complaint to this service after receiving advice from Action Fraud. She 
explained that she was not expecting a refund from Santander but wanted the banks help to 
find out what had happened to her money. Our Investigator looked into the situation but 
concluded there was nothing further Santander could do to try and help Miss R. She 
highlighted Santander had investigated the matter as a potential fraud and that the bank had 
contacted the cryptocurrency exchange. She noted that Miss Rs loss happened when the 
money was moved from her e-wallet to another destination. She didnt think Santander 
should have been suspicious of the payment given Miss R had made payments for similar 
amounts in the past. She explained that this service is unable to investigate a complaint 
specifically about the actions of the cryptocurrency exchange because it is not a regulated 
firm. 
Miss R wanted to take the matter further. She felt let down by Santander. She pointed out 
shed worked hard to earn the money thats been lost and expected more support to try and 
get it back. She wanted Santander to give her information about where her money had gone 
so that she could pursue it further. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Miss R feels so strongly about this complaint. Shes lost money and it 
is understandable why she wants to do all that she can to try and work out what happened to 
it. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Miss R has been clear that she is not looking for Santander to refund the loss. Nonetheless, 
for completeness I have considered whether Santander could or should have done more to 
stop Miss R from making the payments she did. But having done so, I am unable to fairly or 
reasonably ask Santander to take responsibility to refund the money Miss R has lost. 
I dont think the bank could have done any more to prevent the scam from taking place or 
intervened so that Miss R would have realised what was happening and stopped sending 
money. I dont think the payments Miss R was making as part of the scam would have stood 
out enough to the bank to be considered unusual or out of character. The payments appear 
unremarkable in amongst Miss Rs day to day spending and I dont think the bank missed a 
clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. I dont consider its reasonable to expect 
Santander to ask questions about payments that arent unusual or out of character.
Ive also thought about whether Santander ought to have refunded the loss for any other 
reason, and in particular, whether Santander ought to have reimbursed Miss R under the 
provisions of the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, 
which Santander has signed up to and was in force at the time Miss R made the payments. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only 
covers scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a 
consumers own account. In this case, Miss R sent the money to her own account held with 
a cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Santander is responsible for 
reimbursing Miss R because of any obligation under the CRM Code.  
Ive also considered whether Santanders actions after Miss R discovered that shed lost 
money go far enough. Miss R says that Santander did not do enough and considers that it 
has a responsibility to tell her what happened to her money. I recognise that Miss R is left in 
a very difficult position. Santander was her best hope to try and find out answers because 
the cryptocurrency exchange did not help her.
Whilst I understand Miss Rs sentiments that Santander should be accountable to her in 
some way, from the evidence Ive seen the loss Miss R is complaining about ultimately 
stems from her being a customer of the cryptocurrency exchange. 
Miss R has provided this service with an email that was sent to her by the cryptocurrency 
exchange on 18 May 2021. The email confirms that the Bitcoin purchased was sent from 
Miss Rs account with the cryptocurrency exchange to a blockchain address. Santander isnt 
able to obtain any more information about that. From what I have seen, Santander did all it 
could to assist Miss R. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Santander has acted 
incorrectly or that it ought to have done more than it did to help.Overall  
Having carefully considered everything, there is not enough here for me to think Santander 
should have suspected Miss R might be the victim of a potential scam at the time she made 
the payments from her Santander account. As the funds went to Miss Rs own account with 
the cryptocurrency exchange and then on from there, there was little opportunity for 
Santander to recover those funds or find out more specific details about where they are now. 
I cant fairly say Santander could have foreseen the money Miss R was sending from her 
Santander account was at risk of being lost to fraud.
I am unable to look into a complaint about whether the cryptocurrency exchange should bear 
any responsibility for what happened. As our Investigator explained, the cryptocurrency 
exchange is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss R. But it brings to an end what we 
can do in this situation. For the reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly or reasonably require 
Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman