DRN-4119646
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) started charging her 
a monthly fee for a Select Platinum account. 
Mrs H is unhappy with this because shed previously been able to have the account without 
paying the monthly account fee that usually applies, due to having a staff discount. Mrs H 
says that she was not informed that the monthly fee would start to be applied to her account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
NatWest has explained that many of its retired employees were able to retain a packaged 
account with NatWest  in some cases without paying any fee and in some cases paying a 
reduced fee. NatWest says that to ensure that all staff and retired staff are treated equally 
and fairly, it decided to allow all staff and retired staff members to have packaged accounts 
(with a few exceptions) for 50% of the usual cost of the account. 
I understand that Mrs H had been, until the change had been made, able to have the Select 
Platinum account without paying any monthly account fee.
Mrs H says that she was not given any notice that NatWest would start charging her a 
monthly account fee for her Select Platinum account. Whereas NatWest says that it sent a 
notice of variation letter in March 2022, explaining that Mrs H would be charged 50% of the 
standard monthly fee from May 2022.
NatWest has provided our service with evidence to show that Mrs H was included in the 
mailing that was sent out in March 2022. And it seems that NatWest had the correct address 
recorded for Mrs H at the time, so I dont think its the case it was sent to the wrong address. 
Therefore, based on the evidence I have seen, Im satisfied that the letter informing Mrs H of 
the changes that would be taking place on her account was sent to her. I appreciate that its 
possible that the letter mayve got lost in the post, but I cant reasonably hold NatWest 
responsible if this did happen.
Having looked at the letter in question, I think it made it quite clear that Mrs H would be 
charged 50% of the full monthly account fee from 19 May 2022, and it gave the reasons why 
the changes were being made. The letter also explained what options were available to Mrs 
H going forwards and included information about the changes within an FAQ document.
Finally, I note that Mrs H questions why NatWest did not also send her an electronic 
message as well. However, whilst that mightve been helpful in this particular case, NatWest 
was not obliged to do so. And I think that sending a letter to all affected customers is a 
reasonable method to inform account holders about the changes that were due to take 
place. 
As such, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that NatWest did what it was required 
to do to inform Mrs H about the changes that were taking place on her account. Because of 
this, I cant reasonably ask NatWest to refund the discounted packaged account fees that 
have been applied to Mrs Hs account since May 2022.
I appreciate that Mrs H will be disappointed by this, but I hope I have been able to explain 
the reasons why I cant find in her favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman