DRN-3104976
The complaint
Miss D says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss D took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of her borrowing follows.
She says she was unable to afford the loans and ELL cant have carried out proper checks.
Our adjudicator concluded ELL should not have given Miss D either loan as it had
information to suggest it was unlikely the loans would be sustainably affordable for Miss D.
ELL disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision) as I made some different 
findings to the adjudicator - but I reached the same conclusion. I asked both parties to send 
in any comments or new evidence by 13 October 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Miss D to understand her disposable income
before it approved the loans. It asked for her monthly income: for loan 1 it checked this using
an income verification tool and for loan 2 it checked this on Miss Ds recent bank statements.
For loan 1 ELL used a percentage of income to calculate Miss Ds living costs and for loan 2
it used a national average. For both applications it checked Miss Ds credit file to understand
her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks combined
ELL concluded that Miss D had sufficient disposable income to afford the loans.
I am not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate given the term of the loans and the
fact ELL was looking to assure itself Miss D would be able to make the repayments
sustainably for four years in the case of loan one and three years for loan 2. I think it would
have wanted to understand her actual living costs and not rely on percentage assumptions
or national averages. However, I wont comment further on this as even based on the
information it had I dont think ELL made fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
From the credit checks it carried out ELL knew Miss D already had monthly credit
commitments of £378.45. There are contact notes that say the purpose of loan 1 was debt
consolidation but ELL hasnt submitted a Go Live Audit table showing which debts were to
be settled. And it recorded that Miss D was consolidating £0.00 on its disposable income
calculation document, so I dont think it has evidenced that it gave the loan to Miss D on the
basis that she was clearing other debts with it. This means that her monthly credit
commitments would be increasing to £504.69.
This would be a significant percentage of her income and I think ELL ought to have realised
there was a high risk that further increasing her debt meant it was unlikely the new loan
repayments would be sustainable for Miss D over a four-year period. And to meet its
obligations this was what it needed to check, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
There were already signs that Miss Ds finances were under pressure as the results of ELLs
credit check showed she was at, or close to, her limit on two of her credit cards and her
overdraft. It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss D.
Loan 2
My findings are similar for Miss Ds second loan. From the credit checks it carried out ELL
knew Miss D already had monthly credit commitments of £535.01. There is however
evidence that she was borrowing to repay other debts this time. ELL has evidenced that
Miss D was repaying two of her credit cards and that this would reduce her monthly credit
commitments by £78.24. Taking this into account, giving Miss D loan 2 meant ELL was
increasing Miss Ds monthly credit commitments to £743.71.
Again this would be a significant percentage of her income  even more so than at the time
of loan 1  so I think ELL ought to have realised there was a high risk that further increasing
her debt meant it was unlikely the new loan repayments would be sustainably affordable for
Miss D over a three-year period. And as Ive said, to meet its obligations this was what it
needed to check, not just the pounds and pence affordability. In addition Miss D was using
some of loan 2 to clear credit card debts. And, given the lenders, I think its reasonable to
assume these were likely on a lower or comparable interest rate - yet taking the loan was
increasing her overall indebtedness three-fold. So I dont think ELL can reasonably argue
that giving loan 2 to Miss D wasnt most likely having some kind of adverse impact on her
financial situation. It follows I think ELL was also wrong to give loan 2 to Miss D.
I havent found any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold the 
complaint.
Miss D responded by the deadline saying she had nothing further to add. ELL did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
As neither party sent in any comments or new information it follows I have no reason to 
change the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision  and I find ELL was 
wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Miss D.
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the capital that she borrowed because shehad the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1 and 2 and treat all the payments
Miss D made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ds loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Ds loan accounts results in there being a capital balance
outstanding on loan 2, then ELL should work with Miss D to agree a suitable payment
plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Miss D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ds complaint and Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman