DRN-2849180
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Nationwide Building Society staff dealt with her when she 
attended a branch.
What happened
Ms S says she went to a Nationwide branch in July 2020 and collapsed whilst there. She 
says Nationwide staff didnt offer her any assistance or help and prevented the door opening 
to allow her to leave. Ms S says an ambulance ought to have been requested for her and the 
staff made her take an ice cream wrapper with her. She says she may have had a mild 
stroke and would like the staff member sacked and would also like compensation for what 
took place.
Nationwide doesnt accept what Ms S says took place and says a manager watched the 
video footage from the branch. It says Ms S didnt fall to the floor and wasnt surrounded by 
staff. It also says Ms S was shouting and swearing and was correctly asked to take the 
wrapper with her which was thrown towards staff. Nationwide has said it may consider 
closing the account and that the branch door was locked due to the time of day.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it difficult to be sure what took place in branch as the video footage 
wasnt retained. The investigator didnt think it was for us to decide if there had been a 
breach of the Equality Act 2010 or that there any reason to think the review of the video 
footage was wrong. The investigator thought that if the wrapper was thrown at a staff 
member then that would be unacceptable, and that Nationwide was entitled to lock its 
branch door.
Ms S doesnt accept that view and maintains she was discriminated against and bullied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision and that she says that she has further 
information about her complaint. Im satisfied that the investigator told Ms S that any such 
information should be given to us by 1 June 2021 and so I think sufficient time has been 
given to provide such information.
Im satisfied that both sides to this complaint have provided largely opposite accounts of 
what took place in the branch in July 2020 and both sides say the other was at fault. I can 
see the video footage was looked at by a Nationwide manager and a detailed report made of 
what was shown but that footage didnt contain sound. I appreciate Nationwide says the 
footage is not available for me to view but I would have thought in a complaint of this nature 
that it ought to have retained a copy especially as it was considering closing Ms Ss account.
 
I dont think it possible to be sure what took place in the branch, but I think the important 
point is that Nationwide investigated Ms Ss complaint. And looked at detail at the video 
footage as well as speaking to its staff members. I appreciate Nationwide reached a different 
conclusion to that of Ms S, but I hope Ms S appreciates that it would be unfair to simply 
accept either sides version of events as being more likely. And I have no reason to conclude 
the Nationwide manager made a mistake in the report of what was shown on that video.
The investigator has explained that its not our role to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has 
been breached. I make clear to Ms S that it would be for a court to make such a decision, 
but I dont think Nationwide acted in a discriminatory manner. And I also think it acted 
reasonably by asking Ms S to take with her the wrapper. Im also satisfied that its up to 
Nationwide to decide if it wishes to close or lock its doors at a certain time and that is not 
something, I can fairly interfere in.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has fairly investigated Ms Ss complaint. I cant fairly 
conclude its staff acted in the way Ms S says they did, and, in any event, it is not our role to 
tell a business that it should dismiss a staff member as Ms S would like. I find this brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman