DRN-4335461
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Schroder Unit Trusts Limited. He said his complaint is about the 
poor performance of his investments held with it. He would like to be compensated for this 
along with an amount agreed for what he said is the considerable amount of time he has put 
in to get Schroder to supply correct information about his investments.
What happened
Mr P holds a stocks and shares ISA with Schroder. He invested in two investment funds 
from 1999 to 2020. Mr P said the performance of this investment has been poor. He 
calculated that on 8 December 1999 he invested £7000 and on 5 October 2020 this 
investment was worth around £7260, an increase of 3.72% over almost 21 years.  Mr P 
complained about this to Schroder. 
Schroder said in response that the two funds Mr P invested in had changed names or 
merged into another fund over the years. It said Mr P had been notified whenever this 
happened and was sent regular fund valuations by it. 
Schroder then described the performance of each fund and stated that the effects of macro 
financial events affected both funds in question. It mentioned both the dot.com bubble burst 
and the 2007/8 global financial crisis. 
Schroder said Mr P had carried out his investments on an execution only basis and it wasnt 
authorised to give any advice on the suitability of any of its funds. It sent £50 to Mr P for 
what it called an inconvenience caused to him for not being able to gather all information 
going back to 1999 in its records. 
Mr P was not happy with Schroders response and referred his complaint to our service. He 
said other funds had recovered from events such as the global financial crisis but the funds 
he invested in hadnt.   
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. She said she didnt think business needed to 
take any action. She said she had looked at documents such as the key investor information 
for the funds in question and considered the regulations and in particular COLL chapter 5 of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. She had a look at what decisions Schroder as 
fund managers took between 2019-2021. She said she was satisfied after considering the 
information provided by Schroder that decisions made by it were in line with its 
responsibilities under the regulations and its investment mandates.
Mr P is not in agreement with the investigators view. He said his complaint about the poor 
performance of his investments over the past 21 or so years between 1999 and 2020. He 
also said he disagrees with comments made by Schroder that the performance of one of his 
funds, a Tokyo fund, has performed broadly in line with the Nikkei 225 indices. He said this 
was not the case and gave examples to illustrate this. So as Mr P does not agree with the 
investigator, his complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has been clear about what his complaint is about. He held two investment funds 
managed by Schroder between 1999 and 2020 and he said these funds have performed 
poorly. He has provided illustrations about this including that overall, the value of his 
investment has risen by 3.72% over almost 21 years.
Schroder has responded and provided its explanation as to why the two funds in question 
have performed the way they have. It has pointed to events in the past that has affected the 
overall performance of the funds including the dot com bubble and the global financial crisis 
in 2017/18. 
Mr P has queried some of Schroders explanation including that it has said performance of 
its Tokyo fund was broadly in line with that markets indices. He has also reaffirmed that his 
complaint is about the whole time that he held his funds and not the sample period that the 
investigator looked into. 
Schroder has said recently in response to the investigators view that, although the Tokyo 
fund performance was broadly in line with the market indices, there was a performance gap, 
and this was because of fees and costs of running the fund. It said it couldnt add sufficient 
value against the market to cover this and provide excess returns to investors. It said it 
sincerely apologises for not having performed well enough and added that in recent times it 
had significantly underperformed mainly due to poor stock selection in a time of significant 
global events such as covid. 
I sympathise with Mr P  I understand and acknowledge the point he has made about the 
poor performance of his investments. But Its not part of the remit of this service to 
investigate or scrutinise fund performance or be critical of Schroder because an investment 
it managed turned out to be less than profitable than other investments on the market. Its 
clear that investing in the market comes with a risk of underperformance or capital loss. 
With this in mind, I am not persuaded that managing an investment that performs poorly is 
evidence on its own of Schroder acting unfairly or unreasonably to Mr P. 
That said, I have looked into and thought carefully about whether Schroder has treated Mr 
P fairly and reasonably in general, when it has carried out any instructions by him, with the 
information it has provided and how it has responded to his requests. Having thought about 
everything Ive seen and been told Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions 
as our investigator, and I dont think Schroder needs to do anything further. Ill explain why I 
say this. 
According to Schroder, Mr P took out the investments on an execution only basis. This 
means it was Mr Ps choice to invest in them without any advice provided by it. Mr P also 
had the choice to sell or switch his investments at any time that he held them, without 
penalty, but decided to hold onto them for the duration in question. Schroder has said 
during this period, the funds in question have changed names and at times merged. It says 
it has notified Mr P of this and has also provided a fund valuation to him on a regular basis.
Schroder has also provided an explanation as to why its two funds have not performed well. 
I can see it has addressed Mr Ps concerns and provided answers as to why performance 
has been poor  and how this has affected price. When I read all this, I dont think Schroder 
has been unreasonable or acted unfairly in the way it has provided information about the funds it has offered Mr P, how it has kept him up to date and then how it has responded to 
his concerns. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute between the parties that the investments Mr P held with 
Schroder performed poorly. What is in dispute is that Mr P would like to be compensated for 
this, where-as Schroder doesnt think it has done anything wrong as such  it has just 
managed a poorly performing investment. For me to consider Mr Ps request, I have to be 
able to fairly say that Schroder has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably 
 and I havent seen enough here to do so, for the reasons I have already given.   
Finally, Schroder offered to pay Mr P £50 due to what it has called the inconvenience of not 
providing enough about the performance of Mr Ps funds going back to 1999. This is due to 
the significant length of time that Mr P has held the funds for. I can see that it has already 
paid this amount to Mr P. For all the reasons I have given above, I dont think it needs to do 
anymore. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P, and I acknowledge the strength 
of his feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given, I dont uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman