DRN-3540019
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, 
(Transact) caused them loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call X. 
Transact was registered as the legal owner of the shares.
X was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands and investing in UK property.
In May 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice, saying it intended to restructure X 
by merging it into a new company. According to the notice, more and final details of this 
corporate action were expected in four weeks or so with it completing some months later. 
The notice said the redemption period for shares was being immediately extended to 
almost a year. Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mr and Mrs A or their adviser.
At the end of August 2012 Transact was notified of the details of the restructure. There 
would be a merger and Mr and Mrs As shares in X would be exchanged for bonds 
issued by the new company. Transact sent notice of this to the adviser it had on its 
records as being Mr and Mrs As adviser. Transact did this in September 2012. The 
restructure completed later.
Mr and Mrs A have said the bonds they received became virtually worthless. 
In support of their complaint, Mr and Mrs A have made a number of points including, in brief 
and in summary:
The restructure left them with a riskier asset and they believe Transact ought to have 
assessed its appropriateness for them.
Although their shares didnt give them a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law 
gave them a right to object to it and to receive instead a fair value for their shares. If 
Transact had done more earlier to inform them about the restructure and advise them of 
their options, they wouldve been able to exercise and enforce this right and avoid the 
loss that arose.
The May 2012 notice was news of a fundamental change to their investment and 
Transact shouldve passed this on to them.
In 2011 Transact added a new adviser account to its records but the party behind this 
request wasnt Mr and Mrs As adviser firm or authorised to act for it. So Transact 
incorrectly amended its records. As a result, the email address on its file to which it sent 
notification of the August 2012 notice wasnt an email address for Mr and Mrs As 
adviser. So Transact did not notify Mr and Mrs As adviser. Mr and Mrs A say Transacts 
use of a different reference number for the new adviser account and the use of the 
number 2 after the name of the adviser firm means this was a new adviser and not just 
a second account for an existing adviser. They also point out the form for the second 
account was signed by a director of Xs operator and the email address on it was one 
used by other firms on Transacts records.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs As complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
Our investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transact wasnt wrong to not pass on to Mr and Mrs A the May 2012 notice and to wait 
instead, given that nothing had been finalised, details werent provided, timeframes 
werent given and more information was to follow.
Transacts terms didnt promise it would pass on details of corporate actions, and said it 
was for consumers and their advisers to monitor these. But Transact was right to decide 
to pass on to Mr and Mrs A information it received in August 2012 with details of the 
restructure  and it did this correctly.
Adviser firms could have more than one adviser account with Transact, so the adding of 
a new account and the use of a new reference number didnt mean the details added 
didnt relate to an existing account  and the use of the number 2 denoted a second 
account for an existing adviser, not a new or different business. The person who signed 
the form was on the financial services register as carrying out a director function at that 
adviser firm, so Transact wasnt wrong to act on that request and it was wrong to say the 
email address on the form wasnt one for Mr and Mrs As adviser.
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate Mr and Mrs As options in 2012 or any legal 
implications of the 2012 corporate action.
The bonds resulting from the restructure werent a new holding Transact was accepting 
onto its platform, but a change to an existing holding. So Transact didnt have to assess 
the bonds for appropriateness. Also, Mr and Mrs As joint investment account wasnt a 
SIPP - so considerations specific to SIPPs didnt apply.
Earlier notification by Transact to Mr and Mrs As adviser of the contents of the May 2012 
notice is unlikely to have made a difference to their loss in any event. Exiting the 
investment at that stage wouldnt have been easy, even with a desire to do so and earlier 
knowledge of the content of the notices. The redemption period had been extended so 
that requests made since for redemptions wouldnt take place before the restructure 
happened  and none had taken place as our investigator understood it. Requests 
submitted after the restructure werent fulfilled either, from what had been said. 
Mr and Mrs A hadnt tried taking any legal or court action to recover value after the 
merger. If they had done so before the merger, it is far from certain they wouldve 
succeeded or what they might have got back if they had.
Mr and Mrs A didnt wish to accept our investigators opinion and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman. They said the investment was a normal transaction within their 
portfolio, not a gamble, and they were disappointed with our investigators opinion.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
Id mention Ive not considered what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, 
when Mr and Mrs A made the investment or its due diligence in accepting it onto its platform 
at that time  so if Mr and Mrs A had concerns about those events, theyd have to raise them 
with Transact separately and Ive not considered whether that could fall within our jurisdiction 
now. 
Ive not considered any of that here because, from how theyve described their complaint, 
Mr and Mrs A arent complaining about their initial investment in X and Im being asked to 
decide matters solely related to the 2012 restructure.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mr and Mrs A relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. 
Mr and Mrs As complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment onto its platform 
but about the restructuring of an investment already held on its platform. Also the investment 
here wasnt held within a SIPP.
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mr and Mrs As interests, treat them fairly, 
pay due regard to their information needs and give information to them in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The May 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next four to six weeks and that a new company should be listed a few months after that.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Transact to wait for more details rather than 
forwarding on to Mr and Mrs A the May 2012 notice or all or part of the information it 
contained. There was no detail about precisely what was going to take place, nor specific 
timings. I note that investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of the 
action anyway, given the extended redemption period and what the notice said about 
general timescales.
When in August 2012 Transact received details of exactly what would happen, it did decide 
to pass these on. Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though 
Mr and Mrs A didnt have a right to vote on the restructure, I think Transact was right to 
decide to pass this on, bearing in mind its obligations.
Mr and Mrs A dont agree Transact informed them, through their adviser, of the notice. But 
from what Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using an email address 
for Mr and Mrs As adviser. 
I say this having considered carefully all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In short, I dont agree with what Mr and Mrs A have said 
about those interactions indicating that the business behind them was not the adviser 
business that Transact thought it was. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to 
do what it did in September 2012 and forward details of the corporate action notice to the 
email address it used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mr and Mrs As adviser at the time wasnt aware of the plans and points of action outlined in the August 2012 notice.
So I think, by doing what it did, Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mr and Mrs As adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to 
communicate with Mr and Mrs A about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the 
adviser Mr and Mrs A had registered on its system.
The notice was information about what would be a substantial change to Mr and Mrs As 
investment. But I dont think Transact needed to do more than it did. It had no obligation to 
provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. It was for Mr and Mrs A, and 
their adviser, to consider the implications, decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investment or for Mr and Mrs A as investors. Nor do I think 
that Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the bonds Mr and Mrs A 
received or were to receive, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment but an alteration to 
an existing one.
In saying this I note the notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for 
Mr and Mrs A to avoid having their shares exchanged for the bonds through the restructure, 
and they didnt have a vote on whether it went through. Other rights or legal options 
Mr and Mrs A might have had in relation to the restructure, that arose from their status as 
shareholders rather than from the restructure proposals themselves - for example as a result 
of the company law governing the fund in the territory in which it was legally based - were 
rights or options that it was for them or their adviser to explore and consider. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact to have investigated, considered or advised 
Mr and Mrs A about wider rights of that kind.
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mr and Mrs As investment and, as the registered legal 
owner of the shares, it was safeguarding Mr and Mrs As investment by acting as custodian. 
So Transact had to keep Mr and Mrs As investment safe. But I dont think this means it had 
to explore or advise them on how to get out of the investment if they werent happy with how 
it might change as a result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the notices it received  and 
I dont think it needed to do more than it did. It follows that I dont think any losses 
Mr and Mrs A suffered on their investment were losses caused by failings by Transact in 
how it dealt with things at the time of the notices and the restructure.
Id add that if Mr and Mrs A had been told of the restructure proposals by Transact earlier or 
in a different way, Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been them either successfully 
redeeming their investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall Islands law, securing 
in the UK courts an award by virtue of which they were likely to successfully recover a 
payment to reduce their losses.
I say this bearing in mind Ive nothing to suggest anyone requesting a redemption after the 
May 2012 announcement successfully redeemed their investment before the restructure 
took effect. Also theres no suggestion Mr and Mrs A requested a redemption upon having 
been made aware of the restructure. 
Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs A or their adviser, upon 
becoming aware of the merger, raised any points about Mr and Mrs A having lost rights by 
virtue of not having been able to dissent in the way Mr and Mrs A have since described. So 
its not at all obvious that Mr and Mrs A or their adviser were aware of any such legal rights and Ive nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs A wouldve been likely to attempt to enforce those 
rights at that time. 
Overall I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mr and Mrs A wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of their investment 
and the losses they say arose as a result of that conversion. 
So although, given what happened here and the losses they suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mr and Mrs As situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in 
connection with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman