DRN-3989472
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy with the handling of a claim made under her furniture warranty 
underwritten by Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra).
What happened
In February 2022 Miss Y made a claim to the administrator of her furniture warranty, 
underwritten by Fortegra, when her sofa cushions were damaged.
Parts were ordered which took several months to arrive from the manufacturer. However, 
when they did arrive, parts had been missed from the original order, so needed to be 
ordered. When these were received, it was established the incorrect parts had been ordered, 
and again needed to be re-ordered.
In the interim, a second claim was made due to another cushion being damaged. Miss Y 
was also sent a large bag of furniture parts which werent actually for her, but despite 
chasing the claim administrators, this wasnt picked up or removed.
Several complaints were raised by Miss Y across the claim. Fortegra issued three final 
response letters, and a total of £100 compensation. However, as the claim still remained 
unresolved, Miss Y approached this service.
Our investigator considered what had happened between the claim being made in 
February 2022 and the last final response issued by Fortegra on 28 November 2022. She 
noted Fortegra had recognised things had gone wrong and thats why they had offered £100 
compensation. But the investigator didnt think this was enough, so she recommended this 
be increased to £200.
Miss Y didnt think the recommended increase in compensation was enough.
Fortegra didnt respond to the investigators assessment by the original deadline set, or the 
extended deadline the investigator gave at Fortegras request.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another company has acted on behalf of the underwriter, Fortegra, in handling Miss Ys 
claim and complaints. Where Ive referred to Fortegra throughout, this includes the actions 
carried out by their claim administrators acting on their behalf.
Firstly, Ill explain the time period Im considering here, and thats the same period 
considered by our investigator. That is from when the claim was made in February 2022 to 
when Fortegra issued their most recent final response  28 November 2022.
I recognise Miss Y is unhappy with the service shes received after this too, but shed need 
to raise this with Fortegra (via their administrators) as a new separate complaint. Once a 
final response has been issued for events after 28 November 2022, and if Miss Y remains 
dissatisfied, she may be able to bring that new separate complaint to our service  subject to 
our usual rules and timescales.
It isnt in dispute things have gone wrong during the time period Im considering. As both 
parties are already aware what happened throughout, and all the communication between 
them, I dont intend to comment on each event or communication individually. I dont mean 
this as a discourtesy to either party, instead this reflects the informal nature of this service 
and my role within it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the 
information provided when reaching my final decision.
Fortegra doesnt dispute the service Miss Y has received hasnt been in line with her 
reasonable expectations. There have been delays throughout, which includes parts being 
missed off orders, followed by the incorrect parts being obtained. This has resulted in repairs 
not being able to be completed. And this has been over a significant period of time.
During the claim there have been issues with communication, and prolonged periods where 
Miss Y hasnt been updated and instead, she has needed to chase things. Alongside this, 
Miss Y has been sent a significant size bag of furniture parts which werent for her, but 
despite raising this a number of times, this hasnt been removed. This has resulted in 
Miss Y having to store these parts which has been inconvenient given its size.
As I say, Fortegra doesnt dispute things havent gone as they wouldve expected, and this is 
why they offered £100 compensation. But having considered everything that happened from 
making the claim up to when Im considering  28 November 2022, I dont think £100 
compensation is sufficient here for the inconvenience Miss Y has been caused. Instead, I 
agree with our investigator that £200 is a fair and reasonable overall amount for the multiple 
things that went wrong, which has resulted in an extended period of inconvenience to 
Miss Y.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to:
Pay Miss Y a further £100 compensation taking the total amount to £200
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman