DRN-2794758
The complaint
Mr G has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr G was in an accident that wasn't his fault. He claimed on his policy. He was very unhappy 
with AXAs service and complained. AXA acknowledged that some of its service wasn't of 
the standard it aims to provide. And it accepted that Mr G had experienced unnecessary 
problems reporting the accident; long wait times on the phone; a lack of empathy; a lack of 
response to correspondence and a delay in it providing a courtesy car. It offered Mr G £200 
compensation for the impact of those things as well as a further £60 because it delayed 
providing a courtesy car for four days.
Mr G didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 25 March 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Gs made a number of detailed points and the case has been 
subject to a number of developments. But in this decision I don't intend to refer to every 
action, concern or complaint point. Ill instead focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues at the heart of Mr Gs complaint.
AXAs initial service and provision of a courtesy car
Its clear from Mr Gs concerns and AXAs initial response to them that AXAs service was 
below an acceptable standard. And, as I said earlier, it acknowledged it hadn't got everything 
right and offered Mr G £260 compensation, including £60 for not arranging a courtesy car 
promptly. Mr Gs policy says hes entitled to a courtesy car while his car is being repaired. 
And as he asked AXA to repair his car (even though it was later deemed a total loss) it was 
reasonable for him to expect a courtesy car to be provided when AXA collected his car for 
repair. But AXA didn't provide a courtesy car until some four days later.
Mr Gs policy also says that if AXA isn't able to arrange a courtesy car then it will pay £15 for 
each day that happens. And as Mr G was without a courtesy car for four days it offered him 
(4 x £15) £60 to compensate him for that. So its offered what his policy says it will do in 
those circumstances. But Mr G doesn't think that goes far enough. He said AXA had 
promised him a car would be delivered on a specific day (15 May 2019). And he's shown us 
emails to and from his work on that day to say he was expecting AXA to deliver a courtesy 
car to him that morning and hed travel to work once it had arrived. But the car didn't arrive. 
So Mr G says he missed a days work and lost a days pay as a result.
I've seen an email from AXA to Mr G on 13 May 2019 telling him it had instructed hire, but I 
couldn't find any record on AXAs file of it promising the car would be delivered by a certain 
time or date. I've noted Mr G sent AXA an email on the evening of 14 May 2019, at around 
6.30pm, in which he said that if AXA didn't provide a courtesy car by 10.30am the next day 
he would release his email chain with AXA on social media. But I haven't seen any direct 
response to the email or any guarantee by AXA that it would deliver the car the next 
morning. So, I don't think AXA had given Mr G any sort of promise that it would deliver a 
courtesy car the next day. And in those circumstances I don't think AXA was responsible for 
Mr G waiting at home the next day for a courtesy car which AXA hadn't told him was coming. 
It follows that I don't think it would be fair to instruct AXA to reimburse Mr G for any loss of 
pay as a result.
Further, even if that wasn't the case, I asked Mr G for evidence that hed lost a days pay. I'm 
grateful for the efforts he went to in order to find the relevant payslips. But having looked at 
those carefully, I'm not satisfied they do show hed lost a days pay in the week that he said 
he took a day off to wait for a courtesy car. To be clear, Mr G said he took the day off work 
on 15 May 2019. But the payslip for the week ending 19 May, which includes payment for 
15 May 2019, shows he received a full weeks wage (when compared to payslips for other 
full working weeks). Mr G told us that it was the payslip before that which shows he lost a 
days pay. But that payslip is for the period between 6 May and 12 May 2019. And Mr G 
wasn't expecting the courtesy car during that week. So, it seems unlikely hed have received 
a deduction in pay before hed taken the day off. It follows that I'm not persuaded Mr G lost a 
days pay because he took a day off on 15 May 2019. However, even if the evidence from 
the payslips was different - for the reasons I've given above - I don't think AXAs actions 
caused Mr G to take a day off on 15 May 2019.
That said I do understand AXAs failure to provide Mr G with a courtesy car promptly, 
together with its poor communication about why that was, must have been a source of 
frustration for him. So this is something I've factored in when I've provisionally awarded 
compensation below.
Liability, excess and NCD
Mr G was concerned that AXA: took too long to sort out liability for the accident with the 
other drivers (the third partys) insurer; didn't reimburse his excess promptly; and didn't 
reinstate his NCD.
The third party initially disputed that he was at fault for the accident. And where the parties to 
an accident both blame each other for it, then it's not unusual for the question of liability to 
take many months, if not years, to conclude. But in this case Mr G had compelling dashcam 
evidence that showed the third party was to blame for the accident. And eventually, around 
seven months later, the third partys insurer stopped contesting liability and reimbursed AXA 
for its outlay (what it had paid to settle the claim).
At that point, I would have expected AXA to also ask the third party insurer to reimburse 
Mr G the £650 excess hed paid. But for reasons that aren't clear, it was many months 
before Mr G received his excess back. Clearly that wasn't fair.
Further, given the third partys insurer had reimbursed AXA for its outlay, AXA should, at that 
point, have recorded the claim as non-fault and reinstated Mr Gs NCD. It might help if I 
repeat our investigator's explanation that its usual for claims where an insurer has yet to 
recover their outlay to be recorded as fault claims, which will affect the drivers NCD. But 
once the insurer has recovered their outlay then it should reinstate the NCD. But in this case 
AXA didn't do that. And that meant the incident would have still been shown on a shared 
insurance database as being Mr Gs fault when it shouldnt have been. AXA has since 
confirmed that it has now reinstated Mr Gs NCD. But its plainly not fair that it hadn't done so 
at the point that it recovered its outlay.To address that, I think AXA should send Mr G a letter he can show to the insurer(s) hes 
been insured with since his AXA policy lapsed in November 2019. That letter should show 
that the May 2019 incident wasn't his fault (NCD allowed) and that his NCD was reinstated 
from November 2019. It will then be Mr Gs new insurers decision as to whether he is due 
any premium refund or not. But I think AXAs mistake in not updating the correct status of the 
claim and Mr Gs NCD would have been a further source of distress and inconvenience for 
him, which I've considered when Ive awarded compensation below.
Compensation
As I've said above, AXA recognised some of its errors when it initially responded to Mr Gs 
complaint. And it offered Mr G £200 compensation for the impact of that and a further £60 
because he didn't have access to a courtesy car. I note Mr G didn't cash that cheque, so I 
think its fair that AXA should pay him that sum again now.
But given the number of errors in AXAs handling, as I've summarised above, and the impact 
of those on Mr G I don't think its compensation goes far enough. AXAs communication has 
clearly been poor. It didn't keep Mr G informed of what was happening or why. It didnt 
explain why it hadn't returned his excess and it left the claim showing as being his fault on a 
shared database for far longer than it should have done. And, given that Mr G knew he 
wasn't at fault for the accident, and that it had significantly tarnished his otherwise spotless 
driving history, I can understand thats been an immense source of frustration for him. So, to 
address the impact of that, on top of the £260 AXA has already offered to Mr G, I think it 
should pay him a further £400 compensation. For the avoidance of doubt that is total 
compensation of (£400 + £260) £660.
Developments
AXA accepted my provisional decision. Mr G asked me to reconsider it. I dont intend to 
summarise everything hes said here, instead Im going to focus on what I see as being the 
key issues. Mr G said that a lot of his interaction concerning the claim wasn't with AXA 
directly but with agents acting for it. He said he had contact with a number of these agents 
on 13 and 14 May 2019, including the garage assessing the damage to his car, a car hire 
company, and the repair network coordinating the matter. He described the confusion 
around the supply of a courtesy car, including questions about which party was at fault. Mr G 
said that was irrelevant as his policy entitled him to a like-for-like courtesy car regardless of 
fault. He said that, from memory, it was the repair network which told him the courtesy car 
would be provided on 15 May 2019. He explained that the deduction of salary for his annual 
leave was shown on a later wage slip. 
Mr G said he believed AXA hadn't provided all the relevant evidence, for example, evidence 
from its agents. And he believed that sight of that evidence would support his argument that 
he was promised a courtesy car on 15 May 2019 which didn't arrive. As such he insists that 
he took a days leave unnecessarily. He said AXA should reimburse him for the loss of 
earnings together with interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr G feels very strongly that he unnecessarily took a days leave because AXA - or 
one of its agents - promised him a courtesy car which didn't arrive on the appointed day. But, 
while I don't doubt that Mr G took a days leave, the evidence doesn't support his contention 
that AXA or one of its agents promised Mr G a courtesy car would be delivered to him on 15 May 2019. 
It might help if I explain that Mr Gs policy only entitles him to a small hatchback type car. 
And that car would usually be provided by the garage repairing the damage to it. Mr Gs said 
his policy entitled him to a like-for-like courtesy car. But I've checked his policy documents 
and those confirm that Mr G had not selected the courtesy car upgrade that would entitle him 
to such a like-for-like car. So, he was only entitled to a standard courtesy car that the garage 
would usually provide.
When AXA asked the garage why it hadn't provided a courtesy car, it said that was because 
Mr G wasn't at fault for the accident and it had referred him to a hire company to supply a 
car. That was because, when an accident is clearly not a policyholders fault, some hire car 
companies will be happy to provide a hire car on whats known as a credit hire basis. That is 
where the hire company will provide a similar car to the policyholders own and will try and 
recover the costs of the hire car directly from the third partys insurer. It appears that when 
the garage initially referred Mr G to the hire company it was considering providing a car on 
that basis. But the hire company wanted to ensure that the third party had accepted fault for 
the accident before doing so. 
When AXA found out Mr G was still without a hire car it instructed the repair network to 
provide him with one. But AXA didn't give the repair network its initial instruction until 
15 May 2019. So the repair network couldnt have told Mr G before 15 May 2019 to expect a 
hire car. The repair network then instructed the hire company to supply Mr G with a hire car, 
although I understand the car wasn't provided until 17 May 2019. 
Further, Mr G had sent AXA an email on 13 May 2019 asking it for details about when and 
how it would provide him with a courtesy car. He sent it another email the next day at around 
6.30pm. He said AXA hadn't replied to his email of the day before. He said his damaged car 
was still on his drive and hadn't been collected by the garage. He added that if AXA didn't 
provide a courtesy car by 10.30am the next day (15 May 2019) he would publish the email 
chain. But if the repair network had already promised Mr G a car the following day I don't 
think hed have had any need to send that email, as he could have clarified with the repair 
network directly how and when a car would be delivered. 
Also, Mr G hasn't previously mentioned, in any of his correspondence, a conversation with 
any of AXAs agents in which a hire car was promised to be delivered on 15 May 2019. Hed 
previously referred to AXAs email to him in which it had said, on 13 May, that it had 
instructed hire. And hed said AXA should have provided a car by 15 May, which isn't in 
dispute. But if a specific promise for a car had been made by one of AXAs agents I think 
Mr G would have referred to it in the correspondence at the time. But Mr G didn't do so. So 
I'm not persuaded that one of AXAs agents promised Mr G a car on 15 May 2019. It follows 
that I don't intend to delay matters further by requesting additional evidence from AXAs 
agents. And, as I don't think AXA or its agents reneged on a promise to deliver a car on 
15 May 2019, I don't think it needs to reimburse Mr G for any lost income because he took 
the day off. 
I do recognise that Mr G had a very unsatisfactory claim journey. It was bedevilled by delays 
and poor communication throughout his claim and complaint. And hes been understandably 
very upset with AXAs handling of the matter. And I considered the impact of this on Mr G 
when I said I was intending to award compensation of £600, plus £60 AXA had offered for 
the lack of use of a courtesy car. It seems Mr G doesn't think that compensation goes far 
enough. But it is a substantial sum, and Im satisfied it fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience arising from the complaint. Thats because its in line with awards we make in 
cases of equal seriousness. So I don't intend to amend my provisional findings.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to:
Compensate Mr G in the sum of £660 in total.
Send Mr G an updated NCD certificate and letter to confirm that the May 2019 
incident wasn't his fault and that it has reinstated his NCD from November 2019.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman