DRN-2915214
Complaint
Mr L has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) decision to default 
his overdraft and sell the outstanding balance to a third-party debt collection agency. He 
says he lost his job as a result of the pandemic and it was unfair to take this action during 
this time. 
Background
One of adjudicators looked at Mr Ls complaint and didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
It might help for me to explain that the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) put temporary guidance in place instructing banks how to provide help for customers 
who were experiencing temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. But the 
purpose of this guidance wasnt to override the general forbearance rules and guidance in 
place for a customer already in pre-existing financial difficulty, or encourage them not to take 
steps to address an unsustainable debt. 
Mr L had already been over his overdraft limit for sometime when NatWest started the 
collections process. And while its possible Mr L might have believed that his difficulties were 
temporary and due to the pandemic, its difficult to agree with him on this as his account 
stopped receiving salary credits from the summer of 2019. So while I sympathise with any 
financial difficulty Mr L has had and might be experiencing, Im not persuaded that any 
difficulty was temporary and directly due to a reduction of income because of the pandemic. 
I know that Mr L would have been sent some letters about his debt during the initial stages of 
the pandemic. However, NatWest didnt start the formal process and send the relevant 
notifications to terminate Mr Ls overdraft agreement until July 2020. By this stage, Mr Ls 
account hadnt received a salary credit for a year and his balance had been over its agreed 
limit for a number of months. Mr L also insisted his finances had worsened as a result of the 
pandemic. 
In these circumstances, while I sympathise with what Mr L has told us and fully appreciate 
hes gone through a difficult time, I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or 
proportionate to continue ignoring Mr Ls obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely . 
After all while a default might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer a borrower 
certain protections in relation to the debt which has been defaulted. And asking NatWest to 
remove the default here when it seems unlikely Mr L will be able to repay this debt in line 
with the initial arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and not in   Mr Ls 
interests or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Ls overdraft when it did and issue a 
formal demand notice, offering Mr L the opportunity bring his account up-to-date before it 
would take any action in July 2020. As this is the case and Mr L didnt get into contact or 
take steps to comply with the formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that NatWest didnt 
do anything wrong or treat Mr L unfairly when it defaulted Mr Ls overdraft and it follows that 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman