DRN-3221521
Complaint
Ms B says that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly removed her overdraft and moved her account 
to collections.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Bs concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Ms B is unhappy that TSB stopped sending her text message alerts telling her that she was 
over her agreed overdraft limit. Ive thought about what Ms B has said and I can understand 
why she might have found the text messages helpful. But these messages were stopped 
when Ms Bs account moved to collections. This is because TSB needed to follow a more 
formal notification process once this happened. Its also worth noting that as the texts 
stopped after Ms Bs overdraft balance had been over its limit for some time, its difficult for 
me to say that further messages would have made a difference to Ms Bs position.
Ms B is also unhappy that she wasnt offered forbearance measures as part of the temporary 
guidance issued during the pandemic. But I understand that the temporary measures were 
applied automatically to Ms Bs account. And this meant that Ms B didnt pay any interest on 
the first £500 of her balance. TSB also delayed the introduction of its increased charges for 
arranged overdrafts too. 
So Im satisfied that TSB did apply the guidance to Ms Bs account. And as Ms B didnt get in 
contact to explain her situation by February 2021, I dont think it would have been fair, 
reasonable or proportionate for TSB to ignore that Ms B had been over its limit for some, or 
the fact that the overdraft had appeared to have become demonstrably unsustainable for 
her. And by this stage, I would have expected TSB to have taken corrective action on Ms Bs 
overdraft in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. 
So Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to begin the process of taking 
corrective action in relation to Ms Bs overdraft when it did. I know that Ms B says she didnt 
receive the letters TSB sent her because she was abroad at the time. But TSB wont have 
known that as Ms B didnt notify it of this prior to the letters being sent out. And TSB could 
only send the letters, which needed to be sent by post, to the address it had for Ms B at the 
time.
Ive seen that Ms B has referred to the repeat overdraft use rules set out in CONC 5D and 
she believes that removing her overdraft caused her financial difficulty. But Ms Bs overdraft 
wasnt removed as a result of the repeat overdraft use ules. Her overdraft was removed 
because shed breached the terms and conditions by exceeding her limit for an extended 
period. Bearing in mind the above and Ms B didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what 
was owed, once the final demand was sent in March 2021, Im satisfied that TSB was 
entitled to withdraw Ms Bs overdraft. 
Id also add that it appears as though Ms B is unable to repay what she owes within a 
reasonable period of time. And I do sympathise with the position that shes in. But asking 
TSB to reinstate Ms Bs overdraft, or remove the default, when it seems unlikely Ms B will be 
able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would arguably be 
counterproductive and not in Ms Bs interests or that of any future lender. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly and 
Ive not been persuaded to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Ms B. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at 
least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind TSB of its continuing obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect the outstanding 
balance remaining on Ms Bs account and its the case shes experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman