DRN-2930920
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that he received confusing information from TSB Bank plc about the terms 
of his TSB credit card account.
What happened
Mr K spoke with TSB to confirm the details of the promotional interest free period for his 
credit account. During the conversation, Mr K was told information which confused him as he 
felt that it didnt match his understanding of the interest free period. Mr K wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ks complaint. They noted that they couldnt corroborate what Mr K had or 
hadnt been told during the conversation, but they apologised for any confusion that might 
have occurred. TSB also confirmed the details of the interest free promotional offer to Mr K.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and felt that the incorrect information hed been 
given had caused him to not make credit purchases which were no longer available to him 
and had also caused him considerable stress. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they accepted that Mr K might 
have been given incorrect information by TSB, they felt that TSBs response to Mr Ks 
complaint, including confirming the correct information and apologised to Mr K for any 
confusion, did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been confusing for Mr K to have been told information 
about the interest free promotional period on his card that didnt match his understanding of 
that promotional period.
However, the terms of that promotional period are clearly stated on the credit agreement 
thats been provided to this service by TSB and which was signed by Mr K. Furthermore, I 
feel that if Mr K was confused, he could have sought further clarification from alternative TSB 
staff. 
As such, I find it very difficult to conclude that Mr K being given the incorrect information 
directly led to a material loss for Mr K in regard to him not proceeding with purchases he 
intended to make, and I say this because I feel that Mr K could have confirmed the 
information himself from the signed credit agreement or taken additional steps himself to 
resolve the confusion.
In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that TSB would have 
apologised to Mr K for what took place and to have provided the correct information to him. 
TSB did that here, and while I appreciate that Mr K may have incurred some stress and 
inconvenience because of what happened, I feel that TSBs apology does constitute a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint and I dont feel that any form of compensation is 
warranted in this instance. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action at this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman