DRN-3134895
The complaint and background
Mr and Mrs M complain about their bank, HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say the bank failed to 
protect them from financial harm caused by a cryptocurrency scammer Xtraderfx.  
As Mr M had all the dealings with HSBC UK Bank Plc, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come from Mr M himself.
Mr M says he clicked an online advert about investing in Bitcoin which appeared to be 
endorsed by a well-known celebrity and TV programme. He was subsequently telephoned 
by a representative of Xtraderfx after leaving his contact details on a webform. Mr M alleges 
they were scammers posing as genuine cryptocurrency traders, as a result of which he lost 
around £26,000. The payments to Xtraderfx were made using debit and credit card accounts 
held with HSBC. He is unhappy that HSBC refused to refund him when (in his view) it ought 
to have been aware Xtraderfx were scammers prior to his payments. He also doesnt think it 
appropriately handled his chargeback and section 75 claims.  
HSBC denies responsibility for the loss. Its position, broadly, is that Mr M didnt provide the 
evidence required for it to process chargeback claims. It also concluded he had no section 
75 rights. However, it recognised it could have provided him with better customer service 
and paid him £100 in recognition of this.  
Ive listed the transactions in dispute here:
No. Date Account type Amount Running total
1 14 November 2018 Mastercard (credit card) £300 £300
2 19 November 2018 Mastercard (credit card) £5,000 £5,300
3 20 November 2018 Visa (debit card) £11,000 £16,300
4 28 November 2018 Visa (debit card) £10,000 £26,300
Mr M believed he was trading in cryptocurrency  and that he was making very good profits 
based on the information shown to him on his Xtraderfx online platform. Following his third 
transaction, Mr Ms account immediately experienced a loss of nearly £10,000. Mr M 
questioned why this was allowed to happen and a broker for Xtraderfx allegedly informed 
him that if he held a managed account, this wouldnt have happened. The broker told him if 
he paid an additional £10,000 into his account, hed be provided with insurance covering 
£5,000 and a loan of £5,000 (essentially covering his losses). Mr M says he instructed the 
broker not to place any trades without his agreement. Around December 2018, Mr Ms 
account experienced further losses so he instructed the broker to close his account and 
return his funds. The broker tried to persuade Mr M not to close his account and place more 
funds onto it. He refused and his account was subsequently closed. Mr M received no further 
contact from Xtraderfx, nor did he receive the return of funds he requested.  
On 1 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision uphold this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the timeusing sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Xtraderfx were not carrying out legitimate cryptocurrency trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr M. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
a) On 6 July 2018, an alert about Xtraderfx was published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) warning that they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction 
without authorisation. This is a potential indicator of dishonest intentions. 
b) On 23 June 2020, the High Court of England and Wales wound up Xtraderfx citing it 
was in the publics interest to do so. In considering the petition for winding up, the 
Insolvency Service presented evidence that Xtraderfx targeted customers in the UK 
and abroad advertising its services online via social media channels and used false 
celebrity endorsements to do so. It was noted that if clients attempted to remove 
funds from their trading accounts, they were advised that no withdrawals could be 
made until personal identification was supplied, yet this information was not 
requested upon them accepting client deposits. It noted in some cases, clients lost 
money despite paying insurance which was meant to retrospectively cover their 
losses. It was further noted that they failed to file statutory accounts and had no 
legitimate presence at their registered office. A Chief Investigator for the Insolvency 
Service said: This was nothing but a scam as (Xtraderfx) tricked their clients to 
use their online platform under false pretences and no customer has benefited as 
their investments have been lost. In my judgement, the High Court has determined 
Xtraderfx were operating fraudulently and I am satisfied this was the case. Ive also 
noted that the deceptive tactics reported by the Insolvency Service match Mr Ms 
experience and that of common binary options investment scam victims.  
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
a) Did HSBC deal with Mr Ms chargeback claim fairly?
b) Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr M and/or 
his account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort of 
intervention?
c) If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?d) And if so, was Mr M partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa and Mastercard (the schemes relevant to Mr 
Ms debit and credit card transactions) whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute 
between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to 
second-guess Visa or Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Mr M is upset because HSBC refused to attempt chargebacks through Visa (for his debit 
card transactions) or Mastercard (for his credit card transactions). In my judgment, it was not 
unreasonable of HSBC to not have attempted chargebacks with Visa or Mastercard.  Ill 
begin with my considerations against the Visa chargeback scheme rules. I am mindful that 
the Visa chargeback rules did cover binary-options (or investment) trading from 14 October 
2017, i.e. prior to the disputed transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process.
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required HSBC to present dated 
evidence that Mr M had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation 
from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available 
balances on the same day. Unfortunately, merchants like Xtraderfx were aware of the 
specific requirements of the chargeback scheme and could manipulate the available 
balances. Ive noted this happened in Mr Ms case. 
Though not material to the circumstances of this case, it is worth adding for completeness 
that, from 1 December 2018, Visas rules changed again to require binary-options merchants 
(and other high-brand risk merchants) to be coded under Merchant Category Code 
(MCC) 7995Betting, including Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, 
and Wagers at Race Tracks. Visa Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these merchants 
are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require licensing by 
the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason code 12.7 
(invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a much shorter 
timescale of 75 days from the transaction date for a claim to be processed. This reason 
code would not have been applicable at the time Mr M requested a chargeback as 
merchants like Xtraderfx were not yet required by Visa to re-code. 
As the disputed transactions occurred in 2018 (after the changes to Visas chargeback 
reason codes were published), HSBC could only have successfully processed Mr Ms 
chargeback further than it did if he had the required evidence. And by the time Mr M realised hed fallen victim to a scam (after his final payment), he had no available balances left. So, 
declining to attempt a chargeback in accordance with the Visa chargeback process in 
circumstances where there were no reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair 
nor unreasonable exercise of HSBCs discretion.
Mastercards 2018 chargeback rules state:
Chargebacks are available to the issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for 
gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers have no chargeback rights 
related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on 
any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
This supports HSBCs decision not to process chargeback claims related to Mr Ms credit 
card account following his complaint that he was scammed. 
Having discussed the matter of fraud and scams with Mastercard, it has explained that 
cardholder dispute chargeback rights are restricted regardless of whether the activity was 
illegal. In short, Mastercard considers the purpose of the transaction to load funds into the 
gambling or investment account and not what acts or omissions subsequently occur with the 
funds. So even though Mr M had valid claims surrounding the legitimacy of Xtraderfx, it 
didnt change HSBCs chargeback options  which were significantly limited by Mastercard. 
It follows that HSBC had no available dispute rights to have attempted a chargeback in 
relation to Mr Ms credit card transactions either.  
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with the chargeback claims at the time Mr M presented his case, 
so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr M was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, 
under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; andIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Mr Ms account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ms case, there was a warning about Xtraderfx on the FCAs published warning list and 
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal around four months prior to Mr Ms initial payment. It is not 
unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to 
include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission. I accept the warning would not have identified what type of investment was 
being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that 
these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I do think 
HSBC ought to have automatically blocked it; and it had several months to update and 
communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mr M before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all 
was well.
Indeed, it appears that there were in fact fraud triggers that prompted HSBC to speak to and 
write to Mr M in relation to his debit card transactions to Xtraderfx. However, HSBC is unable 
to provide copies of those calls or any detailed notes of the conversations that took place. Mr 
M says he wasnt advised against proceeding with the transaction and Ive found his 
testimony to be compelling and consistent throughout.
It appears HSBC was merely checking whether it was actually Mr M who was carrying out 
these transactions. But, as Ive said above, its responsibility goes further than simply 
checking that a payment is authorised, and HSBC ought to have had some concerns that Mr 
M was falling victim to a scam.   
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him that there was a regulatory warning and invited him to look more closely 
into this trader. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with unregulated 
and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information in the public 
domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of potential 
fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). After all, Xtraderfx isnt new to regulated firms and weve 
seen several HSBC customer complaints about this particular dealer. It seems likely that 
HSBC wouldve seen a number of consumer complaints prior to and following the FCAs 
warnings to have been familiar enough with this scammers deceptive trading practices. 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr M with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
causation
If HSBC had asked Mr M what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. HSBC did not need to know for certain whether 
Mr M was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked more 
closely into Xtraderfx before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling; he was a pensioner and 
described himself as having little computer skills. It seems more probable that he would have 
made further enquiries into whether or not Xtraderfx were regulated in the UK or abroad. He 
could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of 
unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied that a warning 
from his trusted bank would probably have exposed Xtraderfxs smoke and mirrors, causing 
him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Ms payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. 
But for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr M would 
probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr M was to blame for what 
happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. At the time of his 
trading, Xtraderfx was subject to an FCA warning but Mr M would have needed to know how to search for a regulators warning. Having reviewed what information would have been 
available on a web search at the time of Mr Ms payments, the FCAs warning did not appear 
with any level of prominence unless you included FCA in your search. I do not place too 
much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously 
alluded to about the information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary 
consumers.
Mr M began with a small investment, so he was cautious. Once his trades apparently started 
to perform, he increased his deposits. Ive taken note of the losses he experienced 
following his third transaction and this may have given him cause for concern. But Ive also 
weighed up the assurances he received from Xtraderfx that a further deposit would enable it 
to recoup his losses through a managed account service, insurance and a loan credit into 
his account  this was indeed corroborated by the Insolvency Services findings. Mr M 
trusted who he believed to be experienced traders and had no cause to doubt their 
assurances. Unaware of the common deceptive tactics of scammers, as communicated by 
Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 2017, he unwittingly agreed to make a final deposit. 
When those funds were lost, he made no further deposits onto his platform as he realised it 
was a scam. I do not think he could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company he was 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a 
simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr M should share blame for what happened.
As Im satisfied HSBC could have prevented all of the loss, I dont need to consider whether 
a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 ought to succeed in relation to Mr 
Ms credit card deposit-transactions. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted the outcome but felt there was no provision for compensation in recognition 
of the distress that was caused by HSBC. Mr M suffered ill health and didnt feel the banks 
offer of £100 recognised the trouble and upset this matter caused, not least the time its 
taken to get to this point. Mr and Mrs M say theyve been denied the use of a considerable 
amount of money which has added to their suffering. 
HSBC disagrees with my provisional decision and has made further submissions. I have 
carefully read and digested those submissions in full  but HSBC has helpfully summarised 
its key points, which, in the interest of conciseness, I now repeat:
There is a striking lack of detail as to the background of this complaint and only 
limited information on key issues has been provided in support, which raises further 
concerns;
The ombudsman has selectively quoted from the FSA Consultation Paper and 
misapplies it to this provisional decision;
The ombudsman seeks to apply retrospective regulation by the back door  that is 
not the purpose of your service. If the regulator intended that we be obliged to take 
steps to block payments to merchants one month after they were the subject of an 
FCA or IOSCO warning, or indeed to automatically block transactions on a blanket 
basis, they would have made this clear. They did not; and
The ombudsmans contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable. Mr Ms losses were objectively reckless and inconsistent with how a 
reasonable person would have behaved. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered all the evidence and arguments in light of HSBCs and Mr Ms response 
in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should largely be upheld  for the 
reasons that follow.
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. HSBC submitted a 
chronology of events along with evidence explaining the background, as reported to it by Mr 
M. Therefore, there was no need for me to repeat them all again in detail in my decision. 
HSBC understood the nature of the complaint enough to issue a final response to Mr M, so I 
dont find HSBCs point in respect of the background lacking detail to be material to the 
findings and it has not clarified what information it feels it has not already seen. 
HSBC suggests Ive misapplied the FSAs 2012 Consultation Paper - Banks Defences 
Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012 paper) in 
my provisional decision. Im aware that the contents of the 2012 paper did not specifically 
reference binary options or cryptocurrency scams. However, I dont think the intention of the 
2012 paper was to limit the types of investment fraud firms ought to focus on. Not least 
because the 2012 paper noted firms use of Industry Intelligence at chapter 10. And 
specifically at paragraph 10.9, which shared examples of good practice:
A bank participates in cross-industry forums on fraud and boiler rooms and makes 
active use of intelligence gained from these initiatives in, for example, its transaction 
monitoring and screening efforts. 
A bank takes measures to identify new fraud typologies. It joins up internal 
intelligence, external intelligence, its own risk assessment and measures to address 
this risk 
Binary options and cryptocurrency scams are types of investment fraud and Im satisfied the 
spirit of the 2012 paper was intended to provide examples of good and poor practice for 
firms in tackling investment fraud more generally. This is evident by the FCAs inclusion of 
the contents of the 2012 paper in its 2015 and 2018 Financial Crime Guides, along with its 
FCTR 14.1.2 in December 2018. I think this demonstrates that it has considered the 
contents of the 2012 paper to remain relevant over the years. 
I was mindful of the High Court judgment referred to by HSBCPhilipp v Barclays Bank
plc [2021] EWHC 10 (Comm)even though I did not cite it. In that case, the judge took a 
different view about the so-called Quincecare duty on a bank. But Im not suggesting the 
Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the judge said, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Indeed, DISP Rule 3.6.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook states that, The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what 
is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This wide 
remit is further clarified in DISP Rule 3.6.4:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
a) relevant:i. law and regulations;
ii. regulators rules, guidance and standards;
iii. codes of practice; and
b) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In other words, whilst we do take account of caselaw such as Philipp, we are not bound by it 
if, in all the circumstances and in the ombudsmans opinion, it would result in unfair or 
unreasonable outcomes. 
HSBC say that although it can apply blocks to certain merchants, these can be circumvented 
by those merchants changing merchant/acquirer codes. It has not expressed how this 
applies to Mr Ms case. Ive noted the payments as listed on his statements were sent to 
Xtraderfx, so I make no further comment here.
HSBC refers to paragraph 2.11 of the FSA Consultation Paper which it argues; confirmed 
that there should be strong grounds for suspicions for payments to be delayed, still less for 
the more extreme circumstances of preventing a series of payments. This threshold would 
not have been satisfied by the existence of an FCA or IOSCO warning.
At paragraph 10.4 of the 2012 paper, the FSA noted there are a number of sources 
available for building up a watch list for investment fraud. Among other things, it included 
lists published on the FSA website of UK and overseas unauthorised businesses. And lists 
published by other organisations e.g. the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions Investor Alert list, which it noted covered a number of different jurisdictions.  
If the regulator is satisfied that its own warning lists, along with IOSCOs warnings lists are 
sources available for building up a watch list for investment fraud, I think this satisfies the 
threshold for strong grounds for suspicions enabling HSBC to delay payments to payees 
published on said lists. If HSBC has the capabilities of delaying payments to particular 
merchants, Im not sure why it wouldnt be in a position to do so from the first payment. In 
the context of Mr Ms case, Im satisfied that HSBC ought to have blocked payments to 
Xtraderfx based on credible warnings published by the FCA and IOSCO, along with its own 
customer complaints about this merchant. 
HSBC takes issue with my comments on regulatory alerts published by the FCA and/or 
IOSCO and suggests I seek to apply retrospective regulation by the back door. There is no 
retrospective application of obligations here. A regulated firm has always been obliged, if 
only as a matter of good practice, to take account of alerts published by the regulators  for 
the reasons set out in the 2012 paper that I previously cited. It is neither onerous nor unfair 
for an international bank to maintain a watchlist of potentially fraudulent or illegally-operating 
payees; nor to pause any payments directed to such persons rather than simply execute the 
instructions of lay clients with less knowledge and expertise. It is true I concluded that a one-
month grace period from publication might be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  
but that merely operates in favour of firms to give them time to update their systems. Within 
the spectrum of reasonable conclusions, I could equally have concluded that, in this day and
age, electronic alerts should be acted upon more quickly. I am satisfied that it is fair and
reasonable for a large corporate body to update its fraud alerts and watchlists within a
month of a regulator publishing an alert. HSBC has given no good reason why this is not
the case. I still think it would be unreasonable to expect a firm to act immediately on an
alert because that would not take account of the commercial realities and logistics faced
by bodies corporate.
HSBC highlight that Mr M paid over £25,000 in 14 days without checking the legitimacy of 
the merchant and so should bear some responsibility for his losses. I did think very carefully about whether Mr M contributed to his losses. But I was satisfied that Mr M was the victim of 
a very sophisticated scam. He started with smaller payments and was encouraged to deposit 
more money after seeing returns. I think HSBC had better insight into this type of fraud, for 
example; through its own customer complaints and information provided to it by Visa to 
understand the level of sophistication involved with these types of scams. Notably, simulated 
trading platforms and merchants preventing cardholders from withdrawing their available 
balances. I do appreciate there was a warning about Xtraderfx in the public domain at the 
time of Mr Ms investment but I dont think he saw this and I also dont think he could have 
reasonably known the operation of this type of scam unless prompted by for instance, his 
trusted bank. I think the onus was on HSBC to inform Mr M of the risk that he would likely 
lose all of his money if he made payments to Xtraderfx. And that responsibility fell upon 
HSBC from the initial payment based on what it ought to have known about Xtraderfx. 
On the question of interest, 8% simple which HSBC called a punitive rate. It is not a 
punitive rate as alleged, but simply represents a notional average cost of consumer 
borrowing to cover someone being without their money as a result of wrongdoing for which 
we are holding a firm liable; it does not represent actual loss of interest, which may now be 
zero on a current account or less than 1% on a savings account. Many consumers have to 
pay much higher interest in order to borrow, e.g. via credit cards or short-term loans. 
I do appreciate Mr Ms concerns that HSBC caused delays in returning his funds and that 
this matter has caused him considerable distress and inconvenience, particularly being 
deprived of his funds for so long. I also recognise that HSBC paid Mr M £100 compensation 
but this was in recognition of some customer service failings  including quoting an incorrect 
date on a letter. I think the substantive cause of Mr Ms distress and inconvenience was 
Xtraderfx. I think HSBC does hold blame for not doing what I think it ought to have done but 
Im satisfied the settlement proposed puts this right, including the recognition for the time Mr 
M has been deprived of his funds and the difficulties this has caused him. I dont intend to 
penalise HSBC for the actions of Xtraderfx by awarding additional compensation for the 
significant distress caused by them rather than HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
HSBC Bank UK Plc to refund all of Mr and Mrs Ms stolen payments (totalling £26,300). 
This was a current account, so HSBC should add interest to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of 
loss. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman