DRN-3081509
The complaint
Mr M has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with two 
unaffordable loans.
  
What happened
TFS Loans provided Mr M with two guarantor loans. The details are as follows:
Loan Amount Term Total to 
repayMonthly 
Instalment
1 £1000 24m £1650 £68.76
2 £3000 60m £7035 £117.25
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided these loans. They concluded that although TFS Loans carried out proportionate 
checks, it didnt make fair lending decisions for either loan. TFS Loans disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr M, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr M wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr M of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Ms ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate for loans 1 
and 2?
I have looked through some documents and also listened to call recordings that TFS have 
provided and by doing this I have managed to obtain an understanding of what happened 
when it agreed to lend to Mr M. I can see that it verified Mr Ms income on both occasions by 
asking him for payslips. Mr M declared his income to be around £1900 a month and TFS 
verified this. It also asked Mr M about his expenses, looked through bank statements and 
used a credit search to check for his credit commitments. It says after it did this, it worked 
out that Mr Ms disposable income on both occasions and says it could see that he could 
afford the loan repayments. I can see that it also took into consideration what it found on Mr 
Ms credit file on each occasion, including asking him about defaults that he had and 
factoring these into its assessment. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mr M to have enough disposable income to afford the loans. Ive listened at length to all of 
the calls it has submitted to our service. On this occasion, I think it carried out enough 
checks and gathered enough information that I think were proportionate for both loans so 
that it could make a lending decision.
But it also needed to act on any information that it would have gathered and make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. So, I need to go on and consider whether 
it did this for loans 1 and 2.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision for loans 1 and 2?Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out, on balance were proportionate. But I dont 
think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision on each occasion it lent to Mr M, based on 
what it had in front of it. 
As I have already mentioned, I have listened to the call recordings carefully. For loan 1 Mr M 
discusses several gambling transactions on his bank statements with TFS Loans. I havent 
been able to see the bank statements that TFS Loans used in its assessment and it hasnt 
been able to supply a copy of these to our service. But on balance, after listening to the call, 
I agree with our investigator that Mr M was having problems managing his finances. He 
discusses with TFS Loans gambling transactions in a call recording. These add up to 
significant amounts of money in relation to how much he was earning. And when he applies 
for his second loan several months later, TFS Loans raises this again with Mr M and asks 
him if he is gambling the same amounts and he responds, yeah probably about the same. 
So there has been no improvement or change with Mr Ms circumstances here between loan 
1 and loan 2. 
TFS Loans took Mr Ms winnings from his gambling off his expenditure and used the 
difference as to what he would spend on average each month on gambling. It has told our 
service that it has done this and used Mr Ms winnings as income. But I dont think that this is 
a fair assessment of Mr Ms finances. I cant see how this would give it confidence that Mr M 
would be able to repay either loan in a sustainable way, as Mr M would need to win at 
gambling every month in order to have enough disposable income to repay all that he had 
committed too.   
Bearing all this in mind, I think the information TFS Loans gathered showed that Mr M would 
not have been able to repay either loan in a sustainable manner. In particular from what was 
discussed by the parties about his gambling transactions were such that he was paying out 
more than he was earning. He was having problems managing his finances and this didnt 
improve when he asked for loan 2 either. On balance, I think it would have become apparent 
to TFS Loans that the loan repayments wouldnt have been sustainable over the lifetime of 
either loan. 
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for each loan. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loans 1-2. 
The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr M was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loans 1-2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision  For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman