DRN-4331828
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) recorded inaccurate information about him
on the Consumer Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, regarding a claim under his
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B says he filled his car with contaminated fuel in February 2018. He contacted UKI to
inform it that he held the filling station company responsible. He says no claim was made for
the damage caused to his car via UKI. But the business recorded the claim on the CUE
database anyway. Mr B says he wouldve been able to source insurance more cheaply if the
incorrect entry on CUE hadnt been made.
UKI says an incident was recorded as information only following the contact it received from
Mr B in 2018. It says he called in December 2022 to query how the CUE information had
been recorded. UKI told him this was showing as information only. It says Mr B called again
in January 2023 to advise the CUE record was impacting on the price of his insurance.
UKI says its agent re-opened the claim and closed it as non-fault. It says this shows that the
filling station company was at fault. UKI says it paid Mr B £50 to apologise that a complaint
wasnt logged earlier.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says UKI had made a mistake when recording
the incident in 2018 on the database. She says its appropriate that this information had
been corrected to show as a non-fault claim with £0 costs. She says it was fair that Mr B
was offered compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain.
The CUE database exists to identify misrepresentation and to prevent fraud. Most insurers
are signed up to CUE. In the event of an incident being reported the insurer will make a
record that is then visible on the database, whether it leads to a claim or not.
In this case Mr B reported an incident in 2018 relating to contaminated fuel. He acted
correctly in doing this as required by his policy terms and conditions. He says he didnt claim
through his insurance policy for any losses. I note this isnt disputed by UKI. However, it was
correct that UKI recorded the incident on the CUE database.
Mr B says he subsequently identified that the insurance quotes he received were affected by
how UKI had recorded this incident on the CUE database. UKI doesnt dispute it recorded
this incorrectly as an at-fault claim. So, it changed this to non-fault when Mr B brought this
to its agents attention in January 2023.
Mr B has since liaised with the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB). Its responsible for managing
the CUE database. The information it provided shows a record from 2018 relating to Mr B
when an incident was registered as, Open Notification Only. It also shows a payment of
£50 was made under the description, Insured Vehicle Loss or Damage. This is different to
how UKI says the incident was recorded after it made the amendment in January 2023.
I asked UKI to comment on the report provided by the MIB. It responded to say it paid Mr B
£50 redress and that this will show on the CUE database. It also says:
[the] database is a record of any claims recorded, whether they be for information only
purposes or claims made, along with any payments made on those claims. We have been
clear that the claim has not [sic[ affected as [Mr Bs] NCD in any way on CUE but [UKI] isnt
responsible for how any prospective insurer interprets that data in calculating any premium
they wish to charge.
We handled a CUE amendment request on this file in March and the only error found was
that the claim was still open at the time, which was corrected.
although [Mr B] feels that the claim should show a £0 spend, that is not the case, as we do
need to record any payments made on that claim, and weve been very clear that this £50
was for redress in handling [Mr Bs] complaint.
Ive thought about UKIs reasoning for including £50 on the CUE entry in question. I think it
was wrong to do this. Any costs that showing on the database should relate directly to a
claim. There was no cost incurred by UKI in relation to this claim. Yes, it paid Mr B £50. But
this was because of its poor service. This is an entirely separate matter, regarding a
complaint, that was unrelated to the cost of the claim. When other insurers view this entry
they will see a cost associated with this claim. This gives a false impression of the
notification Mr B called to report in 2018. Although £50 is a relatively small amount, it may
impact on an insurers risk assessment and the level at which it sets its premium.
To put this right UKI should amend the CUE record to show a £0 spend relating to this claim.
It should also provide a letter to Mr B that he can show to his current insurers, that confirms
the entry for £50 was made in error. Mr B can then discuss any premium refund that may be
due with his insurer(s) using this information.
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr B. UKIs mistake has meant hes had to
spend time, and make a considerable effort, to show it recorded incorrect information on the
CUE database. He shouldnt have had to do this. This mustve been frustrating and has
caused him inconvenience. In summary I dont think UKI treated Mr B fairly and in these
circumstances, to acknowledge the impact this had, I think it should pay him £150
compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and UKI should:
pay Mr B £150 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him; andcorrect the CUE entry to show £0 spend relating to the claim; and
provide a letter to Mr B that confirms the CUE entry showing a claim spend for £50
was a mistake.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI says its understanding is that compensation, unless excessive, could be added to the 
claim. It says the CUE record shows the claim status as Notify and that Mr Bs NCD was 
allowed. It thinks itll be clear to another insurer that it didnt proceed with the claim. 
Mr B responded to say he agreed with my provisional decision. He says he remained with 
UKI for his motor insurance, so the letter I mentioned wont be of use. He also comments on 
the cheaper insurance he couldnt benefit from due to the incorrect CUE entry.
Mr B says the £150 compensation I set out in my provisional decision fairly compensates 
him for the difference in cost between UKIs premium and the cheaper insurance he was 
quoted. Mr Bs final point is that the industry databases can be manipulated by insurers to 
tie low risk customers to their policies.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about UKIs comments that CUE records can include compensation 
paid in relation to a claim. 
Ive reviewed the updated best practice guide from CUE when considering this point. But I 
think what I said in my provisional decision is fair. This is supported by the guidance. 
Compensation payments, such as that paid to Mr B, arent expected to be recorded on CUE 
as they arent considered a claim cost.
Regardless of the notify status, and the allowed NCB, I remain of the view that the 
compensation payment shouldnt be recorded against the claim.  
I note Mr Bs reference to the letter I said UKI should write, wont be of use to him. Ill remove 
this from my final decision. 
Mr Bs remaining comments dont warrant a change to my provisional decision. As hes said 
in his email, my role here is to consider his complaint. We dont have the powers to tell the 
industry how its businesses should operate. This is the role of the industry regulator. We do 
share the insights obtained through our work, with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But as Mr B alludes to in his email, I cant comment further on the wider issues he has 
mentioned.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. U K Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr B £150 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him; and
correct the CUE entry to show £0 spend relating to the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman