DRN-3042413
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy an application for Van Insurance that he made through Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) was cancelled due to incorrect information being 
provided on the online application. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Adrian Flux is a broker and therefore it was only responsible for sending information 
between Mr I and the Insurer.
Several items of information Mr I gave on his online van insurance application form 
were incorrect. Including ownership and claim information. Adrian Flux sent Mr I a 
copy of the information he had submitted for him to check. 
When Mr I called to give Adrian Flux the correct information, it passed this on to the 
insurer as I would have expected it to. The insurer notified Adrian Flux it wouldnt 
continue to provide cover to Mr I based on the correct information. Adrian Flux then 
passed this information on to Mr I and confirmed in writing his policy had been 
cancelled. 
Mr I has said the application pre populated certain parts and he doesnt think it is fair 
his application has been declined as he didnt purposefully provide incorrect 
information. While I appreciate this may have been the case, Mr I had a responsibility 
to provide a fair presentation of the risk he wanted cover for and to check the 
answers he had provided before submitting the application. 
Based on the above facts, I dont think Adrian Flux has done anything wrong in the 
way it handled Mr Is application
For the above reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Is complaint against Adrian Flux Insurance 
Services Group.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman