DRN-2115702
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy because he says that Commitments Protection Ltd (CPL) mis-sold him an 
income protection policy. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr P was sold an income protection policy which paid a monthly benefit if Mr P was 
unable to work due to a range of circumstances including accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Mr P explained that the policy was introduced to him by a friend at his sports 
club who sold the policies to a number of members of the club. The advisor was acting on 
behalf of CPL. 
Mr P explained he cant read or write and so relied on what he was told about the policy. 
More recently Mr P tried to claim on the policy and was told that it didnt cover broken fingers 
and there was a 30 day waiting period before he could claim. He says this wasnt explained 
to him at the time of the sale despite him asking a number of questions about what the policy 
did and didnt cover.
Mr P complained to CPL who said that Mr P had been sent all the information about the 
policy after the sale. Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and upheld Mr Ps complaint. He didnt think CPL had done enough to 
explain what the policy did and didnt cover given that he couldnt read or write. He thought 
Mr P had relied on the information given during the sales pitch and the policy had been mis-
sold. He recommended the premiums were refunded to Mr P and that 8% simple interest 
was added.
Mr P accepted the investigators findings. CPL didnt and asked an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. They suggested it was unusual for someone who is allegedly illiterate to have 
an email address and that Mr P could have asked his partner or a friend to read the 
documents emailed to him. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CPL didnt provide Mr P with advice about this policy. So, in line with the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines they had to make sure he had enough information about the policy to 
decide if the policy was right for him. Im upholding Mr Ps complaint because: 
The policy had a thirty-day waiting period and didnt cover fractures for fingers, toes 
or the nose. Mr P was a member of a sports club involving a contact sport, and one 
in which its likely fingers, toes or noses could easily be fractured. Mr Ps job also 
relied on using his hands. So, I can understand why hes likely to have wanted to 
have had cover for being unable to work in the event of an injury of this nature 
Mr P has given a detailed account of what happened during the sales process, 
including where it took place and the name of the advisor who sold the policy. CPL 
hasnt suggested that any of that information is incorrect. Ive found that Mr Ps 
version of events has been consistent and credible
I think its most likely, based on the evidence Ive been presented with, that the sale 
of the policy took place in a very informal setting. Mr P has explained that he knew 
the advisor through the sports club. The sale was introduced via the sports club and 
concluded in the advisors home with other club members present which persuades 
me that this was quite an informal, and somewhat unusual, sales process
Im not satisfied the significant limitations were clearly explained during the sale, 
even though it was non-advised. Id have expected CPL to take appropriate steps to 
ensure Mr P had enough information about the policy to decide if it was right for him 
and the advisor to take adequate steps to ensure Mr P had access to the relevant 
information, bearing in mind that he couldnt read or write
CPL hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the key features 
and limitations were clearly explained, including the information about the waiting 
time and the limitations for accidents involving fractures to the fingers, toes and 
nose. I think these are features of the policy which are likely to have been important 
to Mr P given his specific circumstances. I think that if hed been made properly 
aware of these limitations hes unlikely to have taken this policy out as hed have 
concluded it didnt meet his needs given his job and his involvement in a contact 
sport
Although Mr P was sent information after the sale Im satisfied Mr P placed more 
weight on what he was told about the policy in a setting where he was placing his 
trust and confidence in the seller of the policy. So, this doesnt change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint 
CPL says its unusual for someone who is illiterate to have an email address, 
although theyve provided no meaningful basis for this assertion. Most people do 
have an email address which is often needed for various administrative reasons. So, 
I dont think it automatically follows that simply because Mr P has an email address it 
means that his account of what happened isnt credible. 
 
Putting things right
CPL needs to put things right by:
Refunding the premiums Mr P paid in full plus 8% simple interest from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement. 
If CPL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Commitments Protection Ltd and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman