DRN-3416044
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the manner in which Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) 
paid the death benefit under her husbands policy.
What happened
Mrs E said that Aegon refused any flexibility about alternative forms of payment of the death 
benefit payment due from her husbands policy. She said this was very disadvantageous for 
her form a tax perspective.
Aegon said Mr E took out a section 32 plan in 2011. It said the plan was set up before the 
introduction of pension freedoms and wasnt designed to offer flexi access drawdown. It said 
a lump sum was the only option it was able to offer in settlement of the death benefits. The 
policy terms made this clear in section 6 Part 1(2) on page 12. Aegon said the death benefit 
payment was considered a discretionary payment and does not form part of the estate. It, as 
scheme administrators decided on the beneficiary for the death benefit lump sum.
Mrs E didnt want to receive the payment as a lump sum but wanted flexi access drawdown. 
It said the pension freedoms introduced in 2015 were optional and it opted not to change its 
rules. This was a business decision which it was fully entitled to make. It wouldnt amend the 
rules to allow this, and therefore the only option was a lump sum payment. It appreciated this 
might mean Mrs E faced a large tax liability but that wasnt something it would take into 
consideration.
The investigator didnt think Aegon needed to take any action. He considered whether 
Aegon had a duty of offer Mrs E an alternative to the lump sum death benefit particularly in 
the light of the 2015 pension freedoms. He didnt think it was reasonable for Aegon to 
change its policy terms for the benefit of an individual as this could set a precedent and be 
an expensive administrative burden. The freedoms didnt require providers to change their 
policies and Aegon did not do so for this policy. It could therefore only pay the benefit in 
lump sum form. He thought this was fair.
Mrs E didnt agree. She said that Aegon had not explained why it couldnt pay the benefit as 
a widows pension annuity. While the terms were clear at the offset her husband would not 
have been able to have any influence and chosen another pension scheme. This policy was 
chosen by the trustees of the wound-up occupational pension scheme he had been a 
member of. It was their choice. Under the rules of the previous occupational scheme there 
would have been a spouses pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the adjudicator made his decision, Mrs E asked some further questions. I have set 
these out and the replies from Aegon for the sake of completeness.
Mrs E asked why the payment could not be made as a widows pension annuity. Aegon 
responded and referred to the original policy documents and said that as there was no 
balance after payment of the maximum death benefit lump sum this would not apply. It could 
only ever have paid out a lump sum under the policy terms.
Mrs E made further comments to the effect that she thought the original pension that the 
policy had secured would have offered a spouses pension especially if it included a GMP. 
She also wanted to know why Aegon decided not to apply section 273B of the Finance Act 
2004 (as modified).
I asked Aegon these questions. It said that it did not have copies of the correspondence from 
the original ceding scheme at the time Mr Es plan was set up. However its own records 
showed there was no Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) attached to the plan. Nor was 
there any built-in widows or spouses benefit and this was not something they would expect 
to find where there was no GMP. I have no reason to question this evidence and have not 
been presented with evidence to show that Mr Es employment was contracted-out and at a 
time such that he would have accrued a GMP for his service.
With respect to the pension freedoms introduced under section 273B Finance Act 2015, 
Aegon said these were permissive and not compulsory. As a business it had decided not to 
add these. I cannot tell Aegon how to run its business and it is open to it to it whether it 
decides to adopt the permissive options. 
In order to make any award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience I must first 
decide whether Aegon has made a mistake.
I appreciate that the method of payment to Mrs E has had adverse tax consequence for her. 
But based on the information presented, it seems that the benefit has been paid in 
accordance with the policy terms and therefore Aegon has not done anything wrong. For 
those reasons I will not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman