DRN-2082003
The complaint
Mr I says Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wrongly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Is direct debit payment failed on 23 March 2020 and again a week later. Although he was 
abroad at the time, LV contacted him about the situation by text message and email. It sent 
Mr I a default notice on 30 March 2020 saying the policy would be cancelled if payment 
wasnt made within 14 days. It wrote to him again on 6 April 2020 stating that the policy 
would end in seven days time. Mr I says he told LV he was abroad, and that it could take the 
money from his account. LV said payment must be made by phone. It gave Mr I an 
international number to call. As payment wasnt made, the policy was cancelled. 
Mr I said hed explained the situation to LV from 30 March 2020 onwards. He said a friend 
had called it on 15 April 2020 and LV had refused to take a payment at that point, but it took 
a premium payment from his account on 20 April 2020. He said the cancellation had affected 
his no claims discount (NCD) and future premiums. 
LV said that Mr Is payment had failed twice in December 2019, so a default notice was sent 
to him. It said his payments also failed on the due dates in January and February 2020 but 
were made at the second attempt. LV said it replied to the email Mr I sent on 6 April 2020, 
but his previous emails went into a mailbox that isnt monitored. It said hed have received 
emails advising him of that. LV said Mr Is friend had only called it on the day after the policy 
was cancelled, when it was too late to make a payment to keep the policy running. 
Mr I wasnt happy with LVs response, so he complained to us. He said he was out of the 
country when the cancellation took place and was delayed abroad due to Covid-19 
restrictions. He said hed left his bank card in the UK, so he couldnt pay over the phone. He 
said at the time, the world was shut down, but that LV had taken no notice of that. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Is complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said LV had acted in line with the terms of the policy. He said it gave Mr I due notice of the 
sum that was in default and of the policys cancellation. He thought it was reasonable for LV 
to take a payment in April 2020, as Mr I owed the instalments for March and April 2020 and  
had used all but three days of the policys annual cover. He thought it was also fair for LV to 
make a charge for cancellation, in line with the policys terms. 
Mr I didnt think the investigator had considered that he was delayed abroad and that he 
didnt have a bank card with him. The investigator said LV had the right to cancel the policy 
within seven days of a missed payment (which in this case was 23 March 2020). But it didnt 
do so for 21 days. And he said it hadnt rushed to cancel on previous occasions, either. He 
didnt think it was LVs fault that the payment was missed in March 2020, or that Mr I had left 
his card at home. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I says he was due to fly back to the UK on 8 April 2020, but that due to Covid-19 the 
flights were cancelled. Mr I sent us evidence of cancelled flights, although the travel date on 
the document was shown as 12 March 2020, and the flights were from the UK to Mr Is 
destination. So that didnt assist him. Mr I also provided evidence that he emailed an airline 
on 8 April 2020 whilst abroad to get new flights back to the UK.
It does appear that Mr I had to spend longer abroad than expected. That may have been as 
a result of Covid-19, but theres no direct evidence of it. And Im not sure that Mr Is delayed 
return makes a difference to the situation in this case anyway. 
Mr I planned to be abroad in March 2020. Before leaving, he knew that a payment for his 
insurance policy was due on 23 March 2020. So I think it was for Mr I to ensure that the 
payment would be made. The cancellation process started because there were insufficient 
funds in his account to cover the premium, not only on the due date, but also a week later. 
Mr I says the reason for the shortfall in funds was the late payment of his wages into his 
bank account in March 2020, due to Covid-19. The UK lockdown only began in the last week 
of March 2020, and I dont think Mr I has shown that it was the cause of the lack of funds in 
his account. His payments had failed on the due date in the previous three months, so it 
seems there was a more general issue with insufficient funds. And LVs attempt to take a 
late payment from the account in March 2020 also failed. 
Mr I had the chance to make the payment by other means right up to the cancellation date. 
He says he had no other way of paying LV. In that situation, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for LV to cancel the policy in April 2020. The payment was due in March, and it had given  
due notice to Mr I, and given him extra time to make arrangements to pay. 
I think it was reasonable for LV to expect a payment by card over the phone, given that two 
unsuccessful attempts had been made to debit Mr Is account, and the cancellation date was 
looming. Only after the cancellation took place did someone call LV to make a payment on 
Mr Is behalf. It isnt clear why he didnt make use of that option earlier, as it could have 
resolved the matter. But the policy had already ended by that point. 
Once the policy was cancelled, LV had the right to charge a cancellation fee, in line with the 
policys terms. And I dont think it was unfair for it to take a payment in April 2020 through the 
direct debit that was still in place, as Mr I owed LV for cover for March and April 2020. As he 
hadnt quite completed the full policy year prior to the cancellation, I think it was reasonable 
for LV not to grant Mr I the years NCD. That may have made some difference to his future 
premiums, but the cancellation is likely to have had more effect, and I think Mr I was 
responsible for that.  
       
As I dont think Mr I has shown that LV acted unreasonably, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman