DRN-2924228
The complaint
C, a limited company, represented by Mrs B, is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund 
money it lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
C regularly pays a supplier in another country. Unfortunately for C, a fraudster compromised 
the suppliers email account. The fraudster, by corresponding with both C and the supplier, 
tricked C into sending several payments to new accounts  which were actually controlled 
by the fraudster. 
In total C made five payments, though one was unsuccessful and was returned to C. The 
four successful payments were:
- 22 August 2019 - £7,582.72 to payee 1
- 4 September 2019 - £57,005.82 to payee 1
- 23 September 2019 - £7,330.13 to payee 2
- 1 October 2019 - £85,367.14 to payee 2
On 7 October 2019, the supplier contacted C to advise that expected payments had not 
been received. Cs company secretary, Mrs P, contacted HSBC twice that afternoon. 
In the first call, Mrs P spoke to an HSBC advisor and asked whether the payment had 
reached its destination. The advisor wasnt sure so put Mrs P on hold and spoke to another 
advisor. They said that they could see that the payment had gone to HSBC in the U.S. but 
couldnt say where the payment was without a reference number from them. They also said 
international payments usually take five to six days to clear. When the first advisor spoke to 
Mrs P again they said they believed the payment was with HSBC in the U.S. and that it could 
be recalled. Mrs P was then passed through to another team. A recording of that 
conversation is not available but, according to a transcript provided to our service, an HSBC 
advisor agreed to attempt to recall the payment and said I need to inform you that we 
cannot give a guarantee about the time scales and when the funds will be returned back to 
you. 
Mrs P called again later that afternoon to report the other three transactions as fraudulent 
and ask that they be recalled. 
Over the next few weeks C contacted HSBC again. HSBC said that the final payment had, in 
fact, been paid on 2 October 2019 and, when C contacted them, wasnt under their control.
On 10 October 2019, HSBC sent a message to HSBC in the U.S. (theyd acted as one of the 
intermediary banks for the final payment) asking for the final payment to be recalled. A 
response was received from HSBC in the U.S. on 28 October 2019. It passed on a message 
it had received from another intermediary bank that it, in turn, had been advised by the 
credit party that the payment had been effected on 2 October 2019 and that C should 
contact the beneficiary to resolve the matter directly. 
Further messages were sent by HSBC during 2019 and 2020 advising the receiving banks 
that the payments were fraudulent and asking for any funds to be returned. However, HSBC 
have not received any further substantive replies.
On 17 December 2019 HSBC wrote to C with their final response. It acknowledged that the 
language used by one of the advisers suggested the last payment would, rather than might, 
be returned. To acknowledge this they provided a gift hamper to C.
C, through its director Mr P, was unhappy with the response  still feeling that HSBC had not 
adequately addressed why theyd been told the last payment could be recalled.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had made a 
mistake by not intervening to stop the payments and were satisfied that, contrary to the 
advisors suggestion, HSBC couldnt have done anything else to recover the payments. They 
accepted that the language used by HSBC in some of the calls was misleading but thought 
HSBC had already done enough to put this right.
Mr P disagreed and made a series of further submissions. Although he appeared to accept 
the loss of the first three payments, he remained unhappy HSBC had not been forthcoming 
about the contents of the call on 7 October 2019 and that he had not had the chance to 
review call recordings, or the other evidence HSBC relied on, in full.
Mrs B, in advance of our final decision also made some further submissions. In summary, 
she said:
- There was a delay of three days between the scam being reported and HSBCs 
attempt to recall the money. 
- When they did request a recall of the monies, they sent the message to the receiving 
bank, rather than HSBC in the U.S. where the monies were said to be.
- The telephone conversations make it quite clear that HSBCs advisors considered it 
possible to return the payment. If it hadnt been possible to return Cs money, then 
HSBCs advisors would have simply said this.
- The conversation between HSBCs advisors suggests that international payments 
would take between five and six working days, but this had not been considered by 
the investigator.
- The messages received by HSBC do not, as the investigator has claimed, prove that 
the money reached its destination by 2 October 2019, they merely show the money 
travelling through the intermediary banks.
Overall, Mrs B was of the view that it must be assumed that the information provided to C in 
the first telephone call on 7 October 2019 was accurate and that by not taking any action for 
three days HSBC failed to stop the payment from reaching the beneficiary account. 
Mrs B has also made a number of comments about the investigation carried out by our 
investigator and the disclosure of evidence. However, it isnt my role to judge the quality of 
our investigation, only to give my decision based on whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. Im also satisfied that the transcript of the telephone conversation between 
HSBCs advisors is, as far as possible, an accurate reflection of that conversation and, 
therefore, C has been provided with all of the evidence that Ive relied on. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Though Mrs Bs arguments are mostly in relation to HSBCs actions after the payments were 
made, Ill first consider whether HSBC ought to have done more before allowing the 
payments to leave Cs account. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to C, particularly given the amount of money involved. 
But having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave Cs account. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
C when it made a transfer to a fraudster and when it reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
C has accepted that the payments were authorised by it. Because of this, HSBC had an 
obligation to follow its instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I 
consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions.
Ive reviewed Cs account statements for the six months before the scam took place. The 
account consistently had a considerable balance  significantly in excess of the amount of the fraudulent payments which took place. As might be expected from a business account, 
there was frequent activity on it  with payments made to both what appear to be existing 
and new payees.
Payments in the tens of thousands are not infrequent, though the majority go to an existing 
payee  the supplier that was later impersonated by fraudsters. A payment in June 2019 to 
that supplier was of a similar amount to the largest fraudulent transaction.
The first transaction to each fraudulent beneficiary clearly wouldnt have stood out as being 
unusual  they were both less than £10,000. The second payments were much larger and 
the only really comparable transactions were the payments C made to its genuine supplier. 
But, importantly (and probably by design) the larger payments would have appeared to go to 
existing payees, making them less likely to indicate that C was at risk of financial harm.
Overall, I cant fairly say that HSBC should have intervened to stop these payments from 
taking place. 
Ive gone onto consider whether HSBC could or should have done more to recover the 
payments once they were made aware of the scam. 
Its first important to say that it can be more difficult for a bank to recover payments that have 
been made to international beneficiaries  even if the scam is brought to the attention of the 
bank quickly. Here, unsurprisingly given the circumstances, C wasnt aware of the scam until 
a number of days after the final payment. In the U.K. banks have agreed, where appropriate, 
to return funds that have been received as a result of fraud. Requests to recover funds which 
have been sent internationally often rely on the co-operation of the receiving bank and even 
the receiving account holder.
Ive seen the messages which HSBC sent to recall the payment, theres little indication that 
the payment would be returned  even if it remained in the bank account of the beneficiary 
when the fraud was reported. It appears HSBC did wait until 10 October 2019 to try and 
recall the payment  but theres little reason to think earlier contact would have made any 
difference. 
I dont think Mrs B disputes that, if the last payment had in fact reached its destination, there 
would be little chance of recovering it. Rather, her contention is that the final payment may 
have remained under HSBCs control on 7 October 2019 and, consequently, could have 
been returned to C.
Im afraid, while I understand why C has been given this impression, the evidence Ive seen 
does not support this conclusion. Most importantly and as set out in the background to this 
complaint, a response received from the bank which received the final payment says it 
effected the payment on 2 October 2019. Its hard to understand this message to mean 
anything other than the payment was completed and credited to their customers account on 
2 October 2019, not on or after 7 October 2019.
I think its important to breakdown the contents of that message. My reading of it is as 
follows:
- The message was sent to HSBC in the U.S. and the response is received from them.
- They say they have been in contact with another intermediary bank
- That intermediary bank say they have been advised by the creditparty (which can 
reasonably only mean the bank which received the funds).- The message from the credit party says the payment was effected on 2 October 
2019.
I dont think the message can be read to mean that the payment was under the control of 
HSBC beyond 2 October 2019 and it strongly suggests it had reached its ultimate 
destination. There is also another piece of evidence that supports this conclusion. Another 
document (which Mrs B has been provided with) appears to show that the payment left 
HSBC UK at 11.11am on 1 October 2019, went through HSBC in the U.S. at 11.12am, then 
through the other intermediary at 11:16am and finally reached its destination at 3:43am on 2 
October 2019. The two pieces of evidence are consistent and persuade me that the funds 
did reach their destination on 2 October 2019.
The question of why Mrs P was advised differently isnt one that has a satisfactory answer.  
The advisor that spoke to Mrs P was not told the payment was in the U.S.  only that it might 
be. While the advisor didnt say that the money was definitely still with HSBC in the U.S., he 
strongly implied that it was, but that did not accurately reflect what hed been told. And, when 
the advisors said that the payment could be recalled, they appear to have done so without a 
full understanding of where it was.
I note Mrs Bs comments about the timescales of an international payment. But, I dont think 
the advisor is saying that an international payment would necessarily take that long. Indeed, 
HSBCs published timescales for this type of payment (which dont appear to have 
significantly changed since 2019) say it could take up to four working days (though they 
state a payment might take longer in some circumstances). Its also apparent from the 
conversation that the first advisor doesnt understand the context of the question being 
asked. This is evident from his comment to Mrs P  Good news the payment has debited 
your account. He seems to think the query is about how long the payment might take to 
reach its destination, rather than about a scam. This is also reflected in the second advisor 
suggesting that C should wait a couple of days and check with the beneficiary. I think all the 
second advisor is saying here is that the payment wasnt at a point where C should be 
concerned that it hadnt gone through properly. He does not appear to be saying that the 
payment couldnt have credited the beneficiary account at that point. 
I understand why Mrs P came away from the call with the impression she did. But, Im afraid, 
Im persuaded that the final payment had already credited the beneficiary account by the 
time Mrs P made the call. Consequently, any delay in contacting the beneficiary banks about 
the payments is very unlikely to have made a difference to whether the money could be 
recovered. 
As C is a limited company, Im unable to make an award for its distress  though I do 
recognise that the misleading information provided by HSBC has caused some. And, the 
only inconvenience caused has seemingly been in having to pursue this complaint, which 
also isnt something that I can make an award for. So, while I know this will be disappointing 
for C, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman