DRN-2489264
The complaint
Mrs C, through her claims management company (CMC), has complained about the 
suitability of a whole of life plan thats was sold to her by Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as 
Allied Dunbar Assurance plc (Zurich).
What happened
Mrs C took the policy out in May 1995. At the time of the sale she was married and had one 
dependent child. The fact find completed at the time of the sale recorded that she wanted to 
provide some protection for her family in the event of her death. There is a hand-written note 
which states in the event of her death she wanted to provide financial protection for her 
daughter to be brought up. There were also notes that recorded she wanted to ensure the 
mortgage was paid off and to supplement existing cover.
Mrs C was sold an Adaptable Life plan which provided life protection for her for the whole of 
her life. The initial sum assured was just over £42,000 with a premium of £25 per month. 
She surrendered the policy in 2002 and received just under £600.
The CMC has said the policy was unsuitable for her because:
She didnt need a whole of life plan to cover inheritance tax liability.
Mrs C wanted to protect her family until they were independent, or the mortgage had 
been paid off.
She didnt want a savings plan that was linked to life cover.
She didnt want to take any risks with her savings.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was satisfied that given Mrs Cs recorded objectives from the time of the sale the whole of 
life plan was suitable for her.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment and provided the following additional comments:
Mrs C already had an endowment policy in place which supports the fact the whole of 
life policy was unsuitable.
The recorded note in the fact find stating Mrs C wanted cover for her daughter to 
bring her up suggests cover was only needed until her daughter was independent  
so only for a specific time frame.
The investment element added to the costs of this plan and the initial premiums 
exceeded the amount Mrs C recorded at the time as being affordable.
The investigator considered the additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been brought to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The fact find mentioned above contains details about Mrs Cs objectives for taking out the 
policy. Having considered these carefully my view is that Mrs Cs overriding need was to 
provide financial protection for her family, especially her daughter, in the event of her death. 
I appreciate there was one mention of her wanting the mortgage to be repaid but there are 
numerous mentions of financial protection on death, so I think this was the overwhelming 
objective. There also isnt any mention throughout the point of sale documents of any 
specific term for which she wanted the protection to last other than until she died. So in light 
of this, and not knowing when Mrs C might pass away, I dont think her being sold a whole of 
life policy was unreasonable. Further to this I know the CMC feels the comment of providing 
protection for bringing up her daughter is evidence that Mrs C wanted a term assurance 
policy, but I am not persuaded by this. This is a vague comment and as there is no mention 
of a specific terms along with many details about proving protection on death, I dont think 
that term assurance was something that met Mrs Cs objectives at the time of the sale.
While the CMC feels the endowment policy meant the whole of life policy wasnt suitable the 
two policies are very different. The endowment policy was already in place and it was 
recorded Mrs C wanted to add to her already existing cover. Also, the endowment policy 
would have had a set term so while it would have paid out upon Mrs Cs death, if she died 
outside of that term no payment would be made. So because of this I think the whole of life 
policy was really the only policy available at the time that met Mrs Cs specified needs of 
providing a payment to her family upon her death, whenever that might be. And while 
I appreciate it was at a slightly higher cost than she initially wanted I think its likely the small 
increase wasnt too much of a problem for her given it was all documented in the paperwork 
and she would have had the chance to disagree with this at the time had she felt it was 
unaffordable for her.
I know the CMC has mentioned Mrs C didnt need this policy for inheritance tax protection 
but I cant see anything in the point of sale documents that mentions this so I dont think this 
is why this policy was sold. As already mentioned, it seems that the priority for Mrs C was to 
provide financial security for her family if she died.
Its also worth pointing out in light of the CMCs other comments that the aim of any whole of 
life policy is to provide life protection. It should never be sold as a savings vehicle and I dont 
think it was in this case. The nature of these policies is that there is an investment element 
which grows to help the policy meet its stated death benefit without the need for constant 
increase of premiums. While this doesnt always remain the case the investment element is 
there to help the policy and its value, but it isnt putting the policy holder at any investment 
risk.
Overall, I am more persuaded that Mrs Cs need for this policy was borne out of her wish to 
provide financial protection for her family in the event of her death and as that wasnt known, 
a policy that provided this protection for the entirety of her life seems to me to be the most 
suitable. And I am not satisfied that the points the CMC has raised are enough for me to 
decide a different policy should have been sold to Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman