DRN-3569393
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Towergate Financial (East) Limited concerning 
transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension plan (PPP) and later to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) . He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ds been helped by professional representatives. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ds.
Provisional decision 
On 16 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. For ease Ive copied the relevant extracts 
below. I said:
What happened
Mr D had been a member of his previous employers DB occupational pension scheme. He 
stopped working for that employer in 1993. In 2007 Mr Ds former employer offered 
enhanced additional payments to scheme members if they chose to transfer out of the 
scheme. The employer engaged a firm of financial advisers to advise the schemes 
members about the options available to them. Towergate acquired that advising firm in 2009 
and as such it now has responsibility for the advice provided. For ease of reading I will refer 
to the advising firm as Towergate in this decision.
Mr D confirmed, in May 2007, he would like Towergate to give him independent advice about 
his transfer options. Towergate met with Mr D on 12 May 2007 and completed a fact-find to 
gather information about his circumstances. Towergate recorded that Mr D was 49 years old 
and planned to retire at 65. His current income met his outgoings and he had a surplus of 
around £160 a month. He had assets, not including his mortgaged home, of around 
£170,000. He had been paying into his current employers pension scheme for around nine 
years though the value of that pension wasnt known.
Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious.
Towergate recorded that the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of Mr Ds DB scheme 
pension was £19,877. But that his former employer was offering an additional payment 
incentive of £18,193, which would increase the CETV to £38,071, if he were to transfer out 
of the DB scheme. The additional payment could be taken as a taxable lump sum 
immediately.
Towergate also had access to two pension transfer value analysis reports which included 
cashflow models comparing how an alternative pension plan was likely to perform against 
the guaranteed benefits of Mr Ds DB scheme. The first report showed the comparison 
between Mr D investing the full, enhanced, CETV of £38,071 into a PPP. The second report 
compared the potential returns at retirement if Mr D only reinvested the lower sum of 
£19,877 and took the additional payment as a lump sum.
On 22 May 2007 Towergate gave Mr D a copy of its pension transfer suitability report. Its 
recommendation was that Mr D should not transfer out of the DB scheme.
Under a heading of objectives near the start of the report, Towergate recorded:
Objectives
While this report needs to be read in full, in summary you wish to transfer your benefits away 
from the [DB] Scheme for the following reasons:
Tax Free cash
You could POTENTIALLY receive greater tax free cash at normal retirement age, although 
there are no guarantees that this will be the case.
Spouses/Dependents pension
You could POTENTIALLY increase the spouses and/or dependents pension payable upon 
death.
Security of the pension
While there is no reason to doubt the financial strength and solvency of the [DB] scheme, 
you wish to transfer out so that you have more control over your pension fund. However, 
there are no guarantees that by moving you will be more secure or better off and you will be 
losing the value of the employer covenant.
TRANSFERRING AND TAKING CASH
You wish to transfer and take the Additional Payment being offered as a cash payment to 
you (as opposed to transferring the Additional Payment into another registered pension 
scheme, even though you have been made aware that this is a lower payment and will be 
reduced by tax and National Insurance. You wish to use this for the following reason: 
You stated that you and your partner have more than enough security to see you through 
retirement and that you wish to take the additional payment as cash now, as opposed to 
adding to your already healthy retirement funds.
The suitability report added that the growth rate required to meet the benefits of Mr Ds 
DB scheme (which is known as the critical yield) was 7.2%. It said given that critical yield 
and Mr Ds attitude to risk, an alternative plan was unlikely to match the benefits of his 
DB scheme. But it also said that Mr D had told it that he had decided to go against that 
advice and he had asked Towergate to make a recommendation to reinvest his pension 
fund. Towergate recommended that Mr D should invest the full CETV of £38,071 into a PPP. 
But it noted that Mr D had already decided to take the additional payment as a lump sum 
immediately. The additional payment figure after deducting tax and national insurance was 
around £11,984. Towergate repeated that this was against its recommendation.
Four days later, 26 May 2007 Mr D signed documents confirming he wanted to proceed with 
the transfer. At some point, he also gave Towergate an undated handwritten letter saying 
that he was aware he was going against its advice but wanted to take the additional payment 
as cash. He said that he and his family had made an informed decision as he felt that he had more than enough security to see him through retirement. Also on Towergates file is 
an undated typed letter, signed by Mr D, which says that hed read Towergates suitability 
letter and the cashflow illustrations which showed the potential returns of transferring both 
with and without the additional payment moving to a PPP. The letter said that the difference 
between the two showed that Mr D would be worse off in retirement but nevertheless wanted 
to take the additional payment as a lump sum.
Towergate arranged for the transfer out of Mr Ds DB scheme with the net additional 
payment of around £11,984 paid directly to Mr D and the balance transferred into a PPP.
In July 2008 Mr D spoke with Towergate again. It arranged for the transfer of his pension 
fund from his PPP to a SIPP. That allowed Mr D to take £8,063 from his pension fund in tax 
free cash (TFC), the remaining balance being accessible from a drawdown plan.
Mr D complained in 2020 to Towergate about the suitability of the transfer advice because, 
amongst other things he said that Towergate:
Gave negligent advice to transfer his DB scheme pension to a PPP.
Treated Mr D as an insistent client without explaining what that meant.
Provided confusing, contradictory and misleading information in its suitability report.
Advised Mr D not to transfer from his DB scheme and then made a recommendation 
to transfer to a PPP.
Didnt properly find out what Mr Ds investment objectives were.
Didnt explain to Mr D the implications of transferring out of the DB scheme.
Didnt establish Mr Ds financial situation and capacity for loss.
Made a recommendation that wasnt in line with Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Didnt make Mr D aware of the guaranteed benefits he would be giving up.
Made a recommendation despite the high critical yield.
Didnt act in line with the regulators guidance.
Didnt make the fees for the new pension plan clear.
Towergate didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it had identified areas where its advice 
could have been improved. Most importantly that it hadn't made it clear to Mr D that his DB 
scheme would have allowed him to take unreduced benefits at age 60, which would have 
been beneficial for him. It added that:
It had advised Mr D not to transfer out of his DB scheme because the critical yield 
was too high given Mr Ds attitude to risk and the DB scheme benefits were better 
than a personal plan.
Mr D gave it a handwritten letter explaining why he wanted to go against Towergates 
advice because he had more than enough security to see us through retirement".
It was satisfied that Mr D knew he was acting against Towergates advice and that he 
had enough information to make an informed decision.
It felt that explaining further to Mr D about the option of taking his DB benefits at 60 
was unlikely to have outweighed his motivation to take the cash incentive to transfer 
out of the DB scheme.
Although it hadn't explicitly explained what an insistent client was, Towergate was 
satisfied that Mr D knew he was acting against its advice.
It had correctly determined Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Its suitability report provided a clear forecast of the benefits Mr D would lose, 
including death benefits, by transferring out of the DB scheme.
It had given Mr D an illustration from the recommended PPP provider which clearly 
set out the applicable fees.Towergate concluded that Mr D wasnt in a worse position because some of its advice could 
have been clearer, as it felt Mr D would have transferred out of the scheme anyway.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Towergate initially disputed that we had 
jurisdiction to look at it. But after our investigator explained why she thought it was a decision 
we had the power to look at, Towergate withdrew its objections.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Towergate had advised Mr D 
not to transfer out of the DB scheme; that he had provided a handwritten letter to explain 
why he wished to go against that advice; and that he understood the consequences of doing 
so. She felt that, even if Towergate had refused to transact the transfer, the incentive of the 
large additional payment on offer would have been enough motivation for Mr D to go ahead 
with the transfer anyway. So she didnt think Towergate was responsible for any losses Mr D 
suffered as a result of the transfer.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, amongst other things, that:
As his letters are undated and Towergate is uncertain when he signed them, that 
doesn't accord with the regulators guidance that a firm can only consider a client 
insistent after advice has been given.
Towergate had coached him in what to say in his handwritten letter and he didnt 
understand the guarantees he would lose.
Towergate had told him that if he wrote the letter the transfer would be smoother.
Towergate didnt use the term insistent client nor tell him what it meant.
The large additional payment did appeal to him but if Towergate had explained the 
guarantees he would lose he wouldnt have been so tempted to transfer.
Towergate told him that the law was changing and he needed to act urgently to 
access his TFC and that Towergate gave him an ultimatum.
The declaration he signed going against Towergates advice on 26 May 2007 was 
pre-typed and he didnt understand its implications.
When completing Towergates questionnaire on 12 May 2007, hed said that he didnt 
think it was appropriate to his situation as, at that time Towergate hadn't provided 
enough information for him to make an informed decision.
In the same questionnaire Mr D had said that he didnt understand the guarantees or 
benefits he would lose by transferring to an alternative pension provider.
The investigator replied. She said:
Shed seen no evidence that Towergate gave Mr D an ultimatum.
The evidence shed seen showed that Towergate informed Mr D of the risks of 
transferring but he chose to proceed.
She understood that the declaration of 26 May 2007 wasnt in Mr Ds own words and 
that Towergate had confirmed that its adviser provided a typed template letter. But 
Mr D had provided his own letter, which she believed was Mr Ds own words and 
signed by him. So she was satisfied he was an insistent client.
Mr D had said that he didnt feel that Towergates questionnaire was appropriate and 
had indicated that he didnt know what benefits and guarantees he would be losing 
because he made those remarks before Towergate had given him advice.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr D and Towergate have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying 
to it. And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at 
the heart of Mr Ds complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulators position
The FCA says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption 
for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. In this case Towergate considered 
two transfer value analysis reports which indicated that, given Mr Ds attitude to risk, he was 
unlikely to be better off than if he remained in the scheme. And it advised Mr D against 
making the transfer. But it noted that he wanted to go ahead anyway. Where a consumer 
decides to proceed with an investment against a financial adviser's advice then the 
consumer is known as an insistent client, although I note Towergate didnt ever actually 
use that term in its correspondence with Mr D.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook which required 
Towergate to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client. In addition, COBS required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mr D had to have 
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Did Towergate give suitable advice?
While Towergates communication with Mr D did set out that its recommendation for him was 
not to proceed with the transfer, I think this was seriously flawed by the process it followed in 
offering advice and also in the statements made in its suitability report. For example under 
the heading of objectives Towergate has recorded this:
While this report needs to be read in full, in summary you wish to transfer your benefits 
away from the [DB] Scheme.
So its apparent from that comment that Towergate had previously discussed with Mr D what 
his options were before it gave him its suitability report. And, its on the basis of that 
undocumented discussion that Towergate says Mr D decided he wanted to go ahead with 
the transfer. And, as this was against Towergates recommendation it decided to treat Mr D 
as an insistent client. But at that point Towergate hadnt yet produced its suitability report. So 
any information it gave to Mr D, could only have been presented in a raw state, that is 
without the analysis contained within the suitability report. I find this seriously undermines 
the advice process. That's because I don't see how Towergate could expect Mr D to make 
an informed decision about going against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all 
the information he needed in order to make that decision. That is, it gave him some limited 
information relating to critical yields and expected him to make a determination that started him down the road of the insistent client process without giving him enough detail to 
reasonably make that decision.
A much clearer process would have been for Towergate to provide its advice and 
recommendations as a whole, taking into account Mr Ds objectives and attitude to risk. That 
advice should have considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the 
DB scheme together with the choice of pension and Mr Ds desire to take the additional 
payment as a lump sum immediately. Only then should Towergate have clearly set out in 
one document why transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Instead, 
its apparent that it first discussed the matter with him and while it recorded that its advice 
was not to transfer, it also told Mr D that it could arrange the transfer for him anyway and 
recommended a PPP for him to transfer to. So, alongside its recommendation not to 
transfer, it also told Mr D that he could take a large lump sum immediately. It was only later 
that it gave Mr D written information about the proposed alternatives in its suitability report, 
which was after Mr D had already said he wanted to transfer out of the scheme.
Also, under the list of Mr Ds objectives in its suitability report Towergate said that Mr D could 
POTENTIALLY  have access to higher TFC and also increased death benefits by 
transferring out of the DB scheme. But it doesn't make it clear that the transfer value reports 
show that this potential was only if Mr D transferred the full CETV  including the additional 
payment  to an alternative plan. That potential was lost if Mr D opted to take the additional 
premium in cash immediately. That is, unless Mr D transferred the full £38,071 to an 
alternative plan, he would almost certainly be worse off if he decided to transfer a lower 
some by taking the additional payment immediately. And given that Towergate was already 
aware that was Mr Ds intention, then I think it sent him mixed messages about what he 
could realistically achieve by transferring from the DB scheme. So I think Towergate should 
have been absolutely clear that by taking the additional payment as a cash lump sum and 
transferring out of the DB scheme, Mr D would almost certainly be worse off in retirement. It 
follows that I think its reference to potentially being better off by transferring out of the 
DB scheme was misleading.
Similarly, the suitability report said that, based on a combination of the critical yield of 7.2% 
and Mr Ds cautious attitude to risk Towergate recommended that he should not go ahead 
with the transfer. But the critical yield of 7.2% was the growth rate required if the full CETV of 
over £38,000 was reinvested in an alternate plan. That figure climbed to at least 10.2%, 
assuming Mr D took his TFC lump sum at retirement, if Mr D took the additional cash offered 
immediately and didnt reinvest it in an alternative plan. But Towergate didn't make this clear 
in its suitability report. So, again, I dont think the report gave Mr D all the information he 
needed in order to make an informed decision about transferring out of the DB scheme.
Further, while Towergate has recorded that Mr Ds objective was to take that additional 
payment straightaway, I've seen little evidence it discussed with Mr D in detail why he 
wanted to do that. That is what Mr D wanted to achieve by taking the additional payment. At 
that time it appears that Mr D could afford his outgoings with a surplus income left over each 
month; he wasnt in any arrears of his mortgage and had other assets. I've noted that the 
suitability report says that Mr D taking the additional payment as cash would allow him to 
repay debts and not have to make the repayments. But Towergate hasnt recorded what 
these debts were or if Mr D could have paid them off by some other method.
Towergate itself said that the critical yield was probably too high to be realistically achieved 
until Mr D retired and wanted access to his funds. So the prospect of an alternative 
arrangement not matching the scheme benefits in monetary terms, on the basis of 
reasonable assumptions, made it all the more important that the other reasons for 
transferring were sufficiently compelling. But Towergate didnt apparently explore this with 
Mr D. I dont see how Towergate could actually give Mr D suitable advice in respect of his objectives without knowing the basic facts about what he wanted the cash for. And Ive not 
seen evidence that Towergate effectively advised Mr D about the long-term nature of 
pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead.
Towergates role was to discern what Mr Ds wants and needs were and why Mr D wanted to 
transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr D wanted without appropriate 
analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so with the implications of taking those 
actions with him. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge even though that was in 
Mr Ds best interests. Indeed I've seen no evidence that Towergate explored with Mr D 
exactly what he wished to do with the additional payment and why. Instead, its suitability 
report says that Mr Ds objective was to take the lump sum immediately without exploring 
what Mr Ds wants and needs were. And I dont think Towergate met its obligations to 
challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up. But theres simply no 
evidence it explored with Mr D what he intended to achieve by transferring his pension and if 
he could achieve that through another means without giving up the benefits from his DB 
scheme.
Also I note that Mr D told Towergate that he felt he had more than enough security at 
retirement. But I've seen no evidence that Towergate established what Mr Ds needs in 
retirement actually were  the fact-find stated that Mr D thought hed need £1,000 per month 
(net) in retirement, but it isnt clear how he reached this figure or whether it was realistic. I 
also havent seen evidence of whether or not he was correct that his other retirement 
provisions were enough to meet those needs. And without establishing whether or not that 
was the case Towergate wasnt in a position to reasonably challenge Mr Ds understanding 
of his likely position in retirement. So, in order to advise Mr D, clearly, fairly and without 
misleading him Towergate needed to do an analysis of what Mr Ds likely income in 
retirement actually would be and then compare that with his needs. But Ive seen no 
evidence that Towergate did the appropriate analysis or made a reasonable challenge to 
Mr Ds assumptions. I think that was something it needed to do in order to ensure it was 
providing suitable advice. Instead it recommended that Mr D should not transfer out of his 
DB scheme, then later in the same report said that it would recommend he transfer to a 
specific PPP.
Towergate did give Mr D advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and did bring some of 
the risks of doing so to his attention. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its recommendation 
to Mr D not to transfer. Thats because Mr D apparently made his initial decision to go 
against its advice before Towergate had given him its suitability report. It then followed up its 
recommendation not to transfer with information about how he could do that anyway and a 
recommendation to transfer into the PPP. I think that sent mixed messages about what its 
genuine recommendation was.
Also, as Towergate acknowledged in its response to Mr Ds complaint, the most beneficial 
time for Mr D to access his DB scheme would have been at age 60. He then would have had 
an income, which would increase each year, for the rest of his life. But the suitability report 
didn't discuss in detail the advantages to Mr D of him staying in the scheme until he reached 
60 and then taking his benefits from it at that point. And given that this appears to have been 
the most advantageous strategy for him, to enable him to make a fully informed decision, 
this was something that Towergate needed to bring to his attention. But I've seen no 
evidence that it did so.
In addition, the suitability report comments that in transferring out of the scheme Mr D would 
be giving up the benefits of the employer covenant, which is Mr Ds former employers legal 
obligation to fund the DB scheme. But the report goes on to say:
Please note the employer covenant in itself is not a guaranteeAnd adds
However, these guarantees are reliant on the financial solvency of the [DB] Scheme and 
the Trustees being able to meet the [DB] Schemes liabilities.
In other words while telling Mr D that he was giving up guaranteed benefits from the 
DB scheme Towergates report also implied that those benefits were not in fact guaranteed 
and could be lost if the scheme and his employer became insolvent. But Ive seen no 
evidence that the funding of the DB scheme was underfunded such that Mr D should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. But thats the impression 
Towergates suitability report gives. I think this is something that Towergate could have been 
far clearer about as I've seen no evidence that the DB scheme would be unable to meet its 
obligations or that Mr Ds former employer was likely to become insolvent. Further, the 
scheme also had the added security of the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), which would 
have preserved most of Mr Ds guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme had it gone 
insolvent. So, I don't think Towergates comments here were helpful in the context of Mr D 
making an informed decision about what he wanted to do.
Towergate was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr D 
about what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots 
like Mr Ds DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But 
Mr Ds chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance of getting hold of 
a large lump sum of cash, for which he had no obvious need, rather than long-term planning. 
And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to someone when they express that 
their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as applying the rigorous process of 
arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client really is. So, given the flaws 
described above in Towergates advice process, I dont think it fully and accurately informed 
Mr D about his position. On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to conclude the process Towergate followed meant that its fair to truly regard Mr D as 
an insistent client. So I don't think Towergate acted in his best interests.
It follows that I dont think Towergate did enough to fully advise Mr D of his options before it 
showed him down the insistent client road. And I think Mr D could have misunderstood or 
believed that overall, Towergate was recommending that he might benefit from going ahead 
with the transfer. So I dont think it treated him fairly. And, if it had done so and provided the 
level of advice I think it should have, I think its unlikely that Mr D would have transferred out 
of his DB scheme.
Towergate argues that Mr D would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of what it 
told him. Ive noted that Mr D not only transferred out of the DB scheme but also went 
against Towergates advice not to take the additional payment immediately but to reinvest it 
in a pension. So he twice went against Towergates advice and this is something I've thought 
about very carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme, against Towergates advice if it had brought all of his options to his 
attention. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to 
risk. But he was taking a significant risk of losing the guarantees from his DB scheme by 
transferring out of it.
Had Towergate accurately represented Mr Ds position, including his option of taking DB 
benefits at age 60 and challenged Mr D about his need to take the additional payment 
immediately, its likely Mr D would have been in a different position. So, if Towergate had 
provided him with clearer advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.In light of the above, I think Towergate should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Towergate to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Towergates unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Towergate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
For clarity, while Mr D has taken TFC from his pension pot, he has not yet retired, and  as 
far as I'm aware  has no plans to do so at present. But my understanding is that Mr D could 
have taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at age 60. So, I currently think 
compensation should be based on Mr D accessing his benefits at age 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Towergate receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay 
Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Towergate pays the balance.
Developments
Both Towergate and Mr D accepted my provisional decision without objection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Towergate nor Mr D objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. I require Towergate Financial (East) 
Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman