DRN-3630653
The complaint
Mr J and Ms S complain about their British Gas Insurance Limited homecare policy. A 
number of engineer visits were cancelled, and it took over two months for the problem to be 
fixed after itd been reported.
What happened
Mr J and Ms S had a homecare policy with British Gas that covered damage and repairs in 
their home. Their toilet cistern developed a flushing fault but when Mr J reported it he was 
told the earliest repair visit he could get was two weeks later. 
On the day the engineer was due to attend Mr J was told they were unwell. So he was 
offered another appointment three days later. Mr J rang to complain and found the 
representative unhelpful. So he cancelled the policy renewal that had just taken place.
British Gas told Mr J the repairs were still covered by the policy as the fault had occurred 
during the cover period. And the engineers visit highlighted that a replacement part was 
needed. Mr J said he spent a lot of time trying to find out if his part had been ordered and 
whether an engineer was able to fit it. After further wasted appointments the repairs finally 
took place two months after the issued had been reported. 
Mr J and Ms S are very unhappy with the service they received from British Gas. They paid 
over £250 for a homecare service which they dont feel was fit for purpose. The only benefit 
they received from the policy had been an annual boiler service that wouldve cost them less 
than £100 otherwise. So theyd like a refund in relation to their insurance policy and 
compensation for the poor service and disruption caused. Although theyd been offered £300 
they dont feel thats sufficient.
British Gas said it was sorry Mr J and Ms S had waited for the appointment to be 
rescheduled due to its engineer being unwell. Itd sent £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
cancelled and rescheduled visits. And after reviewing the case itd increased the offer to 
£300. Itd also reviewed the water bills submitted by Mr J and Ms S which showed the water 
usage had doubled during the period in question. And British Gas had offered £100 towards 
the increased water costs.
Mr J and Ms S werent satisfied with British Gas response. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. She felt the £300 awarded by British Gas for the 
distress and inconvenience was fair and in line with our services guidance. Our investigator 
looked at Mr Js water bills and she thought British Gas should increase its offer to £193.88 
to account for the increase in water usage while the cistern was being repaired. 
But our investigator didnt think it was fair to ask British Gas to return the premium paid by 
Mr J and Ms S as theyd benefitted from the cover itd provided. 
Mr J and Ms S didnt agree with our investigator. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. They felt the service theyd received didnt meet their expectations of an effective 
homecare service. And they also felt the service they did receive wasnt fit for purpose. 
Thered been two appointments when no one had turned up and three appointments when 
the work couldnt be completed due to lack of parts. So they felt the offer of £300 
compensation didnt reflect their trouble and upset. Theyd only tried to make one claim on 
the policy during the year and British Gas hadnt fulfilled their side of the contract. So they 
still felt their policy premium should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has helpfully provided a comprehensive timeline of events so I wont repeat all of that 
here. But its clear Mr J and Ms S feel they werent given the sort of response they expected 
under their homecare policy. And they also feel British Gas and its representatives seemed 
unconcerned and unsympathetic towards their situation.
British Gas has accepted things couldve been handled better. And its increased its offer of 
compensation for any trouble and upset to £300. British Gas has also offered £100 towards 
the increased water bills suffered by Mr J and Ms S during the period. So Ive looked 
carefully at everything thats happened to see if British Gas needs to do anything more to put 
things right.
The homecare policy taken out by Mr J and Ms S covered repairs in the event of breakdown 
or damage to their boiler, central heating system, plumbing, drains and mains electrical 
system. It also included an annual service to their boiler by an approved engineer. The policy 
states a British Gas or associated engineer will carry out the work. And it will carry out any 
repairs or visits within a reasonable time, unless something beyond its control makes that 
impossible.
I can understand Mr Js frustration when the first visit to fix the running toilet was cancelled 
due to the engineers illness after hed already waited a couple of weeks for the appointment. 
Although that was unfortunate, Mr J and Ms S then went through a number of cancelled or 
wasted visits before the issue was fixed. And British Gas has accepted its service fell below 
the level it normally hopes to offer.
I understand as loyal paying customers Mr J and Ms S feel let down by British Gas. But its 
not the role of this service to punish organisations for their mistakes. Our role is to consider 
how its failings have affected the consumer and award what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
I can see British Gas initially offered Mr J and Ms S £100 for their trouble and upset. But 
after reconsidering the time taken to repair the damage, and taking into account the 
cancelled and wasted appointments, British Gas increased its offer to £300.
I do appreciate how frustrating this has been for Mr J and Ms S. And I accept they feel they 
didnt get the level of cover they expected from their homecare policy. But taking everything 
into account I think British Gas offer of £300 is fair and reasonable. And its in line with the 
sort of award our service makes in similar circumstances.
But I do think Mr J and Ms S should be compensated for the financial loss they suffered 
while the cistern continued to flow water during the weeks before repair. 
And I think our investigators calculation of an additional £193.88 compensation more fairly 
represents the increased water usage during the period. Mr J and Ms S feel they havent benefitted from the homecare policy they paid for. So theyd 
also like a refund of part of the premium they paid. But I dont think that would be fair. The 
repairs werent completed in a timely manner. And as Ive noted above Mr J and Ms S 
should be compensated for this. 
But they wouldve benefitted from other repairs covered by the homecare policy if any other 
issue had arisen during the policy period. So even though they didnt need to make any 
other claims I dont think it would be fair to ask British Gas to refund the premium paid. The 
cover was in place whether the policyholder required it or not. And Mr J and Ms S have 
noted they did receive an annual boiler service as part of the policy cover.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr J and Ms Ss complaint about the length of time it took to repair their toilet 
through their British Gas homecare policy and the trouble and upset they were put to during 
the period. 
Having reached this decision it is only right that British Gas compensate Mr J and Ms S for 
their distress and for any financial loss. To put things right British Gas should pay Mr J and 
Ms S £300 compensation for their trouble and upset. And it should pay an additional £193.88 
to reimburse Mr J and Ms S for the increased cost of their water bills during the repair 
period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should pay 
Mr S and Ms J £300 compensation for their trouble and upset. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should also pay an additional £193.88 for the financial loss 
suffered through the increased water bill.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman