DRN-3218159
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs M complain that Premier Insurance Brokers Ltd (PIB) have mis-sold them a 
home insurance policy which included legal expenses cover (LEI).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In November 2017, Mr F and Mrs M took out their Company A buildings insurance 
policy (which included LEI) through PIB as a broker. The sale was over the phone.
In April 2018, Mr F and Mrs B contacted PIB to say they wished to amend their policy 
in light of planned renovation works. Theyve said they requested full insurance 
coverage for the duration of the works to cover any and all risks that may arise. PIB 
provided a quote for the revised cover and this was accepted.
During the works, Mr F and Mrs M encountered issues with their contractor and 
sought to claim on their LEI. Company A considered the claim and declined it, saying 
the policy excluded cover for disputes that directly or indirectly arose from 
constructing buildings or altering a structure. 
Mr F and Mrs M said they were never made aware of this exclusion. And they 
complained to PIB, saying it hadnt sold them sufficient cover.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. She was persuaded the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. And said 
the documentation PIB provided at the policys inception and the point of amendment 
provided were sufficient to allow Mr F and Mrs M to make an informed choice about 
whether to take the policy. 
The Investigator also said there was no evidence to show comparable alternative LEI 
policies wouldnt have included similar exclusions in any case.
Mr F and Mrs M disagreed. Ive summarised their response.
oPIB sold the cover on an advised basis. And it was clear the cover required 
for a building project shouldve included potential disputes with the contractor.
oPIB was required to draw key information, including the exclusion, to their 
attention to allow them to make an informed choice when they amended their 
policy. And it wasnt reasonable to expect them to recall exclusions from 
when it was previously arranged.
oThey wouldve sought other cover had they known of the exclusion. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. Mr F and Mrs M didnt 
provide anything further but asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
PIB says it sold this policy on a non-advised basis. Mr F and Mrs M dispute this. There are 
no available calls of the conversations that took place. So, Ive considered the evidence from 
the time. 
Within the documentation provided, including PIBs welcome letter, it makes reference to the 
policyholder checking that the cover meets their requirements. I think this supports that the 
sale wasnt advised. And within a key facts document from 2017 it says:
You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us We may ask some 
questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details on. 
You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely this policy was sold on a non-
advised basis. That means PIB had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading to enable Mr F and Mrs M to decide if it was suitable for their needs.
When the 2017 sale took place, LEI cover was added. Ive seen documentation provided to 
Mr F and Mrs M after the sale included an insurance product information document (IPID) 
which outlined the type of cover it provided and key exclusions. I wouldnt expect a broker to 
run through every exclusion within a policy when selling it. So, this is what Id expect to see 
in a sale of this nature. 
The exclusion in question is within the policy booklet that was shared with Mr F and Mrs M. 
And they agreed to this cover. To my understanding they had not planned, or at very least, 
were not yet proceeding with any works to the home at this time. While I dont believe this 
sale is in dispute, for the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied the sale of LEI in 2017 was without 
issue for the above reasons, and the policy was not mis-sold. 
Ive gone on to consider the amendment that took place in 2018. Within the amendment 
letter of April 2018 it says:
Following your instruction, we have amended your policy as requested from 09 April 
2018. Please find enclosed a revised policy schedule for your records.
Individual terms will apply to your policy and these are shown on the enclosed 
statement of insurance. It is important that you consider these carefully.
The language suggests to me this amendment took place on a non-advised basis  meaning 
it was for Mr F and Mrs M to determine if the cover was suitable for them. And PIB had to 
provide them with sufficient information to allow them to make an informed choice. 
From what Ive seen, Mr F and Mrs Ms amendments to the policy focused on the property 
becoming unoccupied for the period of works. And the LEI cover wasnt amended at all. 
While I understand they feel strongly PIB shouldve recognised their need for cover that 
protected against a dispute with their contractor  this responsibility to ensure the cover they 
had in place lay with them instead.
Despite no amendments to this part of the policy, I understand PIB provided a copy of the LEI policy terms again in 2018. And the documentation directed them to read these terms. 
So, Im not persuaded PIB mis-sold this policy at the point of amendment in 2018.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman