DRN-2994586
The complaint
Miss M acquired a car in September 2016, by means of a conditional sale agreement over 
49 months with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. She complains that Santander unfairly 
recorded a default on her credit file, after she had voluntarily terminated her agreement. She 
also complains about the damage charges applied to her agreement account, when she 
returned her car.
What happened
Miss M said:
She was diagnosed with a condition in February 2109, which meant that her car was 
no longer suitable for her to use  because of this, she agreed with Santander in 
March 2019 Voluntary Termination (VT) of her agreement  
When she returned her car, she received a letter from Santander notifying her of the 
one-off VT payment of a little under £2,000 that she needed to make
She contacted Santander saying her financial circumstances meant that she wished 
to agree with it a plan for making the VT payment
She pointed out that she had missed none of the monthly repayments required under 
her agreement, and that she did not want to encounter any issues in making the 
VT payment 
A while after she returned her car, Santander notified her of repair charges applied to 
her account, for damage to her car considered to be greater than normal wear and 
tear  she felt these charges were unjustified 
But she received no notification about a payment plan, and so she contacted 
Santander again  it sent her another form to complete and return, which she did
She then received a debt recovery letter for just over £2,000, and Santander 
subsequently recorded a default on her credit file  this both blackened her credit file, 
and had a negative effect on her health
Miss M initially complained to Santander in March 2020, adding:
She asked why her request for a payment plan was never followed-up? 
She wanted both an apology, and the default removed from her credit file
She continued to receive threatening debt letters, even after she had paid the full 
amount owed
Miss M then referred her complaint to us in June 2020, having received no response from 
Santander. We asked Santander why it had not responded? It investigated and told us that 
Miss Ms complaint had been emailed to a Santander Bank address, and not to it.  
Santander responded by letter to Miss M in December 2020, saying:
Following Miss Ms request for VT of her agreement, it wrote to her in early March 
2019 setting out the payment that would be required to do so
It wrote to her again in mid May 2019 because this payment had not been made, and 
asking Miss M to do so
Miss M phoned it in late May 2019, advising that she was in financial difficulty  it 
sent her an income and expenditure form, for her to complete and return, which she 
did not do
The next contact it received from Miss M was a phone call in early August 2019, 
arising from which it sent her another income and expenditure form, for her to 
complete and return
It received no further contact from Miss M, and so her agreement was passed to its 
solicitors to recover the outstanding balance  it did nothing wrong, and so was 
unable to uphold her complaint
Regarding debt letters, Miss M paid off her outstanding balance in late March 2020. 
Santander told us that an automatic statutory letter (notice of arrears) was sent to her 
several days earlier, which possibly was not delivered before she made her payment, 
because of postal delays  but no further arrears related correspondence was sent. 
 
Miss M told us that other letters from Santander could have been wrongly addressed  she 
had written to Santander notifying it of her new address, but the December 2020 response 
was sent to her old address. 
Santander told us:
It had both posted and emailed the income and expenditure forms to Miss M in 2019
Miss M notified a changed email address, when she initially complained to it in 
March 2020  and it had emailed its December 2020 response to this changed 
address 
It had not received any letters from Miss M about change of address
Our investigator also asked Miss M when she notified Santander of her change of address?  
Miss M did not provide this information. But the letters from Santander to Miss M, copies of 
which it provided to us, were all sent to the address recorded in Miss Ms 2016 conditional 
sale agreement.
In addition, Santander provided to us the damage report it sent to Miss B in late April 2019. 
This identified two damaged areas, costing together just over £100 to repair. 
Our investigator did not think that this complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator considered that one of the damage areas was correctly identified as greater 
than normal wear and tear, and so was correctly charged  but the other area should have 
been identified as normal wear and tear, and so should not have been charged to Miss Ms 
account. As a goodwill gesture, Santander had already agreed this change, which reduced 
to a little under £50 the charge to Miss Ms account. Our investigator did not consider the information recorded by Santander on Miss Ms credit 
file to be incorrect, because:
Santander made Miss B aware of the outstanding balance and her liability, following 
the VT of her agreement
When Miss B stated that she was in financial difficulties, Santander invited her (twice) 
to complete documentation confirming her statement  in the absence of this 
completed documentation or other evidence that she was in difficulties, it was not 
obliged to consider a plan which would offer her a revised schedule of repayments
Instead, Santander followed its usual process for outstanding balances, which it 
correctly recorded on Miss Bs credit file
Similarly, our investigator was satisfied that Santander stopped sending arrears letters to 
Miss B, as soon as she had paid off the outstanding balance of her account.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators conclusions. So, this complaint was referred for 
review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ms Ms complaint raises several questions, as follows.
Should all the Damage Charges applied to Miss Ms account be withdrawn?
Ms M complained about two charges applied to her account for damage to her car, greater 
than normal wear and tear, when she returned it.
Santander has withdrawn one of these charges. But it agrees with our investigator that the 
other £45 charge should remain. 
I have reviewed the damage report sent by Santander to Miss B. I find that, based on the 
industry guidelines used in these circumstances, the remaining damage is greater than 
normal wear and tear  and so the relevant damage charge should remain. 
Should Santander have offered Miss M a payment plan?
I accept that Miss M may have had good reason to voluntarily terminate her agreement. But I 
also have no reason to believe she was unaware that a substantial payment would need to 
be made to Santander, in order to do so. 
It appears that, after voluntary termination had been agreed, Miss M told Santander about 
her financial difficulties and asked for a payment plan. Santander responded by asking for 
documentation to confirm her financial circumstances. 
On the one hand, Miss M says that she never received the form Santander was asking her 
to complete, despite contacting it a second time about this matter. On the other hand, 
Santander says that twice it both posted and emailed the form to her  and that both the 
postal and email addresses were correct.I accept that, in the absence of a completed form or other evidence of Miss Ms financial 
difficulties, Santander was not obliged to consider a plan which would offer her a revised 
schedule of (delayed) repayments. 
And, on the balance of probabilities, I am unable to find that Santander acted incorrectly in 
its dealings with Miss M. I sympathise with Miss M. But my view is that Santander acted 
reasonably, in attempting to have the form delivered to her  whether or not she received the 
form.
 
Have the adverse entries on Miss Ms credit file been unfairly recorded by Santander?
Because Santander did not receive confirmation of Miss Ms financial difficulties, it acted 
reasonably in my view, by following its usual process for outstanding balances  which it 
correctly recorded on Miss Bs credit file. And, because Santander had not previously acted 
unreasonably, I find that its actions in recording these adverse entries were fair. So, it would 
be wrong to remove these entries (including the default).
Did Miss M continue to receive threatening debt letters, even after she had paid the full 
amount owed?
For the same reasons as our investigator, I find that Santander stopped sending arrears 
letters to Miss B, as soon as she had paid off the outstanding balance of her account.  So, 
Miss M did not inappropriately continue to receive these letters.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman