DRN-3158907
The complaint
Miss W says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home lent to her irresponsibly. Miss W 
said that her financial situation was poor. She says she was constantly robbing peter to pay 
paul and she took loans to pay other loans. She thinks that LaH shouldve seen this and not 
lent to her. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about ten home collected loans LaH provided to Miss W between June 
2016 and December 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending 
is in the table below. 
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 09/06/2016 £200 33 01/12/2016
2 25/08/2016 £200 33 09/02/2017
3 01/12/2016 £250 45 12/10/2017
4 09/02/2017 £500 45 16/11/2017
5 16/11/2017 £800 45 08/08/2018
6 08/08/2018 £800 45 12/06/2019
7 12/06/2019 £500 46 04/03/2020
8 18/12/2019 £375 46 04/11/2020
9 04/03/2020 £500 46 09/12/2020
10 09/12/2020 £1,000 46 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that LaH had lent loans 1 to 4 
irresponsibly. But he thought that it shouldnt have approved loans 5 to 10 as the lending 
pattern itself had become harmful by loan 5. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said:
Miss W didnt borrow an excessive amount. She borrowed just over £5,000, in 
around four and a half years. 
The lending varied rather than increasing each year.
Miss W had a reasonable income and her financial situation, as evidenced by the 
credit reference agency data, improved over time. 
Her repayments were never too large in relation to her income. 
Miss W didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss W had with 
LaH. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 10 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Miss W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
LaH should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:Miss W had taken out five loans over 17 months. And she was making a commitment 
to make repayments over another 45 weeks. I think this is a long time to be using this 
type of credit. 
Miss Ws first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for £800. I think this was a significant 
increase. And as, LaH has noted Miss W had borrowed a number of times in the 
same year before this. So, at this point, LaH ought to have known that Miss W was 
not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an 
ongoing need. 
Right from the start Miss W was provided with a new loan within a very short period 
of time of settling a previous one. And she usually had more than one loan running at 
the same time.
So, overall, LaH ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably.
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts she owed LaH. Loan 10 was 
taken out around four and a half years after Miss Ws first. And it was for a much 
larger amount. Miss W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to LaH over an extended period.
I have taken on board what LaH has said about some of the information it had showing that 
Miss Ws indebtedness may have been decreasing elsewhere. But the fact that her lending 
with LaH was significant, ongoing and generally increasing, does tend to support what 
Miss W said about using loans to pay for essential spending or to repay other lending. And 
this isnt sustainable. 
I think that Miss W lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 10 and LaH should put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss W from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Miss W loans 5 to 10.
If LaH has sold the outstanding debts LaH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss W having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then LaH 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. LaH shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal LaH has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Ws borrowing for loans 5 o 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Ws 
credit file. LaH does not have to remove loan 10 from Miss Ws credit file until these have 
been repaid, but LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint. S.D. Taylor Limited 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman