DRN-1428590
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with her request for a 
document to be signed.
What happened
Mrs C says she went to a Nationwide branch for a document to be signed which Nationwide 
staff had done for a number of years. She says she was told the policy had changed and it 
couldn't be signed. But then went to a different branch and staff there signed the document. 
Mrs C says she spoke to Nationwide about what had taken place and was given a different 
reason for the initial refusal. She says Nationwide had discriminated against her and 
provided different reasons for the refusal.
Nationwide accepts it made a mistake and has apologised, as well as paying Mrs C £100 
compensation. It says it made a policy change in March 2019 about signing customers 
documents but could have signed this document as it was for an overseas pension. 
Nationwide accepts giving Mrs C incorrect information in branch and when she called it and 
says it's updated the staff involved. It says it made mistakes, but they do not amount to racial 
discrimination.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly 
with it. The investigator accepted Nationwide had made mistakes but had acted fairly by 
paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
Mrs C doesn't accept that view and says her discrimination complaint hasn't been 
investigated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint. I realise Mrs C will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a series of mistakes when dealing with, 
what ought to have been, a simple request to help Mrs C with the signing of a document. I 
have no doubt Mrs C was caused distress and inconvenience in attending a different 
Nationwide branch and in calling it about what took place. And I am sure Mrs C would have 
been confused by the different reasons Nationwide provided about its policy. But I'm 
satisfied that Nationwide has apologised for what took place and has fairly explained that it 
has provided feedback to the staff members involved.
I'm also satisfied that in addition to the apology, it's paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount of £100 compensation. I think that award fairly reflects the level of Nationwide's mistake and that Mrs C didn't suffer any financial loss as a result of it. I also 
take into account that the document was signed by Nationwide.
I appreciate that Mrs C's main area of complaint is not about the compensation level but 
about what she says about the racial discrimination. I should explain to Mrs C that it would 
be for a court to make a determination on such matters and not us.And its not our role to 
investigate a business or regulate it. I make clear to Mrs C that on the evidence I have seen, 
this was a mistake by Nationwide staff in interpreting its rules on signing documents and had 
nothing to do with other matters. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman