DRN-4202988
The complaint
Mr G complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans which he couldnt afford.  
What happened
Mr G was granted five loans by MoneyBoat, Ive outlined his borrowing history below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 18/07/2020 24/07/2020 4 £165.12
2 £200.00 15/08/2020 14/01/2021 6 £56.45
3 £500.00 15/01/2021 23/07/2021 6 £162.68
4 £450.00 23/07/2021 26/07/2021 6 £142.33
5 £250.00 27/07/2021 03/08/2021 6 £76.99
MoneyBoat didnt provide a final response to Mr G and so he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
Where it was considered by an adjudicator. And she considered MoneyBoat hadnt done 
anything wrong when loans 1 to 4 were granted. But she did uphold the complaint about loan 
5. She said further checks ought to have been carried out, and had MoneyBoat done that, it 
wouldve seen that Mr G had paid out a significant sum to other high-cost creditors in the 
month before the loan. So, the loan wasnt affordable. 
MoneyBoat agreed with the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr G didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision saying:
His outgoings when loans 2 and 3 were granted were more than his income. 
Mr G had a history of taking out payday loans.
He had maxed out both his overdraft and his credit cards. 
MoneyBoat ought to have looked at his bank statements.
He had to make use of a revolving credit facility to make ends meet. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loans 1  4 
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr G for details of his income, which he 
declared as being between £1,028 and £1,794. 
It is my understanding from reviewing previous MoneyBoat complaints that the income 
figures were likely checked either by obtaining a copy of the applicants wage slip or by cross 
referencing information through a third-party report.  Indeed, for this case, MoneyBoat has 
provided a copy of a wage slip Mr G received in December 2020  so shortly before loan 3 
was approved. This wouldve led MoneyBoat to believe the income figure he had declared 
was accurate. 
Mr G also declared monthly outgoings as low as £290 when loan 2 was advanced and as 
high as £410 when loan 5 was granted. As part of the application, MoneyBoat wouldve likely 
used information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) to adjust the declared expenditure Mr G had provided. As a result, of this check, Mr Gs monthly 
expenditure was increased for each loan between £381 and £560 per month.  
After carrying out these checks, Mr Gs disposable income ranged from £178 at loan 2 to 
£944 when loan 4 was advanced. And so even when MoneyBoat adjusted the disposable 
income that Mr G had declared, he still had sufficient income to be able to afford the 
repayments he had to make. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Ive reviewed the credit check results and there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr G was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were 
no insolvency markers or debt management plans. There also hadnt been any defaulted 
accounts recorded within three years of taking out any of the loans. And on his active 
accounts, his payments were up to date, with no missed payments markers.
By loan 4, Mr G was close to his overdraft limit on one account, but significantly under on 
another. A consumer being near their overdraft limit on one bank account wouldnt be 
enough to have prompted MoneyBoat to undertake further checks. And the same can be 
said for all his credit cards. At times, some of the cards were near the credit limits but that 
again, in the absence of other adverse data wouldnt have in my view, prompted MoneyBoat 
to carry out further checks. 
In my view, having looked at the credit check results, there wasnt anything that wouldve 
prompted MoneyBoat to either have declined the loan applications or to have prompted it to 
have made better checks. 
Ive reviewed the income and expenditure information Mr G provided in response to the 
adjudicators assessment, and this does seem to suggest that his outgoings exceeded his 
income. However, this wasnt reflected in the information that either he provided to 
MoneyBoat or from the results of MoneyBoats checks. And so I cant fairly say that 
MoneyBoat ought to have been aware of that. 
There wasnt anything else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr G 
had provided. So, while Mr G has provided his bank statements, in this case, it wouldve 
been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have considered them for the first four loans.  
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr G gave it about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that these loans would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 1  4. 
Loan 5
MoneyBoat has already accepted this loan ought to not have been granted and has agreed 
with the adjudicators assessment to put things right. As its accepted that something went 
wrong with this loan  its no longer in dispute and it should therefore do what it has agreed 
to do  which is what Ive set out below. Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided Mr G with loan 5.
 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards 
interest, fees and charges towards loan 5. 
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr G the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to loan 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 1 
to 4.
But Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right 
for Mr G in relation to loan 5 only  as it has agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman