DRN-3018403
The complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mis-informed her that a medical 
expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy would be paid.
What happened
Mrs M has travel insurance as a benefit of her packaged bank account.
In May 2017, while Mrs M was on holiday abroad, she was unfortunately diagnosed with 
cancer. She underwent surgery to treat the condition while she was away.
Subsequently, in April 2021, Mrs M made a medical expenses claim for the costs associated 
with her diagnosis and treatment. UKI looked into the claim and ultimately turned it down.
Mrs M was unhappy because she said that one of UKIs claims handlers had told her the 
costs of her surgery would be covered. And she felt that another member of UKIs call 
handlers had failed to adequately address her concerns.
UKI acknowledged that its claims handler hadnt properly managed Mrs Ms expectations. 
And that during a further call, another handler hadnt addressed Mrs Ms concerns. So it 
acknowledged that itd caused Mrs M some distress and inconvenience. It offered her 
compensation of £100 to apologise for the upset shed been caused.
Mrs M remained unhappy with UKIs offer and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator felt UKIs offer of £100 compensation was fair. He thought UKIs claims 
handler had given Mrs M the impression that subject to further medical evidence, her claim 
would be covered. And he didnt think the second call had been handled well either. But he 
explained that he wouldnt ask UKI to pay a claim which wasnt valid just because Mrs M 
was misled about the policy cover. So he was satisfied that £100 was reasonable 
compensation to reflect the impact the misinformation and poor customer service had had on 
Mrs M.
Mrs M disagreed. She didnt feel that £100 compensation was enough to recognise the fact 
that shed been misled by UKI. She felt that UKI should have practices in place to rule out 
invalid claims so that policyholders dont waste their time or money.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only consider the customer service Mrs M received in relation to her claim. Mrs M made a 
separate complaint about UKIs decision to decline her claim, which has been decided by 
another ombudsman at this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I think UKIs offer of compensation is 
fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive listened to the calls between UKIs claims handler and a follow-up 
call with another member of UKIs team. While I agree that the claims handler didnt 
definitively tell Mrs M that her claim would be paid, I think that he led her to believe that on 
provision of a surgical invoice, her claim would be settled. 
However, this wasnt the case  UKI needed to assess the evidence before it could decide 
whether or not the claim would be covered. And Im satisfied that the claims handler ought 
reasonably to have been clear about the claims handling process with Mrs M during the call. 
I can entirely understand then why when Mrs Ms claim was turned down, she felt shed 
been misled by the claims handler. And I can also understand how disappointing and 
frustrating it mustve been when she learned that her claim wasnt covered.
As our investigator explained though, even in cases where we accept misinformation has 
been given by an insurer, that doesnt mean that well tell it that it must settle a claim which 
isnt covered by the policy contract. Well consider whether a consumer has lost out 
financially as a result of any misinformation they may have been given and also whether 
theyve suffered any trouble and upset. 
In this case, I dont think I could fairly find that Mrs M was caused any financial detriment as 
a result of the misinformation she was given. I say that because the call took place almost 
four years after Mrs M had undergone treatment and returned to the UK. So her 
conversation with the call handler didnt lead her to decide to undergo treatment abroad or 
remain abroad when she wouldnt otherwise have done so. Mrs Ms loss here was the upset 
she was caused by the failure of UKIs claims handler to properly manage her expectations.
It's clear too that during the second call, UKIs call handler didnt deal with Mrs Ms concerns 
as well as he couldve done. I dont think he responded adequately to her questions and I 
dont doubt that the handling of the call overall caused Mrs M further frustration and upset. 
So Im satisfied that the service Mrs M received from UKI while it looked into her claim and 
subsequent complaint wasnt as good as it couldve been.  And Im persuaded that this 
caused her some unnecessary trouble and upset, on top of the inevitable inconvenience 
caused by making a medical expenses claim. Im pleased to see that UKI recognised the 
failings in its service and offered Mrs M £100 compensation both to acknowledge her loss of 
expectation and the second call handlers failure to properly address her concerns. It also 
apologised for the service itd provided and Ive seen evidence that it passed feedback to the 
two call handlers about the way theyd dealt with Mrs Ms claim. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied this was a fair and appropriate response from UKI and that the compensation its 
offered Mrs M is reasonable to recognise the impact its service had on her.
Overall then, Ive decided that UKIs offer to pay Mrs M £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. So Im not directing it to pay anything more. Its now open to Mrs M to get in 
touch with UKI if shed like to accept its offer.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that UKIs offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman