DRN-3292539
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the way U K Insurance Limited (t/a Green Flag) handled a request 
for assistance he made on his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr A suffered damage to the tyres on the caravan he was towing. He replaced 
the first tyre failure with the spare tyre. However, shortly afterwards, the other tyre failed. As 
he didnt have another spare tyre, he contacted Green Flag to ask for assistance. Green 
Flag sent a company to assist on its behalf, but it didnt explain to the company that it was 
the caravans tyre that had failed. As a result, the recovery agent didnt have the right 
equipment with him, or a replacement tyre. But Mr A says the agent told him he had a tyre at 
his garage. The agent collected the tyre and gave it to Mr A who fitted it himself. However, 
Mr A said the tyre didnt have sufficient pressure and the agent wasnt able to blow it up 
further, so Mr A had to drive to a nearby layby to pump the tyre up further.
Mr A continued with his journey, but shortly afterwards the replacement tyre blew. Mr A 
contacted Green Flag again. A mobile tyre specialist attended this time and replaced both 
damaged tyres. Mr A paid £90 for the call out charge and a further £300 for the replacement 
tyres.
Mr A later complained to Green Flag about the service hed received. In particular he raised 
the following points:
The failure of the replacement tyre caused damage to the caravan. He said the tyre used 
was over 10 years old and was unsafe to be fitted to his caravan.
Green Flag gave the wrong information to recovery driver. This meant the driver was not 
properly equipped or had the relevant experience to suitably assist with the breakdown.
The recovery truck not Green Flag branded.
He says the call handler had promised to call him back after the second call out, but he 
didnt do so. 
Hes unhappy the replacement tyres he bought were two years old already. He says 
caravan tyres are supposed to be replaced when they become five years old. So he said 
he will have to replace them in three years time, which he thinks is unfair.
UKI partially upheld Mr As complaint. It accepted it had instructed the wrong recovery agent 
and given the agent incorrect information. It also agreed to refund the amount Mr A paid to 
repair his caravan (£368.06) as well as the call out fee of £90 Mr A paid. Finally it agreed to 
pay Mr A £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
However, UKI didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the replacement tyre. It said the five-year 
guidance was that the tyres should be replaced around five years after fitting  not five years 
from manufacture. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She thought £300 was fair compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr A had suffered. She also was satisfied it was fair for 
Green Flag to not uphold the complaint regarding the replacement tyres.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He didnt think £300 was fair compensation. 
He said he had suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. He said, in 
addition to the issues highlighted above, hed also lost half a day of his holiday as he thinks 
the recovery process took over two hours longer than it should have done, which he said 
also resulted in him being delayed in rush hour traffic. Overall, he said he arrived around six 
hours later than he should have done. He also said, by the time he arrived at his destination, 
he didnt have time or energy to put up the paraphernalia that goes with camping upon 
arrival. 
He also didnt agree his complaint about the tyres shouldnt be upheld. He disagreed the five 
year window went from the date of fitting. He also said as soon as a tyre is produced, it will 
start to deteriorate as the rubber compound breaks down. So he maintained the tyre had 
deteriorated by the time it was fitted. He maintained that hed been provided with tyres at a 
premium rate that were going to need replacing two years earlier than necessary.
As Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKIs compensation offer is fair and I dont think it needs to do anything further. Ill 
now explain why.
Mr A has raised a number of issues that went wrong with the recovery process. But I think a 
number of these issues have been resolved. So I dont intend to comment on them further, 
apart from to say I think UKI has responded fairly on them. It seems to me that there are two 
issues outstanding for me to consider in this complaint:
1. Should UKI compensate Mr A for the recovery agent fitting two-year-old tyres; and
2. Is £300 fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has suffered?
I shall consider each point separately.
Replacement tyres
Ive considered in detail what Mr A has said in this matter, but I dont think UKIs response 
was unfair. I understand the guidance is that tyres should be replaced after five years. But I 
think Green Flag and its agent were required to supply tyres that were of satisfactory quality 
and were fit for their intended purpose. While I note Mr A is unhappy the tyres were 
apparently two years old, I havent seen anything to show they were used tyres. I also 
havent seen anything to show the tyres have failed, or are likely to fail, prematurely. 
Mr A says hes required to replace tyres after they become five years old. But I dont think it 
seems unreasonable for UKI to conclude this is based on five years of usage. Ultimately Ive 
not seen anything to show that the tyres provided were not of satisfactory quality or fit for 
their intended purpose. So Im not persuaded UKI, or its agent, has breached any aspect of 
Mr As roadside assistance policy in regards to the tyres that were fitted.
Distress and inconvenience suffered
Theres no dispute Mr A has suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience in 
the way this claim has been handled. However, it should also be recognised that there will always be a degree of distress and inconvenience suffered where a breakdown occurs. The 
issue for me to consider is what additional and avoidable distress and inconvenience Mr A 
has suffered due to Green Flags failings. I think the primary issue here is that Green Flag 
should have instructed a mobile tyre specialist in the first instance. And I think its failure to 
do so meant the agent it instructed didnt have the equipment to adequately resolve the 
breakdown. As a result the following happened:
Mr A had to wait for the agent to return to his garage to get a replacement tyre;
Mr A fitted the tyre himself;
Mr A had to visit a layby to blow the tyre up;
His caravan suffered further damage as a result of the tyre failure.
Im conscious all of this will naturally have meant Mr A lost out on a number of hours of his 
holiday. I also note there was a delay in Green Flag issuing the refund it promised Mr A. But 
Green Flag has already offered Mr A £300 in compensation. I recognise Mr A doesnt 
believe this is sufficient given everything that has happened. But £300 is in line with what I 
would have awarded for whats happened. So I dont think Green Flag needs to increase this 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think UKIs compensation offer 
to refund the amount Mr A paid to repair his caravan (£368.08), the cost of the call out (£90) 
and pay a £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused is fair. And I dont require it to 
pay anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman