DRN-4061421
The complaint
Miss G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, who Ill call 
Shop Direct have refused to erase her data.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here. Instead. Ill 
focus my attention on my decision and on explaining how Ive come to that decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This Service can consider a complaint about activities that are ancillary to a financial 
business main (regulated) activity. Here I think the handling of Miss Gs personal data is an 
activity that was carried out by Shop Direct in connection with the business regulated money 
lending activity, so I think their decision not to erase Miss Gs data is something we can 
consider.
Ive therefore thought about whether Shop Direct have been fair and reasonable when 
refusing to erase Miss Gs data. I think they have.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) regulates compliance to data protection laws 
in the UK. It has a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply with 
data protection laws and to fine them. But, unlike us, it doesnt have the power to award 
compensation to consumers whove suffered financial loss or have been caused distress 
and inconvenience by the way a financial business has handled their personal information.
Miss G has referred her complaint to the ICO but that doesnt mean we cant also look at the 
complaint as I bear in mind its only through this Service that any compensation could be 
awarded to Miss G.
The ICO wrote to Shop Direct in November 2022 and asked them to clarify their position to 
Miss G. It asked Shop Direct to look again at the issues raised by Miss G, explain the legal 
basis they relied on for keeping her information on file, explain how long it would be kept on 
file, and ensure Miss G was added to their marketing suppression list.
I can see that during the course of November 2022 Shop Direct did that. They explained, for 
instance, that they had to meet their regulatory obligations in respect of Anti Money 
Laundering legislation which required them to retain Miss Gs data for five years, and that 
they also needed to retain data for defence of litigation which meant they were required to 
retain Miss Gs data for six years.
The UK General Data Protection Regulations introduced the right for consumers to have 
their data erased but that right is not absolute and only applies in certain circumstances. The 
right to erasure does not apply, for instance, if processing is necessary to comply with a 
legal obligation, or for the establishment, exercise, or defence of legal claims.
So, after reviewing Shop Directs response to Miss G in November 2022 the ICO decided:
It is our view that you have retained the personal data of Ms G in line with the data 
protection regulation. Your information will be added to this case file and the case has now 
been closed.
Im therefore persuaded that Shop Direct have been fair and reasonable when handling Miss 
Gs complaint, and I dont think they need to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman