DRN-3904623
The complaint
Mr C complains that Motorplus Limited didnt log his claim on his motor insurance policy. He 
wants it to pay for his car repair. 
What happened
Mr C called his insurers claims handler, Motorplus, to notify it of a damaged wingmirror on 
his car as required by his policy. Four months later, he called Motorplus as he hadnt heard 
anything further. Motorplus said it hadnt logged a claim and it apologised. It also said it was 
no longer Mr Cs insurers claims handler and he should call a different company. Mr C 
called it and told it about the damage for information purposes only. Mr C was unhappy with 
Motorpluss apology. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Motorplus 
had made an error, and this had caused Mr C trouble and upset. And he thought it should 
pay Mr C £100 compensation for this. But he didnt think it should pay for the repair as it was 
for Mr C to make a claim on his policy if he wanted to pursue this. 
Mr C agreed. But Motorplus replied that it thought Mr C never intended to make a claim on 
his policy. It said the inconvenience caused was one additional phone call. And so it thought 
it hadnt caused Mr C any detriment or inconvenience that warranted compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C firstly emailed Motorplus to notify it of the incident. I can see that Mr C provided details 
of the incident, the other cars registration number and a video. He asked Motorplus to 
advise him on next steps. Motorplus tried to call Mr C back on two occasions without 
success. Then Mr C called it about another matter and this incident was raised. Motorplus 
agrees that it made an error by not then logging Mr Cs claim and by not calling him back to 
discuss the claim as it then agreed to do.
When a business makes a mistake, as Motorplus accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Im satisfied that Motorplus restored Mr Cs position by providing the incident details to the 
new claims handler. Mr C decided not to make a claim on his policy, but to notify his insurer 
of the incident for information purposes only. Motorplus thought this meant that Mr C hadnt 
suffered any detriment from it not logging his claim. 
But I cant see from the evidence what Mr Cs intention was when he first notified Motorplus 
of the claim. He provided sufficient details for a claim to be set up and pursued. And he 
asked for advice which wasnt provided. So I cant reasonably say that Motorplus didnt 
cause Mr C a loss of expectation or delay in the claim. That he later decided not to claim 
isnt relevant to the service he was provided at the time. 
In terms of the impact on Mr C, Motorplus said he had to make just one call to ask what was 
happening with the claim. This was four months after the incident. Mr C hasnt explained why 
he didnt call Motorplus sooner to chase this up. But I think Mr C could reasonably expect 
Motorplus to have logged the claim and to pursue the other driver. But it didnt do this. And I 
think this caused Mr C avoidable frustration and upset. 
Motorplus apologised for its level for service. But I agree with the Investigator that this isnt 
sufficient in the circumstances. Mr C wanted Motorplus to reimburse the cost of repairing his 
wing mirror, about £300. But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable as Mr C can still 
make a claim on his policy if he wishes. I think, in keeping with our published guidance, that 
Motorplus should pay Mr C £100 compensation for his loss of expectation and the impact of 
its service errors.
Putting things right
I require Motorplus Limited to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Motorplus Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman