DRN-2878912
The complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to refund two transactions from 
her account that she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss H noticed that two payments had left her account that she didnt recognise. Miss H 
contacted Santander to notify them of the unauthorised transactions and ask for her money 
to be returned.
Miss H confirmed that her mobile device had a fingerprint and passcode to access the 
banking app. She said that no one else had access to her phone and she hadnt given the 
passcode to anyone else. 
Santander investigated the transactions and were satisfied that Miss H had made them 
herself. They declined to refund the two payments. 
Miss H brought her complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked at 
by an investigator. They thought the evidence pointed to Miss H making the transactions and 
didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss H disagreed and said the payments must have been done remotely. She also said that 
she didnt get a separate verification for the new payee  which shed had before. Miss H 
asked for her complaint to be looked at again and its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint that Miss H has brought to us is that she didnt make the two payments 
herself. The relevant law is contained in the Payment Service regulations (2017). The basic 
position is that Santander can hold Miss H liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts  authentication and consent. Authentication refers to 
the procedure used by the bank to verify that a payment was made and usually refers to the 
technical evidence. In this case Santander have been able to show that Miss Hs registered 
mobile device was used to make the transaction using the mobile banking app. It shows the 
new payee was set up and two payments were made. On each occasion the passcode was 
used to confirm the actions in the app.
Miss H has said she didnt receive any separate verification message from the bank when 
setting up a new payee. Santander have confirmed that verification was carried out within 
the app and theyve provided evidence to show this. When using the app  a separate text 
isnt necessary. Whilst I understand Miss Hs comment  the evidence shows that her 
passcode was used to verify the setting up of a new payee and making the two payments. 
Because Santander have been able to provide technical evidence that it was Miss Hs 
device and security code used to make the payments, Im satisfied the payments were 
properly authenticated.
But, I also have to consider the second part  consent. Miss H has denied making these two 
payments and Ive carefully considered the circumstances at the time. 
Miss H has speculated the transactions could have been done remotely. Santander have 
confirmed it was the unique device registered to Miss Hs account that set up and made the 
payments. They were also confirmed using Miss Hs passcode. So, for an unknown third 
party to be responsible they would have to access Miss Hs device and obtain her unique 
passcode. Theres no evidence of someone else using Miss Hs account and Miss H has 
confirmed that she hasnt given her passcode to anyone else or written it down anywhere. 
So, I dont think its likely that an unauthorised third party remotely accessed her account to 
make the payments.
The other reason I dont think it was a third party is the activity on the account at the time the 
payments were set up. If it was an unknown third party responsible for remotely accessing - 
hacking the account, that would mean theyd have complete control over the account. In 
such cases I would expect them to empty the account, rather than leaving funds in the 
account untouched which is what happened here. So, I dont think it was likely the payments 
were the result of an unknown third party.
Ive also considered if any there were any other possibilities to explain the authorisation of 
the two transactions. As part of my review, I asked our investigator to speak with Miss H to 
see if any other persons known to her could be responsible. Miss H confirmed that a family 
member lived with her  but shes adamant they didnt have access to the phone or know the 
passcode for the phone or the banking app. 
Because Miss H confirmed that her family member doesnt know the passcodes used to 
access her phone and banking app and that she keeps the phone in her bedroom overnight, 
I dont think this is likely to have been the explanation for the two transactions.
I also asked our investigator to carry out checks with the bank that received both the 
payments. The bank told us that there were no other reports of fraud associated with the 
account. 
Because Santander confirmed it was Miss Hs device that made the two payments from her 
account, there are only a limited number of ways in which the payment could have been 
made. As Ive already explained, I dont find it likely that her device or account were hacked 
or that anyone else present in her house were likely to have carried them out. The remaining 
possibility is that Miss H authorised the transaction herself. Miss H strongly denies this but 
the evidence that Ive considered has discounted the other explanations which leads me to 
conclude that Miss H authorised the transactions herself.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss H as she strongly feels she wasnt responsible for 
the two payments leaving her account. But, taking everything Ive seen together, Im satisfied 
that Santander can hold Miss H responsible for the two payments made from her account.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman