DRN-3112119
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ls credit card application 
completed in-branch in 2002. Looking at this I can see there is a X marked in the box to 
indicate Mr L wanted PPI. Im mindful that the cross is printed rather than handwritten  
but so is all the other information recorded on the application. 
And my understanding of the sales process at the time is that the application was printed 
out reflecting the discussion had and the questions asked by the representative during 
the meeting.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything to persuade me that 
something different happened in Mr Ls case, I think Mr L chose to take out PPI and 
likely did so without undue pressure. 
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr L was eligible for the 
cover and he had limited means to fall back on to make the repayments on his credit 
card if he wasnt working  so I think he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ls employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr L says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended 
it. I say this because what Mr L told us about happened 20 years before the sale. And 
while its clear from what he said that it impacted him and his ability to work at the time, 
hes not said or implied that it caused him ongoing problems. So given theres nothing to 
indicate that in the 12 months before taking out the policy Mr L sought advice or 
treatment from a doctor for his condition or that he experienced substantive symptoms 
which would otherwise have affected his ability to claim, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L would have 
declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman