DRN-3460117
The complaint
Mr G complains that Jaja Finance Limited (Jaja) withdrew the direct debit facility  for his 
credit card without advising him. That he was unaware of debts on the card or of the debt 
being sold on. He would like his credit file amended  and compensation for the 
inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
From the information I have seen it seems that the last direct debit payment Mr G 
made to his account was in December 2015. Jajas  records show the direct debit 
was cancelled in January 2017 as Mr G hadnt used the card for 13 months. Jajas 
process is to treat direct debits as dormant and to cancel them after an extended 
period when they havent been used. That doesnt seem unreasonable to me .
Mr G then didnt use his card again until August 2018. I appreciate Mr G wasnt 
advised the direct debit had been cancelled but I think he would have known a direct 
debit hadnt been taken from information either on his credit card or bank statements. 
Even if he didnt I think most consumers might think it reasonable to check if a direct 
debit was still in place for a card they hadnt used for approximately two and a half 
years .
Mr G says as he was working away from home he didnt get statements on his 
account or the letters the business sent to Mr G in  2018 - 2019 about missed 
payments and arrears. These included  a default notice and a letter revoking the 
account advising the debt was being sold on. I have  seen the statements and 
correspondence  sent to Mr G, these were correctly addressed. Its unfortunate that 
Mr G didnt arrange for his post to be forwarded to him. Or that he didnt advise the 
business of his change of address as he should have done so under its terms and 
conditions. I am persuaded Jaja communicated appropriately with Mr G about the 
status of his account.
I appreciate Mr Gs concern about the impact of the debt on his credit file. Its 
important that credit files accurately reflect account history .So as I believe the 
business acted appropriately and there was an outstanding debt I cant reasonably 
ask Jaja to amend Mr Gs credit file
I have noted Mr Gs comments about his relationship with his local bank branch, its 
closure, his subsequent transfer to another branch and finally Jaja taking over 
responsibility for his credit card.. He feels inadequate information between these 
impacted on his credit rating. I dont accept this. I dont doubt Mr Gs comments he 
had good relationships with local bank branches, but I cant see that had  any  
bearing on the administration of his credit card by Jaja.. 
I also appreciate Mr Gs comments on the limitations of travel caused by the 
pandemic. That might explain why Mr G didnt get home to receive his post . But it 
wouldnt have prevented him either having post forwarded to him or accessing his 
account by other means to check himself the status of his account.
Jaja has offered Mr G £150 compensation as it doesnt feel a letter sent to Mr G 
about his complaint in August 2020 was accurate. Having read that letter I would 
agree. It seems Mr Gs complaint was originally seen as an issue of duplicate 
reporting of a debt on his credit file not a request to remove  all defaults and the debt 
assigned status. I think that is a reasonable offer given the inconvenience doubtless 
caused by not initially properly addressing Mr Gs complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Jaja Finance Limited should pay Mr G £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience of not initially addressing his complaint correctly.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman