DRN-2916305
The complaint
Mr C complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
After being involved in an accident, Mr C contacted Watford Insurance to claim on his policy. 
Mr C told Watford Insurance that hed been driving home from work at the time. Watford 
Insurance told Mr C his policy didnt cover him for commuting and decided to cancel the 
cover, because hed driven his car for a purpose that was excluded under the policy. 
Watford Insurance said Mr C had selected cover for social, domestic and pleasure only. The 
insurer told Mr C that it would deal with any third-party claims and follow up with him for any 
premiums or balance he owed. Mr C says Watford Insurance decided his car was a total loss 
and advised him to arrange to repair or scrap it himself.
Mr C complained to Watford Insurance saying he made a mistake when selecting the level of 
cover at the time he took out the policy. Mr C says he believed comprehensive cover would 
provide a suitable level of cover and that hed been open and honest about the purpose of 
his journey when asked by the insurer  so he felt Watford Insurance unfairly cancelled his 
policy. 
Watford Insurance responded saying it was Mr Cs responsibility to select the appropriate 
level of cover and to check his insurance documents to ensure everything was correct. The 
insurer acknowledged Mr Cs error and referred to its terms, which allow it to cancel the 
policy if Mr C drives his car for a purpose thats not permitted. 
So Mr C asked this service to step in and review the matter. Mr C added that he was 
unhappy that Watford Insurance decided his car was a total loss just by examining the 
pictures hed taken of the damage caused by the accident. Mr C also says Watford 
Insurance handled the claim poorly - referring to a call with the insurer, where he says he 
was accused of lying and was treated inappropriately. 
Mr C adds that the insurer has been chasing him to pay outstanding premiums and that hes 
suffered stress and anxiety. He also says his studies have been affected and hes made a 
loss because he had to sell his car for lower than its value because of the insurers advice. 
Mr C remains concerned about the impact on his insurance record and his credit file.
Our investigator concluded that Watford Insurance should reinstate the policy and deal with 
the claim. The investigator was satisfied that Mr C made a genuine mistake and hadnt done 
anything to mislead the insurer. Our investigator decided that Watford Insurance wouldnt 
have been prejudiced by Mr Cs usage of his car, given the insurer told us that it couldve 
covered him for commuting for no additional premium. The investigator added that he could 
see how Mr C interpreted the insurers advice into an instruction to sell his car and that it 
was unfair to determine the car as a total loss based on images alone. After listening to the 
relevant call recording, the investigator acknowledged why Mr C felt he was treated 
inappropriately but didnt think the insurer had done something wrong during this call.
Watford Insurance disagreed with the investigators findings commenting that Mr C simply 
chose the wrong level of cover. The insurer also offered to remove the cancellation from 
Mr Cs records. As Watford Insurance didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators thoughts on this complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt a matter of dispute as to the level of cover Mr C had under this policy. When he 
applied, he selected social, domestic and pleasure and this is what the policy covered him 
for. So, under the strict application of the terms of the policy, Mr C isnt covered for the 
accident given he was travelling from work at the time. But my role allows me to have 
consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  which is what Ive gone 
on to do.  
I agree that, in this instance, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) doesnt apply here for the same reason as what Watford Insurance has said  
the issue here isnt that Mr C didnt correctly disclose his circumstances, but just that he 
didnt select the appropriate level of cover that he needed. Mr C shouldve selected the level 
of cover to include commuting so that hed be covered for driving to and from work. 
But keeping fairness in mind, Ive considered what Mr C has said  which is that this was the 
first policy hed taken out alone and he believed comprehensive cover would be suitable for 
him. Mr C says he didnt intend to deceive the insurer and that he was open about the 
purpose of his journey  having listened to the relevant call, Im satisfied Mr C offered up this 
information without hesitation. So it seems to me that Mr C was under a misunderstanding 
when he took out the policy and this is no more than a careless mistake on his part.
Although CIDRA doesnt apply here, Ive kept its principles in mind. When we asked, 
Watford Insurance said it wouldve covered Mr C and charged him the same premium had 
he opted to be covered for commuting. So, as our investigator pointed out, the insurer 
wouldnt have suffered a detriment, had the required level of cover been selected by Mr C.
So I think the fairest way to resolve this matter is for Watford Insurance to reinstate the 
policy and settle Mr Cs claim in line with its remaining terms and conditions.
Mr C remains unhappy that Watford Insurance decided his car was a total loss based on 
only the pictures hed taken after the accident. I can see from Watford Insurances internal 
notes that it did indeed inform Mr C that his car was a total loss. But I cant see anything that 
tells me why it reached this conclusion. Nor does any of the information Ive seen suggest 
that the insurer carried out a proper assessment of the damage to Mr Cs car before 
reaching this conclusion. 
I note that Watford Insurance wasnt looking to settle the claim at the time, so its reasonable 
that it wouldnt have incurred the expense of carrying out an assessment of the damage to 
Mr Cs car. But I dont think it was fair for the insurer to reach the conclusion that the car was 
a total loss and advise Mr C of this without having carried out an actual assessment. 
Mr C has since sold his car for what he says was much lower than its actual value  which 
he says he did so after receiving advice from Watford Insurance that he should scrap his car. 
I can see from the insurers notes and the calls Ive listened to that Mr C was advised to either repair or scrap his car. I cant say for certain that Mr Cs decision to sell his car was 
based solely on the advice he received from Watford Insurance. So I cant fairly say that 
Watford Insurance acted unfairly in relation to this. But, given the insurers decision and 
advice that the car was a total loss, I think its likely Mr C felt he had no choice but to sell his 
car for lower than its value.
So as part of any settlement, Watford Insurance should take this into account.
Mr C also complains that one of the insurers representatives provided him with a poor level 
of service over the phone. Mr C says the representative accused him of lying and spoke to 
him inappropriately. Ive listened to the call and I cant agree with Mr Cs description of how 
he was treated. During the call, Mr C did explain that he felt the call handler sounded 
arrogant, but the representative was quick to apologise for giving this impression. So I wont 
be asking Watford Insurance to do anything differently in relation Mr Cs concerns about this 
call.
To summarise, I think Watford Insurance unfairly cancelled Mr Cs policy. In my opinion, 
Mr C made a careless mistake and, given the insurer wouldve covered him for commuting 
without any change to the premium it would charge, I think the fairest resolution here is to 
reinstate Mr Cs policy and settle his claim.
Putting things right
To put things right Watford Insurance should:
Reinstate Mr Cs policy and settle his claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions
Remove the cancellation and any other adverse information that has been recorded 
against Mr Cs name 
Any settlement paid to Mr C for his car should reflect the market value of his car at 
the time of the incident
Add 8% simple interest from the date the policy was cancelled up until the date of 
settlement
Watford Insurance can deduct any excess or premiums owed from the settlement it 
pays as well as deduct the amount Mr C received from the sale of his car
Distress and inconvenience
Mr C says hes suffered stress and anxiety because of Watford Insurances decision to 
cancel his policy and not settle the claim. He also says his studies have been affected and 
hes been left concerned about the impact of having the cancellation recorded against his 
name. I also note that Mr C has continued being pursued for the balance he owes to the 
insurer, despite assurances that this action would be placed on hold until our service 
concludes this matter. This has caused further distress to Mr C.
I agree with our investigators conclusion that Watford Insurance should pay Mr C £200 
compensation in addition to any settlement it makes in relation to the claim.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited should settle this 
complaint in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.   
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman