DRN-1631842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS), associated with their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with BOS in 1997 when then moved to a new house. At 
this time, they also took out a PPI policy to provide cover for accident, sickness or 
unemployment (AS&U) for Mr S only. This PPI policy was cancelled in 2000 when the 
mortgage was redeemed.
Mr and Mrs S complained to BOS that this PPI policy was mis-sold but BOS hasnt upheld 
their complaint that the PPI taken out in 1997 was mis-sold
BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on any 
of the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that the mortgage Mr and Mrs S took out 
didnt fall within the rules and guidance introduced about this. Therefore, BOS said no refund 
for excess commission and profit share was due.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with what BOS said so brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and what BOS had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Mr and Mrs S are concerned about possible PPI taken out with a mortgage prior to 1997 with 
another business that is part of the BOS group of companies. If Mr and Mrs S have concerns 
about this other mortgage, if they had PPI with it and what they have been told by BOS 
about this, they would need to take that up separately with BOS as it relates to a separate 
mortgage and possible policy. If this was raised before 29 August 2019 with BOS this again 
should be taken up with BOS. 
In this decision I am only considering the complaint about the PPI policy sold alongside the 
mortgage Mr and Mrs S took out in 1997 with BOS and if this PPI policy was mis-sold.
This service is an informal dispute resolution service which aims to reach a fair and 
reasonable solution to complaints. Our decisions are made based on the evidence available 
as presented by both parties. Where a complaint is made that PPI is mis-sold, a decision 
has to be made on the balance of probabilities from the evidence provided as to whether the 
PPI was or wasnt mis-sold. That decision will then determine if any compensation is due to 
be paid or not. 
In this complaint Mr and Mrs S have been unable to provide any documentary evidence or 
records about what happened when they took out their mortgage and the PPI policy in 1997.  
This was some 23 years ago, so it isnt surprising they have not retained old records about 
the mortgage and PPI. 
It also is not surprising that BOS also only has limited records available about the mortgage 
and PPI application, again because it was made many years ago. BOS has been able to 
provide some computer screen shots with some summary information about the mortgage 
and PPI but has no specific documentary evidence available relating to the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI policy was mis-sold as they were pressured to buy it. They say 
they were told their credit rating wasnt good and understood if they didnt take the PPI they 
wouldnt get the mortgage which they desperately needed. If not pressured to have it, they 
say they wouldnt have bought it. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they also would not have taken out cover only for Mr S when the 
mortgage was in joint names. Mr S says he had a good job which paid full pay for three 
months if he was off sick and then paid a reduced amount for another three months. Also, 
that if they had any problems, family would have helped them pay their mortgage. 
The mortgage and PPI were applied for in branch and it is impossible to know exactly what 
was said at that meeting. Mr and Mrs S say they were pressured into taking out the PPI as 
they wanted to get their mortgage. I have seen no evidence about their credit rating at the 
time and if this was mentioned in the meeting as Mr and Mrs S recall. I also know that BOS 
had processes in place and forms would have been completed for the mortgage and also the 
PPI.
After the application was made documents would have been sent out to Mr and Mrs S with 
their mortgage offer and about the PPI from the insurer. The records from BOS indicate a 
separate direct debit was set up for the PPI to be taken from Mr and Mrs S bank account. 
I cannot know for certain if any pressure was put on Mr and Mrs S to take out the PPI in the 
meeting. But taking into account all the processes that would have been completed I think 
Mr and Mrs S did agree to take out the PPI. And if they had felt very strongly at the time that 
they didnt want it they could have cancelled the policy within a period without any costs. 
So whilst I accept what was said to Mr and Mrs S may have felt like pressure in a meeting, I 
cannot be sure, based on the evidence I have seen, that Mr and Mrs S didnt choose to take 
it out because they also felt it may have been of some benefit to them.
The computer data provided by BOS indicates that the PPI was agreed to and the cover 
selected was to cover Mr S only for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment. Their incomes 
are also recorded, and Mr S was earning substantially more than Mrs S at the time.
As the cover they took out was only to cover Mr S I think it most likely some discussion 
about this must have taken place as Mr and Mrs S made decisions about the type of cover 
and who it was to cover. It is possible with PPI to have joint cover where both mortgage 
applicants have cover on a proportionate basis of the benefit. Here Mr and Mrs S chose 
100% for Mr S. The cost for the cover only for Mr S, was the same as it would have been for 
a joint policy on a proportionate basis for them both, as cost is based on the amount of 
benefit in total. I know Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken out cover only for Mr S when this was a 
joint mortgage. But this is not uncommon to cover the party with the principle income if there 
is a difference. Mrs S also benefited from this cover, as if Mr S had made a claim because 
he wasnt working because of sickness or unemployment, the agreed benefit would have 
been paid for the mortgage and Mrs S was jointly liable for the mortgage. As Mrs S was, as 
recorded, earning substantially less than Mr S, it is most likely the PPI was recommended 
solely to cover Mr S as the loss of his income would have had the major impact on paying 
their mortgage and bills. 
So, I think it is most likely some discussion took place with Mr and Mrs S about their 
circumstances at the meeting in relation to the PPI and I think Mr and Mrs S should have 
been aware at the time they had some choices and they selected the cover they wanted.
From the limited information available and from Mr and Mrs S recollections about their 
circumstances, it seems Mr S was eligible for the cover they took out. He was in full time 
employment with no unusual employment conditions. 
I have also considered if the policy was suitable for Mr S, as he was the only one covered by 
it.  I cannot be sure if full details and any restrictions of the policy were explained in any 
detail to Mr and Mrs S. So, I have looked at the information provided from the records of 
BOS, and by Mr and Mrs S from their recollections, to see if any restrictions would have 
affected any claim by Mr S and so may have affected the decision whether or not to take out 
the PPI.
There is nothing to indicate that Mr S had any pre-existing medical conditions that would 
have affected any claim for sickness, and he was employed with no unusual employment 
circumstances. Mr S would have had some employment sickness benefits if he had been off 
work sick and he may have received a basic redundancy payment if made unemployed. But 
the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits or redundancy payment. 
And the PPI would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could have been a difficult 
time if Mr S was not working for any reason. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they would have had savings of around £1,000 at the time. But 
again, savings could have been needed for other living expenses and may have been 
essential if Mr S was not working and they had to rely on Mrs Ss income. 
I have seen nothing to show Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. I note Mr and Mrs S say they could have relied on family to help, but 
circumstances for family can also change quickly and having their mortgage paid by the 
policy for 12 months if they had needed to claim would have been reassuring. So I think the 
PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if something went wrong and Mr S was unable 
to work for any reason. 
The cost and benefit would have been set out at the time of sale, and as I have already 
indicated Mr and Mrs S made some choices about the benefits and cover they wanted. So 
overall, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold as Mr and Mrs S made choices about taking 
it out and could have benefitted in full if they had needed to claim. The cost was also 
reasonable when considering the benefits chosen and there is nothing to indicate the PPI 
was unaffordable.
In summary, its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale of 
the PPI policy wasnt as clear as it couldve been. But I think Mr and Mrs S chose to take out 
the PPI, selecting who was covered and the benefit level they felt they needed - so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. And I dont think better information about the PPI policy would have had any impact on Mr and Mrs S decision to take out the cover as they were not 
affected by any restrictions at any time the policy was taken out.
It follows I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by BOS. 
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums needs to be refunded by BOS. However, the type of mortgage Mr and Mrs S took 
out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority 
relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded by BOS for 
the PPI policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax to Mr and Mrs S and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman