DRN-4417282
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way her motor insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) dealt with a claim she made on her policy after her cars rear windscreen 
was damaged.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Throughout the claim Mrs K was also 
dealing with other companies who act as Admirals agents. As Admiral has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes 
the actions of the agents.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs K made a claim on her policy with Admiral after her rear windscreen 
smashed into pieces when she closed her car door. Due to fears of damage to the car from 
the rain the car was put in storage by Admiral while waiting for the new windscreen to be 
fitted. 
Unfortunately, the windscreen repairers ordered the wrong windscreen and so another one 
had to be ordered which caused around four weeks worth of delays. Mrs K said she was 
without a car over this time.
 
Mrs K complained to Admiral about the delays and also because she said that some of the 
paint on her car came off and that this was caused by the recovery agents instructed by 
Admiral. She was also unhappy that the recovery agents wouldnt release the car to her but 
released it to another recovery agent to return to her.
 
Admiral upheld Mrs Ks complaint in part. It rejected the complaint about the damage to the 
cars paint. It said it passed the complaint to an inhouse engineer who said the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. The engineer also said that some of the chips to the bumper may 
have been caused by the broken glass. Admiral also rejected the complaint about the 
recovery agent not releasing the car back to Mrs K directly. It said this was because it had 
been instructed by another recovery agent (also instructed by Admiral) and so the car had to 
be released to the company that had made the instruction in order to avoid issues such as 
unpaid fees etc. 
Admiral accepted that there had been a delay regarding the windscreen being ordered and 
fitted. It said this was because it was only when the vehicle was on site that the repairers 
realised they had ordered the wrong part. They ordered the correct windscreen immediately 
thereafter but there were further delays caused due to the manufacturer having a backlog. 
So the delays werent caused by its repairers.
Admiral upheld the complaint about Mrs K being without a car for around four weeks and 
paid her £210 (£10 per day) for the loss of use of her car during that period. It also paid 
Mrs K a further £25 for failing to respond to her complaint within eight weeks.
Unhappy that Admiral didnt fully uphold her complaint, Mrs K complained to our service. Our 
investigator who reviewed the complaint initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
and mainly relied on Admirals engineers comments regarding the paint damage being down 
to wear and tear to do so. Mrs K then provided additional evidence which included a video 
made by the windscreen fitters and a report provided by a respraying expert. They both 
believed the damage was caused by the temporary screen that was stuck on to where the 
rear windscreen would have been and said the adhesive was likely to have caused the paint 
to come off. 
Our investigator issued a further view upholding the complaint and asking Admiral to 
compensate Mrs K for the damage or to arrange for the damage to be repaired. Our 
investigator put more weight on the evidence provided by Mrs K as it had been provided by 
experts who had inspected the car whereas Admirals engineer hadnt. And she thought the 
damage was caused by one of Admirals agents. 
Mrs K agreed with our investigator but she also wanted Admiral to pay for a hire car while 
hers was in for repairs. Shed been told the repairs would take three days.
Admiral asked for quotes and Mrs K provided a quote for £576 for the repairs and an 
additional £132 claim for hire costs. Our investigator provided these quotes to Admiral with a 
view to it paying these amounts to Mrs K but Admiral didnt agree. It said it was still relying 
on its engineers comments that its agents hadnt caused the damage and that this was 
down to pre-existing issues with the paint. 
Admiral asked for an ombudsmans decision and so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it for the same reasons as those provided by our 
investigator.
When Mrs K complained to us, she said that her main concern was the paint damage. She 
said her other complaints, which were mainly about delays, were made for the benefit of 
other customers who may not complain and have their voices heard. I agree with our 
investigator who told Mrs K that our organisation would only look at her specific complaint 
rather than consider the wider impact of Admirals actions on other customers. This would be 
the role of the regulator- the Financial Conduct Authority. 
For the reasons above, in this decision I will focus on Mrs Ks complaint about the damage to 
her car. But for completeness I will say that I think Admirals offer of £10 per day for the loss 
of use of Mrs Ks vehicle over that four-week delay is fair and reasonable and what I would 
have also likely awarded. Admiral has accepted that there was a four-week delay and even 
though it wasnt down to its agents I think it is fair that it has compensated Mrs K for being 
without a car over that period. In relation to the wrong windscreen being ordered I dont think 
it is something I would have looked to make a separate award for, as it seems to be a 
genuine mistake. And in any event the compensation I would have awarded for that would 
have been for the loss of use of the car; which Admiral already has done. In relation to 
Mrs Ks car not being released directly to her I accept Admirals reasoning about the 
recovery agent only releasing it to the company who instructed it. I think that is reasonable.
 
In relation to the paint damage, we have received statements from engineers and repairers 
as well as video footage. Two of those experts are in agreement with each other but one 
isnt. Admirals engineer initially said he believed the damage was more likely caused by wear and 
tear or by the glass shattering. He said it was a general wear and tear and paint adhesion 
issue and not damage.
Mrs K provided a video from the company instructed to fit the windscreen where the person 
inspecting the car said that the car was crash wrapped as the wrong windscreen had been 
ordered and that Mrs K had been made aware of the damage to the roof and side of the car. 
The windscreen repairer goes on to say that Mrs K will contact the person/company who has 
done this. The damage is visible in the video. Mrs K provided a supplementary email from 
the person who inspected the car. He said that the damage was due to the crash wrap and 
that this is what he also said in the video. He goes on to say that the crash wrap peeled the 
lacquer on the car. 
Mrs K also asked a mechanic who specialises in damage repair and spray painting to 
inspect the car and provide his comments. He said there was no doubt that the crash wrap 
caused the lacquer to lift. He added that the particular colour of the car does tend to lose 
lacquer adhesion over time, but a bit of common sense could have been applied when fitting 
the crash wrap. 
We provided Admiral with a copy of this evidence for its engineers comments. The engineer 
stood by his earlier comments and said that he didnt think that there was particularly good 
adhesion on the crash wrap to remove the paint unless there were pre-existing adhesion 
issues. So, he said the issue was probably caused by a pre-existing adhesion issue. He also 
said he had no knowledge of adhesion issues linked to the colour of the car. He concluded 
by saying that in relation to the comment about applying common sense this would have 
been the case had there been an indication of a pre-existing issue in which case, steps 
would have been taken to prevent the situation from getting worse. But that wasnt the case, 
so its agents attempts to protect the car were reasonable. 
I have considered all the expert evidence, and, like our investigator, I have given more 
weight to the evidence provided by the windscreen repairer and also the respraying expert, 
both provided by Mrs K. So, I think the cause of the damage was the application of the crash 
wrap which was done by Admirals agents. And for that reason, I think Admiral should be 
responsible for repairing this damage.
The reason why I preferred the evidence above to Admirals engineers evidence is twofold. 
Like our investigator, I think that the two experts who physically inspected the car were in a 
better position to comment on the cause of the damage. Secondly, I find the evidence of the 
respraying expert particularly persuasive, as he has the most relevant experience compared 
to the other two experts. 
I have considered Admirals argument that had there not been pre-existing issues with the 
paint, the damage would not have occurred. It said if it had been aware of this, it would have 
taken measures to avoid the damage. I havent seen enough evidence to convince me that 
there was pre-existing damage, though I note the respraying experts comments about the 
particular colour of the car generally being more susceptible to peeling off. But I think this 
was a general comment rather than specific to this car. But even if I had, I think this is a case 
where Admiral has to take the situation or the condition of the car as it finds it. And by that I 
mean that, in my view, in this particular situation and in these very specific circumstances, it 
is fair and reasonable that Admiral is responsible for the full extent of the damage even if the 
particular condition of the car made it more susceptible to this type of damage. Even if it 
wasnt aware of any pre-existing issues at the time. Ultimately, it was the action of Admirals 
agents (that of applying the crash wrap) that caused the damage.My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mrs K £576 for repairs which are necessary to her car and £132 
for her to hire a car while the repairs are ongoing. Alternatively, it can make arrangements 
with Mrs K for it to repair the car and provide her with a replacement car while the repairs are 
being completed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman