DRN-3348772
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr U.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr U disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr U has said HSBC didnt make him aware that taking the PPI was optional, when he 
agreed to the mortgage. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold the complaint on this point, unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence that this probably did happen. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 23 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Overall, there isnt the evidence to say HSBC failed to make clear the PPI was optional.  
Ive looked to see if there were other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold  but I dont see 
that there are. 
I think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr U, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Us 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Us situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr U was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr U received any employer 
sick pay. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr U would need to fall back on any 
savings or other means he may have had for paying the mortgages and other living 
costs. This all would have put Mr U in a more secure position if hed eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr U would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr U to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether Mr U took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely 
this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman