DRN-3157055
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Motability Operations Limited (MO) dealt with his collection of a 
replacement vehicle following the end of his existing contract hire agreement.
What happened
Mr T had been supplied with a car through a contract hire agreement with MO. In March 
2020, when this agreement was coming to an end, Mr T placed an order for a replacement 
vehicle, also through a contract hire agreement. He paid a £500 deposit to secure the order.
There was a delay in sourcing the replacement vehicle, partially caused by the national 
lockdown resulting from the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. However, on 15 October 
2020, the dealership contacted Mr T to let him know that the replacement vehicle would be 
ready for collection on 17 November 2020.
Another national lockdown affecting England was announced on 31 October 2020, imposed 
on 5 November 2020, and was scheduled to end on 2 December 2020. Mr T wanted to delay 
the collection until the lockdown had been lifted, as he didnt feel comfortable visiting the 
dealership, thought this would put him at risk medically, and thought it would cause him to 
breach the lockdown rules.
However, the dealership insisted that the collection take place as soon as possible. And told 
Mr T they had a click and collect service, which would limit his contact with their staff. And 
MO said they could appoint an additional driver on the agreement who could collect the 
replacement vehicle on his behalf. The car was collected by one of Mr Ts family members 
on 26 November 2020.
Mr T complained to MO about the pressure he was being put under to collect the 
replacement vehicle. MO investigated his concerns and offered him £100 for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused. Mr T wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
While Mr T had also raised other areas of complaint, he confirmed that he only remained 
dissatisfied with the collection arrangements. 
Our investigator said he thought the dealership and MO had put undue pressure on Mr T to 
collect the replacement vehicle at a time when he was already feeling nervous about doing 
so. And he thought the offer to allow someone else to collect on Mr Ts behalf, which wasnt 
offered until 19 November 2020, couldve been made sooner. And, if it had, Mr T mayve 
been able to make arrangements with a family member to do this earlier.
But the investigator also thought that MO and the dealership had acted reasonably by asking 
Mr T to pay the full advance payment, and sign the paperwork, before the end of November 
2020. This was because the dealership was time restricted and they had another dealer 
wanting to take the replacement vehicle from them.
So, the investigator recommended that MO pay Mr T an additional £150, in addition to the 
£100 already offered, for the stress and inconvenience Mr T had been caused.
Mr T agreed with the investigator and provided additional comments to clarify how he felt. 
However, MO didnt agree. They said that Mr T didnt mention the stress and anxiety he had 
collecting the replacement vehicle when he spoke to them in October 2020, and this wasnt 
raised until he spoke to them on 10 November 2020. 
They also said they didnt make the offer of someone else collecting on Mr Ts behalf until 19 
November 2020, because they thought Mr T had an agreement in place to collect the car in 
December 2020 up until this point. Because of this, they thought that the £100 already 
offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Because MO didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Ive seen MOs case notes for 10 November 2020 say that if 
Mr T does not want to/feel safe collecting vehicle we would not force him to collect vehicle. 
The notes also say that Mr T was within [his] rights not to pick vehicle up until December. 
However, the case notes are also clear that the dealership wasnt happy with this approach. 
The dealership said it would be safer for Mr T to collect the car sooner as they had limited 
staff working during the lockdown, but they would return to full staffing once the lockdown 
ended. And members of the public would also be on site. So, it wouldnt be possible to 
maintain the same social distancing that was currently in place.
The dealership also indicated that, if Mr T refused to collect the replacement vehicle in 
November 2020, they would sell it to someone else.
Despite the assurances given by MO that Mr T didnt need to collect the replacement vehicle 
until December 2020, he was also told that he could arrange for someone else to collect on 
his behalf. Which is what eventually happened, with a family member collecting the 
replacement vehicle for Mr T on 26 November 2020.
Mr T was shielding during the lockdown and didnt feel safe visiting the dealership to do click 
and collect. And he wasnt prepared to breach any rules as hed been told to stay at home by 
the Government. However, given the actions of the dealership and MO, he said he felt 
pressured into breaking the rules, putting himself at risk, and incurring a potential fine; or risk 
losing the car.Ive seen that MO said that Mr T didnt raise any of these issues with them when he spoke to 
them in October 2020 and didnt do so until 10 November 2020. However, the lockdown 
wasnt announced until 31 October 2020. So, Mr T wouldnt have had any concerns over the 
requirements to shield and stay at home during October 2020, because no such restrictions 
were in place. So, its reasonable that he would only raise his issues with MO on the first 
occasion he spoke to them after the restrictions were put in place.
Whats more, despite their notes saying that Mr T couldnt be forced to collect the car during 
the lockdown, and that he was within his rights to collect the car in December 2020; by 
pushing Mr T down the proxy collection route, MO didnt do this. Even though he was 
prepared (albeit reluctantly) to make the advance payment to secure the car before 
collection took place.
Given this, Im satisfied that both MO and the dealership put undue pressure to collect the 
car in November 2020, when such a collection wasnt strictly necessary. As such, Im 
satisfied that MO should do something to put this right.
Putting things right
MO have offered Mr T £100. And the investigator recommended that this should be 
increased to £250. MO have commented that theyve already paid Mr T compensation for 
other issues. But these issues are unrelated to the undue pressure put on him to collect the 
car. So, I dont consider these payments relevant to this complaint.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that MO put undue pressure on Mr T, despite their case 
notes to the contrary. And, if it hadnt already been recommended, Id be asking them to pay 
Mr T £250 for the impact it had on him.
So, MO should:
pay Mr T the £100 theyve already offered (if this hasnt already been paid), and
pay Mr T an additional £150 for the impact of the undue pressure put on him to 
collect the car during a lockdown period.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And Motability Operations Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman