DRN-4161676
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sporting Index Limited allowed him to open a spread betting account 
when it was inappropriate for him.
What happened
Mr D had an account with Sporting Index Limited. He placed a number of fixed odds bets but 
also incurred losses playing virtual games. Sporting Index explained the virtual games were 
a form of spread betting and Mr D complained. He explained that he was registered with 
GAMSTOP and wouldve failed any credit check. He said because of this he felt he shouldnt 
have been able to make spread bets.
Sporting Index Limited explained that Mr Ds account had access to both fixed odds and 
spread betting. It said it was limited risk which meant Mr D couldnt lose anything more 
than his initial deposit. It said it offers its services on an execution only basis and Mr D had 
confirmed hed read the risk statement and terms of the account. Sporting Index Limited said 
it closed Mr Ds account as soon as it was aware he was vulnerable so it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
I sent my provisional decision on 28 April 2023 setting out why I intended to uphold this 
complaint. The relevant extract, which forms part of this decision, is as follows:
GAMSTOP
Mr D has explained hes registered with GAMSTOP, which ought to prevent him from 
opening gambling accounts. Sporting Index Limited is registered with the Gambling 
Commission and has shown evidence that it checked the register but that Mr Ds details 
didnt show up. Our Investigator was satisfied there were differences in the way Mr D had 
input his information which meant his details didnt come up in the search. It hasnt been 
disputed that this is the reason Mr Ds GAMSTOP registration didnt come up in Sporting 
Index Limiteds check and so I find this wasnt Sporting Index Limiteds fault.
Should Mr D have been allowed to place spread bets?
The crux of this complaint is that Mr D incurred losses playing a virtual spread bet game. 
When Sporting Index Limited highlighted this to Mr D, he complained as he knew he didnt 
understand how spread bets worked. Ive thought about whether Sporting Index Limited has 
complied with regulations here.
The relevant regulations Ive taken into account here is COBS 10 which relates to a firm 
which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable securities, speculative illiquid 
securities, derivatives or warrants. In this case Sporting Index Limited arranges deals in 
relation to derivatives  contracts for differences, a future or an option. It arranges spread 
bets to enable its clients to bet that the future event would be better or worse than a 
prediction. And it settles that bet based on the difference realised as a result. In Mr Ds case, 
he was making spread bets based on a random number generator.
COBS 10.2 places clear obligations on firms to assess a consumers appropriateness before 
they open an account within which they can place spread bets. It obliges firms to ask its 
client to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the type of service it offers. And it obliges firms to determine whether the client 
has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved.
COBS 10.3 says If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to 
assess appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, 
the firm must warn the client.
Sporting Index Limited has told us that appropriateness questions were asked. Ive looked at 
the account opening procedure and I can see the following questions were asked:
Has experience with spread betting?  to which Mr D answered no.
Has read risk disclosure?  to which Mr D answered yes
Understands can lose more than deposit? to which Mr D answered yes
Has accepted terms and conditions?  to which Mr D answered yes.
COBS 10.2.1 says a firm must ask the client to provide information regarding his knowledge 
and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service 
offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product 
envisaged is appropriate for the client. But Sporting Index Limited merely asked Mr D 
whether he had experience with spread betting. Theres no other questions asked which 
would enable Sporting Index Limited to have assessed whether the account was appropriate 
for Mr D. However, Im mindful from the first question, its clear that Mr D had no experience. 
In situations such as these, its very likely that a firm would conclude that spread betting 
wasnt appropriate for Mr D. So, Ive considered what Sporting Index Limited then did.
I can see that it had a link to its Risk Disclosure Statement, and that Mr D confirmed hed 
read it. That disclosure statement refers to the types of risk relating to various features of its 
platform. But Ive seen no evidence that Sporting Index Limited told Mr D it had assessed 
that a spread betting account was inappropriate for him and warned him that he should not 
proceed. This is what is required under COBS 10.3  which was confirmed more recently by 
the FCA in 2017 in a review in which it said that firms should use clear language to 
communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for the applicant because 
the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant does not have the 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved, with a clear recommendation 
against proceeding with the transaction.
Ive not seen that Sporting Index Limited provided this warning to Mr D. I acknowledge its 
argument that it would only carry out that level of assessment if Mr D tried to remove the 
stop loss/win function from his account. However, Ive not seen anything from Sporting Index 
Limited, with reference to the specific COBS rules, as to why it wasnt obliged to carry this 
out for Mr Ds account  especially as it confirmed that all new accounts, including Mr Ds, 
give access to spread betting. If it believes that these regulations do not apply to this 
account I invite it to explain, with reference to specific COBS regulations, as to why that is 
the case in response to this decision.
Detriment to Mr D
Ive thought carefully about what position Mr D would be in had Sporting Index Limited not 
made an error. I understand that Mr D would like the losses hes incurred through spread 
betting back, but realistically this account would always have enabled Mr D to place spread 
bets as Sporting Index Limited has said all its new accounts do.
In my view, Sporting Index Limited ought to have assessed that a spread betting account 
was inappropriate for Mr D and provided a sufficient warning that this was the case, warning 
him that he shouldnt proceed. Had that been the case, Im not persuaded Mr D wouldve 
opened this account. I say this because his immediate reaction to being told he was placing 
spread bets was to complain, explaining he didnt understand how they worked. Im also 
mindful that hes vulnerable and registered with GAMSTOP. As such, I dont think its likely hed have taken an account where he could risk losing everything hes deposited with spread 
bets  something hes explained he doesnt understand.
So, to put things right, I think Mr D ought to be put in the position hed have been in had he 
not opened the account. As such, all transactions he made in his account (inclusive of the 
fixed odds bets) should be reversed. If there is a loss, this should be refunded to Mr D.
Ive thought about whether interest should be awarded on this refund. However, Im not 
persuaded that Mr D wouldve kept hold of this money, I think its likely it wouldve been used 
for similar purposes to some of his other transactions. As such, I dont think it would be fair 
for Sporting Index Limited to pay Mr D interest on the refund.
I do think Mr D has been caused some distress by Sporting Index Limiteds error, and I think 
the £150 compensation recommended by our Investigator is fair and reasonable. Its clear 
that finding out he was exposed to spread betting caused Mr D concern for which I think the 
recommended compensation is fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D accepted the provisional decision. Sporting Index Limited provided additional 
comments to be considered. These can be summarised as follows:
- Its appropriateness assessment was more thorough than outlined in the provisional 
decision. It also assessed Mr Ds employment status and nature of work. It believed 
his role as an analyst implies financial understanding.
- It performed an affordability check on Mr D.
- It didnt issue a warning of inappropriateness as per COBS 10.3 as it believed it 
wasnt required in this specific situation. This is because it had assessed the limited 
risk spread betting account was appropriate for Mr D.
- Sporting Index Limited employs this approach as industry standard practice for 
inexperienced traders, allowing them to gain exposure and understanding of spread 
betting within a controlled risk environment. Without this approach, it believes new 
traders would be excluded from understanding and accessing spread betting 
services.
Mr D later submitted further comments to say that his work doesnt require financial 
understanding and that he doesnt understand what a stop loss function is. He maintains the 
account posed too high a risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Sporting Index Limiteds response and Ive addressed its points 
below.
Ive noted that it obtained information on Mr Ds employment  but this still isnt sufficient to 
assess whether a spread betting account is appropriate for him. Id also disagree that Mr Ds 
job title implies any financial understanding as it has said. COBS requires Sporting Index 
Limited to ask Mr D details about his experience in the investment field relevant to the 
specific type of service it is providing. In this case its a spread betting service, and the only 
question that related to Mr Ds knowledge and experience in this field was Has experience 
with spread betting?  to which Mr D answered no.
Sporting Index Limited said that it felt it had sufficient information to deem the account 
appropriate for Mr D, and so it didnt issue a warning as set out in COBS 10.3. It said that 
given the limited risk with this specific account, it felt it was appropriate for Mr D. Ive thought 
very carefully about this.COBS 10.2.2 says When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether 
the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded.
Ive covered off in my provisional decision why I dont think Sporting Index Limited asked 
sufficient questions to understand Mr Ds knowledge and experience. But in any event, it 
was clear that he didnt have any experience in spread betting. I understand the service 
being offered to Mr D was for limited risk spread betting  which Sporting Index Limited has 
explained has built in stop losses to ensure Mr D doesnt lose any more than the money he 
has in his account. But Im not persuaded that Mr D had the knowledge or experience to 
understand the risks of this account. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the bets Mr D made using Sporting Index Limiteds virtual spread bet games. 
Im satisfied that this isnt akin to a fixed odds betting account  which is what Sporting Index 
Limited has said. Mr D could place a spread bet with a specific stake and still lose any 
available balance he has in his account  even under this limited risk account. He could 
lose up to the amount hes got available rather than just the stake he placed on the virtual 
game. I dont think he understood how this worked  which is clear from his emails relating 
to it. And given hed told Sporting Index Limited that he had no knowledge or experience in 
spread betting, it ought to have provided him with the warning in line with COBS 10.3. Had it 
done this, I think it wouldve alerted Mr D that he was opening account with more risk than 
he was comfortable taking and he wouldnt have proceeded.
I do note that Sporting Index Limited believes that without its approach, inexperienced 
traders would be excluded from understanding and accessing spread betting services but I 
disagree. Clients are often able to access provided theres been sufficient warning, and there 
are a number of demo accounts and educational tools out there to gain some experience 
and exposure. In any event, Im not persuaded that Sporting Index Limited complied with the 
regulations in this specific case. It didnt ask sufficient questions to Mr D to understand his 
experience and knowledge in relation to spread betting, and even with the limited information 
that it had, it ought to have provided a warning to Mr D given he had no experience. It didnt 
do this, and because of this Mr D was able to open an account that led to him making 
transactions he didnt have the knowledge to understand. And had he been warned, I dont 
think its likely hed have opened the account. So Ive reached the same findings as set out 
in my provisional decision  the relevant extract of which is copied above and forms part of 
this decision.
Putting things right
Sporting Index Limited must do the following:
- Reverse all transactions Mr D made in his account with it and, if theres a loss, refund 
that to Mr D.
- Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sporting Index Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman