The complaint
Mr G complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr G took out three Mr Lender loans between August 2017 and May 2018.
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date Take
nDate
Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repaym
ent Defer
rals
102/08/2017 14/12/2017 5 £200.00 £96.00
214/12/2017 10/05/2018 3 £300.00 £162.40 2
312/05/2018 29/08/2019 6 £500.00 £179.33
Mr G said that when he took out these loans he was already struggling to pay other debt and 
Mr Lender didnt check the information he provided. Mr G felt that Mr Lender shouldve seen 
from his credit report that he was repeatedly taking out loans and realised then that he 
couldnt afford this borrowing. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Mr Lender told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide 
loans 1 and 2 to Mr G. But he said that by loan 3 Mr Lender could see that Mr G had shown 
signs that he was struggling to repay his previous loans. Thats because loans 2 and 3 were 
taken with little or no gap after the repayment of the previous loan and for a higher sum in 
each case  and as well Mr G had been unable to pay loan 2 on time. In these 
circumstances, our adjudicator felt there was a significant risk Mr G wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his repayments for loan 3. So he set out some detailed instructions about 
what Mr Lender should do to put things right.  
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that it did carry out 
proportionate checks each time Mr G asked to borrow. It told us that prior to missing a 
payment Mr G had told Mr Lender that his wallet had been stolen abroad and he needed to 
obtain a new card to make his payment. Mr Lender also said that it was important to take 
DRN-1924184into account that the repayments for loan 3 werent significantly bigger than the repayments 
on loan 2  and they worked out at less than 15% of his net monthly income as the loan was 
arranged over a longer term.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender provided Mr G with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Mr Lender was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to lend Mr G loan 1. As this was his first loan with Mr 
Lender, at this early stage, Mr G didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve 
alerted Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. The information Mr Lender had 
gathered about Mr Gs finances suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing and 
he repaid this loan on time. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr G provided or the other information 
Mr Lender had recorded, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Mr G had declared. 
So I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr G took out the second loan the same day he paid loan 1  and he borrowed half as much 
again as the loan hed just repaid. But I dont think that was enough on its own to make Mr 
Lender think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Mr G. 
There was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see and hed 
paid loan 1 without showing any signs this was difficult for him. According to the information 
Mr G provided and what Mr Lender knew about his financial situation, the repayments on 
this loan still looked comfortably affordable for Mr G.
So, even though he later had problems making the repayments for this loan on time, I don't 
think there was anything to make Mr Lender think that Mr G would find it hard to manage the 
loan repayments on loan 2 when he signed up to this loan. This means I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
This was the second time Mr G had taken out a new and bigger loan very quickly after 
repaying the previous loan. And looking at his repayment record on loan 2, Mr G had twice 
deferred making the repayments hed signed up to at the start and he was two months late 
paying loan 2.  
I think this ought to have made Mr Lender question Mr Gs need for this loan and it shouldve 
looked further into Mr Gs circumstances when he took out loan 3. 
It looks like Mr Lender did specifically ask Mr G what the money was needed for and 
whether he was having any money problems and Mr G provided responses that I think Mr 
Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on. 
I accept that in reality Mr Gs financial situation mightnt have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained. But despite having 
asked Mr G to provide us with more information about his financial circumstances when he 
took out loan 3, he hasnt sent us anything further. 
So looking at the information available to me, I dont feel I can fairly say that as a responsible 
lender, had it done proportionate checks, then Mr Lender shouldnt have agreed this loan. 
This means that, as things stand, I dont think Ive seen enough to say that Mr Lender was 
wrong to lend loan 3 to Mr G  and so Im not planning to uphold Mr Gs complaint about this 
loan. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr G but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr G hasnt said anything further in response to my provisional decision 
Mr Lender has confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and hasnt made any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman