DRN-2542418
The complaint
Mr W complains that BISL Limited, trading as Dial Direct, wouldnt at first change his motor 
insurance policy from his old vehicle to his new vehicle because of an outstanding payment. 
I will refer to the business as Dial Direct to avoid confusion as this was the name used on Mr 
Ws insurance documents. 
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy arranged by Dial Direct. He paid for his insurance in 
monthly instalments. Mr W bought a new vehicle and rang Dial Direct to change the 
insurance from the old vehicle to the new one. The call handler said he couldnt do this 
because Mr W had missed the most recent monthly payment and would need to pay this 
before the change could be made. Mr W said he couldnt afford to do so until he got paid. Mr 
W then asked to cancel the policy, but was told there would be a cancellation fee, which he 
said he wouldnt pay.
Mr Ws new vehicle was seized by the police for being uninsured. To get it back Mr W 
needed to arrange insurance for it, so he rang Dial Direct again. The person he spoke to on 
this occasion said she could make the change that day without Mr W paying the outstanding 
missed payment or any extra fees.
Mr W was unhappy that the first person he spoke to hadnt done this, so he complained to 
Dial Direct. He said the failure to change his insurance in the first call meant his new vehicle 
was seized and he had to pay a fine and costs to get it back. He also got penalty points on 
his driving licence. Mr W wanted Dial Direct to compensate him, and give him a letter to say 
he actually had valid insurance when the vehicle was seized. Dial Direct said that the first 
call handler had done nothing wrong, and had waived the failed payment fee to help Mr W. 
Dial Direct did acknowledge some delay in dealing with Mr Ws complaint, and paid him £20. 
Mr W was not happy with this response, and complained again to Dial Direct. Dial Direct said 
Mr Ws policy had been in a cancellation cycle because of missed payments, and changes 
to the policy should only have been made if the outstanding balance was paid by credit or 
debit card. Dial Direct said that the error occurred during the second call and the call handler 
shouldnt have made the change without taking a payment.
Dial Direct said it wouldnt be paying Mr W any compensation as his decision to drive the 
vehicle with no insurance was outside its control. Dial Direct wouldnt provide the letter Mr W 
asked for as it said he didnt have valid insurance for the new vehicle when it was seized.
Mr W was unhappy with Dial Directs response and so he complained to this service. He said 
he wanted Dial Direct to pay him compensation and give him the letter to show the police. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
said it was Mr Ws responsibility to make sure his vehicle was insured, which I understand 
Mr W accepts. The investigator said that the second person Mr W spoke to at Dial Direct 
should have taken the payment before asking for the block on his account to be removed, so 
he benefitted from her oversight. The investigator said that the first person Mr W spoke to 
hadnt made a mistake in asking for the payment before making the change of vehicle. So 
the investigator didnt ask Dial Direct to do anything.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators response, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. Mr W says that as the second person he spoke to at Dial Direct was 
able to make the change without taking a payment, the first person should have done so. Mr 
W says that this happened during the COVID pandemic and the first call handler should 
have realised why he couldnt make the payment. Mr W says Dial Directs training and 
processes are wrong.
After making this complaint, Mr W made another complaint to Dial Direct and then to this 
service, because his policy for the new vehicle was cancelled for non-payment. My decision 
doesnt cover that. That issue will be considered by this service in a different complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. I will explain why.
I have seen copies of documents sent to Mr W by Dial Direct about his insurance for the first 
vehicle.
Important Information about Our Insurance Intermediary Services says
Cancellation fee
If either you or We cancel more than 14 days after receiving your policy documentation We 
will charge you a fee of £60 plus the cost for the period of cover you have benefitted from.
The motor policy says 
Cancellation
Where we cancel your policy
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such as non-payment.
Mr Ws loan agreement for the monthly insurance policy payments (with a different 
company) says 
Payments
1. You must make all payments due under this Agreement in full and on time.
The Pre-Contract Credit Information says 
3. Costs of the credit
Consequences of missing payments
If you fail to pay what is owed, we may instruct BISL to cancel your Policy
I have listened to recordings of the two phone calls Mr W made to Dial Direct. The first call 
handler said he couldnt make the change because there was an outstanding payment. This 
meant the policy had gone into the cancellation cycle and it would be cancelled in a short 
time if the outstanding payment wasnt made. Mr W said hed be able to make the payment 
on a date a couple of weeks in the future. The call handler said he could waive the late 
payment fee but the outstanding payment needed to be made before the change. Mr W asked to cancel the policy and was told there would be a cancellation fee. Mr W said he 
wouldnt be paying a cancellation fee and ended the call without any further discussion.
In the second call Mr W spoke to a different person. Mr W said he couldnt afford to pay 
before because of COVID but he could now pay the outstanding instalment. The call handler 
spoke to a colleague then said she had waived the late payment fee and stopped the policy 
cancelling. She said the missed payment would be asked for in a few days time, or she 
could take it then. Mr W asked if it could be taken on the future date. The call handler told 
him he had nothing to pay that day, and she would change the vehicle immediately. She also 
waived the £20 amendment fee for the inconvenience.
Mr W had missed payments before on this policy. The terms and conditions of his policy 
made it clear that missed payments would incur a fee and could result in the policy being 
cancelled. I cant see anything in the policy documents explaining that missing a payment 
would mean changes couldnt be made. However this was explained by the first call handler.
Mr W later said that he had missed the payment because of COVID, but he didnt mention 
this to the first person he spoke to. So I cant say Dial Direct failed to take this into account, 
as Mr W didnt say anything at the time. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Dial Direct not to make the change during the first call 
as there was an outstanding payment. This was explained to Mr W but unfortunately he 
ended the call without having any discussion about what he might be able to do next. An 
error was made during the second call, but this was to Mr Ws benefit as he was able to get 
insurance for his new vehicle without making a payment. Dial Direct also waived the late 
payment fees and the amendment fee.
I dont think it was Dial Directs fault that Mr Ws new vehicle was seized. It was Mr Ws 
responsibility to ensure he had the necessary insurance. So I wont be asking Dial Direct to 
pay him any compensation. Mr W didnt have valid insurance for the new vehicle when it was 
seized, so I wont be asking Dial Direct to provide the letter he is asking for. It isnt the role of 
this service to regulate how businesses conduct themselves. We look at individual 
complaints. So I cant say that Dial Directs training or processes are wrong, or ask it to 
change them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman