DRN-1986599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed an online transfer they tried to make 
to their joint account held elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C tried to make an online payment of £15,000 from their Lloyds current account 
to their own joint account with a different bank. This payment was flagged by Lloyds 
automated system as potentially fraudulent and was blocked for further checks. Lloyds 
asked Mr and Mrs C to contact it about the payment. 
Mr and Mrs C say that it was a normal transaction for their account, and they would have 
recognised a fraudulent transaction. They found the banks security check process stressful 
and frustrating. They consider the banks questions were inappropriate and were asked for 
the banks benefit rather than their protection.
Lloyds said that it has processes in place for the security of all its customers accounts. 
When Mr C tried to make the online transfer, the payment was flagged by its fraud systems 
for a security check. It then needed to verify the payment as genuine before releasing it.
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that Lloyds 
had treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly by carrying out additional security checks on the payment.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. In summary, they consider the banks actions to be unjustified 
when it blocked a plausible and valid transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that when Lloyds delayed the transfer Mr and Mrs C attempted to make it was 
an inconvenient and frustrating experience. But having considered everything they and 
Lloyds have said, I agree with the investigators view, for broadly the same reasons. I 
understand Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision, so Ill explain why I have 
come to this conclusion.
Its important that businesses like Lloyds have processes and procedures in place to try and 
identify payments that arent genuine. Its the nature of processes like these that genuine 
customers, like Mr and Mrs C, may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say that 
Lloyds shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as it did here. 
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Where it suspects fraud it must take positive action on a customers 
behalf. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To do so, a 
bank may delay a transfer if it thinks it may be fraudulent or that someone has attempted to 
make it without the account holders permission.
I know Mr and Mrs C dispute that Lloyds needed to subject this particular transfer to a 
security check because they said they were simply transferring funds to an account in their 
own name with another bank. They say that this wasnt unusual activity for their account.
While Mr and Mrs C may have been able to transfer money successfully on other occasions, 
the issue here is their inability to make this specific transfer, which was flagged by Lloyds 
Banks automated fraud prevention system. So, further checks were needed to confirm 
whether the transfer was genuine.
For security reasons Lloyds has not told Mr and Mrs C in exactly why this happened, and nor 
would I have expected it to. But Mr and Mrs Cs account terms and conditions allow for this 
to happen. Im satisfied that Lloyds had legitimate reason to investigate the transfer before it 
could be released. In delaying the payment Lloyds was trying to safeguard Mr and Mrs Cs 
account from potential fraud and unauthorised access. 
I cant fairly criticise any bank for having processes in place to check the authenticity of 
online transfers. This is just as much for a Mr and Mrs Cs protection as it is for Lloyds. The 
payment was for a large amount and Lloyds has said that this was unusual activity for their 
account. It also said it had detected that the device used to make the payment had some 
remote access application on it. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds considered 
further checks to protect Mr and Mrs Cs account were necessary on this occasion.
I recognise that Mr C wasnt happy about the way Lloyds dealt with the security check and I 
have taken account of all the points Mr and Mrs C have made about this. Mr C told Lloyds 
that they made the transfer and it was going to their own account with another bank and 
thought that should be enough. Ive listened to the calls and, whilst I think the advisor 
perhaps could have shown a little empathy about the situation, I dont think he acted unfairly. 
Its for a business to put procedures in place to protect customers finances and prevent 
fraud so far as possible. As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried 
out, that is a matter for Lloyds to decide. It was following a procedure thats designed to 
protect both customers and the bank. And I dont think the amount of time it took to sort 
things out was unreasonable or disproportionate in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C have subsequently suggested that it may be in the banks interest to delay 
making such transfers in order to maximise its profits and by doing this it has breached the 
relationship of trust. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
The law also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing that the payment instruction 
was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its customer or the payment hasnt been 
properly authorised by its customer. So, as a matter of good industry practice, banks should 
take proactive steps to look to identify and help prevent such transactions - particularly 
unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, as Ive already explained, I consider Lloyds had legitimate reason to check that 
Mr and Mrs Cs transfer was genuine and was being made by them. 
Mr and Mrs C want an assurance from Lloyds that it wont subject any further payments they 
make from their account to a fraud check. But Lloyds duty to safeguard its customers accounts and be vigilant against fraud means it cant offer that guarantee.
I understand Mr and Mrs C feel very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I 
can understand that this was an inconvenient and distressing experience for them, 
especially given that the transaction was genuine. But overall, Im satisfied Lloyds followed 
its own policy on security checks for online transfers. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an 
error when it subjected the online payment Mr and Mrs C had wanted to make to a security 
check.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Karen Wharton
Ombudsman