DRN-3783788
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has rejected his claim for treatment for his dog on the ground that her medical condition was 
pre-existing at the start of his policy.
 
What happened
Mr N acquired his pet dog, who Ill refer to as M, on 16 February 2020. On 20 February, M 
had a veterinary check-up. The vet noted that M had a reduceable hernia and recommended 
that this be monitored.
Mr N took out a policy with C&G to insure M on 1 March 2020.
At another check-up on 18 December 2021, Mr N and the vet discussed a repair to Ms 
hernia, and the vet provided an estimate as to what this would cost. M underwent surgery on 
18 February 2022 which included some dental treatment. 
During the course of Ms surgery, it became apparent to the vet that a hernia operation 
wasnt necessary, but a mass was found which the vet thought could be a cyst or an 
abscess. This was removed. 
Mr N claimed for the cost of Ms treatment under his policy which amounted to £1,170.34. 
The claim form stated that it was for treatment of an umbilical hernia. Ms vet later confirmed 
that M had been diagnosed as having a follicular cyst and not the umbilical hernia stated on 
the claim form.
C&G reviewed Ms medical history. It noted that on 20 February 2020, before Mr N took out 
the policy, Ms check-up had identified that she had a reduceable hernia. 
C&G therefore rejected Mr Ns claim. It initially referred to the following terms from Mr Ns 
policy:
Insurance Product Information Document
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
Policy Definitions
Pre-Existing Condition Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition:
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
In its final response to Mr Ns complaint, C&G maintains that Ms clinical history confirms that 
she had shown signs and symptoms of cysts prior to the inception of the policy and that the 
cyst that was removed was present prior to policy inception. It maintains that cysts was a 
pre-existing condition that wasnt disclosed, and had it been, it wouldve imposed an 
endorsement excluding cover for all claims with respect to cysts and warts with effect from 
the 2021 policy renewal.
As he was dissatisfied with C&Gs rejection of his claim, Mr N brough a complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that he didnt think C&G had acted fairly in declining Mr 
Ns claim. He didnt find any medical history that confirmed that M had shown any signs of M 
having cysts prior to the inception of the policy.
 
In response to our investigators view, C&G referred to the references in Ms medical history 
to her having a hernia and referred to a policy term that specifically excludes claims for 
umbilical hernias. It asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore 
been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
I consider it clear from Ms medical history that she had a history of having a hernia that pre-
dated the policy. Any claim for treatment for an umbilical hernia could therefore legitimately 
be excluded by C&G both because of an express policy term excluding such treatment from 
cover, and also because it was a pre-existing condition which C&G can exclude by 
introducing a retrospective endorsement in reliance on the following policy term:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant 
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
But Ms surgery wasnt for a hernia. It was for removal of a follicular cyst and it is the cost of 
this treatment that Mr N is claiming for. 
C&G has said in its final response to Mr N, giving its reasons for the rejection of his claim 
that:
As part of our review, we take into account the full clinical history provided to us.
We have been provided with [Ms] clinical history and within the clinical history, it 
confirms that there have been signs and symptoms of Cysts prior to the inception of 
the policy.
We note that you did not disclose any pre-existing condition for the Cysts here 
although it was discussed with your vet during the consultation on 20 February 2020. 
We do appreciate that this was not the original diagnosis, however this cyst was still 
present prior to the inception of the policy.
Further, the endorsement which it says it wouldve applied had Mr N disclosed to it Ms 
clinical signs and symptoms states:Excludes cover on all claims with respect to cysts and warts with effect from 2021 
Renewal."   
The reasons behind C&Gs final response are factually incorrect. Ms medical records make 
no references at all to M having a cyst until the date of her surgery, when it was referred to 
as a possible cause of the mass that was removed. Theres no evidence in her medical 
records of M having previously shown any signs or symptoms of a cyst. 
Mr N could not be expected to disclose a condition of which there were no signs or 
symptoms when taking out his policy, and in any event, he wasnt requested to provide any 
information about Ms health when taking out his policy.
In my opinion M didnt have any pre-existing condition other than that of a reduceable hernia, 
but that isnt what Ms surgery was ultimately for. There are no grounds for C&Gs 
endorsement as M had shown no previous signs or symptoms of cysts. Nor has C&G 
provided any evidence that might suggest a connection between Ms reduceable hernia and 
a follicular cyst.
I therefore consider that C&G has failed to satisfy the burden that is upon it to prove that the 
exclusion it relies upon is applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to settle Mr Ns claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy;
2. if Mr N has already paid his vet, to reimburse to him the sum so paid with interest 
thereon at the simple rate of 8% from the date he paid the vet to the date payment is 
made to him.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give him 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman