DRN-3748437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B held various accounts with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), in various
capacities. They had joint accounts, sole credit card accounts and a business account, held
by a limited company controlled by Mr B, which Ill call F. This complaint arises from Mr Bs
attempts to give instructions on, and close, the accounts.
Given the different capacities involved here I must treat this complaint as four separate
complaints. But, as the issues are intrinsically linked, my decision on each will be materially
the same. I will also, for practical reasons, simply divide the redress between the four
complaints. This complaint involves Mr Bs sole account/s.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Mr B has provided detailed submissions, including a full timeline of events. RBS has 
had sight of Mr Bs timeline and hasnt disputed its accuracy. And I find his timeline to 
be accurate based on the evidence available to me. Im therefore satisfied the details 
of this complaint are well known to both parties and so wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a great deal of correspondence on this complaint. I can assure Mr B (and 
RBS) I have read the full file, including Mr Bs 71-page bundle and his 31 complaint 
points. I will, however, not be responding to each point raised. Instead, I will focus on 
what I consider necessary to reach a fair outcome.
As set out above, Mr and Mrs B had (or controlled) several accounts with RBS. In 
March 2019 Mr B asked RBS to make some changes to the accounts, including 
some closures. Mr B later asked for all the accounts to be closed. None of this went 
well and not all the accounts were closed until late 2021. RBS didnt deal with 
matters as it should have. For example: It didnt always act on Mr Bs instructions 
fully and accurately; It lost and/or didnt respond to some correspondence; It gave 
incorrect information, such as saying accounts had been closed when they hadnt; 
Branch visits didnt achieve what they should have. I can understand why Mr B feels 
as frustrated as he does. And I note to date a query he raised about his personal 
data in August 2019 still hasnt been addressed.
However, I must be objective and fair to both parties. Im not persuaded Mr Bs 
approach has always been helpful. The contact between the parties was 
predominantly by letter, and on the part of Mr B often complaint focused rather than 
solution focused. This has led to delays and complications. I find it likely much of 
what transpired could have been avoided through phone calls which Mr B wasnt 
open to on the basis he was told RBS wouldnt allow him to record the calls. I also 
find it likely the accounts would have closed sooner had Mr B been more 
cooperative. In July 2020, RBS apologised for not acting on his instruction and
asked for a further written instruction. Rather than provide one, Mr B pointed out hes 
already provided an instruction. In August 2020, when asked to attend a branch to 
update signature mandates, Mr B declined to do so. The accounts were eventually 
closed following Mr B attending a branch in September 2021.
RBS was the professional party here. And it did do things wrong. Compensation is 
therefore appropriate. Mr B seeks £50,000 compensation based on time spent and 
his professional hourly rate. I consider such a sum inappropriate. Ultimately there 
was little detriment for Mr B here. He wasnt, for example, prevented from accessing 
his money, or caused a financial loss. Instead, Mr B was caused some distress and 
inconvenience. And I find £100  one fourth of the £400 compensation RBS has 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs B across the four complaints - fairly and reasonably 
recognises the impact RBSs action (or lack of action) - had on him.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr B £100 compensation; and
consider and respond to Mr Bs personal data query.
RBS didnt provide any more comments or evidence for me to consider. Mr B disagreed with 
my provisional decision and set out his dissatisfaction. In summary, he considers my 
provisional decision factually incorrect, biased and insulting.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having taken on board Mr Bs comments, I havent changed my mind. I 
accept Mr B disagrees with how Ive approached this complaint and with some of the 
reasoning Ive given. But my role requires me to take account of what both parties have said 
and provided, and form my own, independent view of things. And that view remains as set 
out in my provisional decision. Im sorry to hear Mr B thinks I have insulted him. That wasnt 
my intention, and it still isnt.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr B £100 compensation; and
consider and respond to Mr Bs personal data query.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman