DRN-3408802
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly registered a marker against him 
with Cifas.
What happened
Mr K had a bank account with NatWest which was closed a few years ago. Recently, Mr K 
became aware that a marker had been lodged against him with Cifas  a fraud prevention 
service. The marker related to NatWests belief that Mr K was involved in moving fraudulent 
funds using his bank account.
Mr K has denied he was involved in this and explained that he wasnt aware of the 
movements of funds through his account. He believes he was also a victim of someone 
elses criminal activity.
At the time of the account closure, NatWest identified two large payments paid into Mr Ks 
account. The receipt of such amounts wasnt the way that this account was normally 
operated. These payments were received about two weeks apart and followed a similar 
pattern. That is as soon as they were received, they were sent to other accounts using Mr 
Ks online banking access.
NatWest received information that both of these payments were the result of fraudulent 
activity and because Mr K had received these funds and sent them to other accounts, 
NatWest closed his account and lodged a Cifas marker against him. 
Once Mr K became of the marker, he complained to NatWest about it and asked for it to be 
removed. NatWest investigated the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint but didnt change 
their position and refused to remove the marker. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr K brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who 
thought it was reasonable for NatWest to have closed Mr Ks account and lodged a marker 
against him and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr K disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint which has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has denied any knowledge of these payments into and out of his account. But he hasnt 
been able to explain how someone could have gained access to his account through his 
online banking. 
Mr K explained that at one stage, hed given his bank card to someone he knew at college 
but accepts that this doesnt give access to online banking. Thats because to gain access to 
it requires knowledge of the account and private security information known only to Mr K. 
Theres no plausible explanation that could explain how an unidentified third party could gain 
access to Mr Ks account.
I appreciate Mr K is saying he wasnt aware of the payments into his account. So, I looked at 
how the account was normally used, and Mr K was actively using his online banking to move 
funds prior, between and after the receipt of these payments. The fraudulent payments were 
significantly larger than the normal account usage and stand out, so his use of online 
banking to make other payments would have meant he was reviewing his account on a 
regular basis. There were over a dozen uses of his online banking between the receipt of the 
two fraudulent payments. So, it seems likely it was Mr K who was using his own account 
when these payments were received and was responsible for sending them to other 
accounts. 
I dont know for sure if he knew they were fraudulent, but the receipt of such large amounts 
was highly unusual and the actions of moving them to different accounts straight after their 
receipt shows a level of knowledge about the funds and their likely source. 
In order to lodge a marker with Cifas, NatWest are required to meet certain standards. 
The relevant ones here are: 
 That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted. 
 That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police (but theres no obligation to 
make that report). 
NatWest received confirmation that both payments were the result of fraud, so Im satisfied 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed.
NatWests information identified the source of the fraud. Mr Ks actions when he received 
and moved the funds points to his knowledge about the payments. Ive considered if it was 
plausible that Mr K was unaware of the situation. If hed been sent these funds and had no 
prior knowledge of them, his actions would likely have been different, for example notifying 
his bank about the payments. That didnt happen here because the fraudulent funds were 
sent to other accounts using Mr Ks online banking as soon as they arrived in his account 
and that indicates he was aware of them at the time. 
NatWest had clear evidence of the fraudulent funds and Mr Ks actions when he sent them 
was enough for NatWest to meet the second criteria, so I think it was reasonable for 
NatWest to lodge a marker with Cifas. 
Theres no evidence or plausible explanation to explain how it could have been anyone else 
but Mr K who used his online banking to move the fraudulent funds. Im satisfied that 
NatWest met the appropriate criteria for lodging a marker with Cifas. 
Mr K also complained about the closure of his account by NatWest. He believed it was 
wrong. The account offered by NatWest comes with terms and conditions that Mr K agreed 
to when he opened it and they govern how its run, including when it can be closed. Both 
parties can choose to end their relationship with each other and in this case, NatWest no 
longer wished to offer banking services to Mr K.
NatWest based this decision on the actions related to the operation of the account and the lodgement of the Cifas marker. They issued a 14-day notice to close the account to Mr K, 
although the terms would have allowed for an immediate closure based on the evidence 
NatWest held. I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to close the account and I 
wont be asking them to change this. 
In summary, I think it likely that Mr K had knowledge of the incoming payments and was 
involved in the distribution of them from his account using his online banking. I think NatWest 
met the Cifas standards for lodging a marker against him and their decision to close the 
account was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman