DRN-3946485
The complaint
Mr B has complained TSB Bank plc added a fraud-related marker to the industry fraud 
database, CIFAS. He believes he should be paid effective compensation.
What happened
Mr B applied for current and savings accounts with TSB in June 2022. They rejected his 
application as they noted another bank had confirmed Mr Bs details were used to open an 
account fraudulently. 
Mr B was able to provide photographic evidence that his application had been genuine. TSB 
removed the fraud-related marker.
Mr B had obtained details of his records and was convinced that TSB had lodged other 
markers against his record. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service as he didnt 
believe TSB were telling him the truth of what was going on.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask TSB to pay him any compensations as the 
CIFAS marker had been removed.
Mr B remained convinced hed been treated unfairly by TSB and provided evidence of the 
records hed obtained. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I see no reason to doubt the evidence TSB has given us that they initially placed a CIFAS 
marker but were happy to remove this once they were satisfied Mr B had made genuine 
applications with them.
These applications  whilst unsuccessful  were noted on Mr Bs credit record. But I dont 
believe theres anything wrong with this as he did make these applications, so this records 
factual events.
The CIFAS marker was removed from Mr Bs record in 2022. Ive seen correspondence 
dated 7 December 2022 from TSB confirming this was the case.
I accept Mr B provided us his records dated October 2022 which showed them referencing 
this marker. However he has not provided us any evidence following the markers removal 
that these still remain on his record. I am satisfied these will also have been updated and 
now reflect no markers existing.
I considered whether TSB should pay compensation to Mr B. But from what I have been able 
to see, they made a decision based on a pre-existing marker. So I dont believe they were at 
fault from taking the action they did. I appreciate Mr B has been extremely frustrated by what 
he felt was their inability to tell him what was going on but overall I can see they took steps 
to remove the marker as soon as they were able to assess the photographic ID Mr B 
provided to them. 
I wont be asking TSB to do anything further or make any payment to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against TSB Bank 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman