DRN-3031116
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in November 
2000. The PPI was sold alongside a secured loan. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc 
mis-sold that PPI policy. 
I know that when PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs G, Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Although Mr and Mrs G had a joint loan, the PPI was set up to cover Mr G only  not Mrs G. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated 
all of that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Halifaxs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs G paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
The parties agree that cover was sold to Mr and Mrs G during a face to face meeting. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs G remember about it. And Ive also looked at the 
documentary and electronic evidence thats available from the relevant time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs G that the PPI 
was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Ive seen a sample 
application form and I can see that there were two equally prominent boxes to mark in 
respect of PPI  one to say they wanted to cover and another if they did not. Also, I can see 
from the loan agreement that there was another question on the loan agreement saying, do 
you want [PPI] cover?. The yes box has been marked, and I think it would have been open 
to Mr and Mrs G to tick no if they didnt want a policy. This loan agreement was 
independently witnessed and so I think Mr and Mrs G would have taken some time to 
consider it. 
Overall and taking account of all the evidence before me, Im satisfied the optional nature of 
the cover was most likely made clear to Mr and Mrs G. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check that the cover was right 
for them. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what we know about Mr and Mrs Gs 
personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the policy, Mr and Mrs Gs loan repayments 
would have been covered for up to five years (or the term of the loan) if Mr G was off sick. 
And if he lost his job, their repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for 
each claim. 
Mr and Mrs G told us that Mr G was entitled to more than 12 months full pay from his 
employer. That would be an extraordinarily generous sick pay package, especially as Mr G 
had been in that role for less than three years. But in any event, the PPI would have lasted 
for up to five years. So Im satisfied it would have covered them for longer than Mr Gs sick 
pay. Given Mr Gs length of service, it seems to me most likely that the cover would have 
also lasted longer than his redundancy entitlement. 
I appreciate Mr G would have been entitled to a death in service payment from his employer. 
But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death  not if he was off 
sick or if he lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs G told us that Mr G had broken a bone in 1962, which is 38 years before the 
cover was sold. The evidence before me doesnt suggest that this medical issue caused Mr 
G to have any ongoing difficulties. So I cant reasonably say an injury incurred 38 years 
before the sale of the cover rendered the policy unsuitable. I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Gs employment or occupation that would have 
made it more difficult for him to make a claim. And the evidence provided by Halifax 
indicates the cover was affordable. Overall, Im satisfied the policy was most likely suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Gs needs. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give them enough information so Mr and Mrs G could decide 
whether the cover was a good fit for them. I accept its possible that the information Halifax 
gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that 
they chose to take it out, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs G as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what they 
reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given. It also 
looks like it was affordable. I can see how it could have been useful for them at what would 
have no doubt been a difficult time if Mr G was out of work. Thats especially because their 
loan was secured on their home, which would have been at risk if they fell behind with their 
repayments. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs G would have declined the cover even 
if  Halifax had given them more or better information about it. 
Those representing Mr and Mrs G made a number of submissions about the policys 
limitations in respect of back and mental health problems. I accept that in order to make a 
claim for either of those conditions, Mr G would have had to provide additional medical 
evidence. But I dont think theyd have reasonably thought a claim could be made without 
supporting that claim with medical evidence. I dont think this requirements made the policy 
unsuitable either. I cant say theyd have refused cover if Halifax had told them more about 
this.
The representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share they 
paid in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipand that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt 
have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs G with the policy Ive concluded above would still have taken out if Halifax had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Halifax has already paid Mr and Mrs G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Bank of Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
it must do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman