DRN-3466138
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr H acquired a used car via a three-year hire purchase agreement with 
AutoMoney. The credit agreement was arranged by a broker. At the time the car was around 
nine years old and had a mileage of 76,382. The car came with a six-month warranty.
Around one week after taking the car Mr H returned it to the supplying dealership as he 
reported he that at times he was having difficulty changing gears, that the suspension was 
squeaky, that there were issues with the radio functioning and the air conditioning was 
temperamental. The dealership investigated and said it couldnt find any issues with the 
radio, air conditioning or gearbox/clutch and that although there was some corrosion to the 
rear springs this wasnt excessive and wouldnt be an MOT fail. The car was returned to Mr 
H.
Mr H contacted the supplying dealership again two days later and complained the car was 
making a grinding noise and there were problems with its electrics. He said the lights werent 
working correctly, the electric windows were opening randomly, and the radio was turning on 
and off. He asked to reject the car, but the supplying dealership said the issues would be 
covered by the warranty. The car was inspected again by the dealership, but no faults were 
found. The supplying dealer said Mr H wasnt able to reject the car in these circumstances. 
Mr H says the supplying dealership then became unhelpful but the dealership disputes that. 
It says that when it first inspected the car, although it didnt find the faults complained of by 
Mr H, it did find a fault with the exhaust flexi pipe which it fixed at no cost to him. It also says 
that a short time later it replaced the coil pack and spark plugs when the car was misfiring. 
This repair was again at no cost to Mr H.
Mr H says he raised issues with the brakes but was told these wouldnt be covered by the 
warranty as this was a matter of wear and tear. Mr H complained to the broker in September 
about what had been said. He later arranged to have this work done to the car himself.
It is agreed that Mr H reported issues about the cars electrics although the supplying dealer 
says this was in August 2021 and Mr H says this was earlier. The car was inspected for a 
third time, and corrosion of the circuit board was found. Mr H was told that a new fuse box 
needed to be sourced and fitted. 
The supplying dealership says Mr H wasnt co-operative with supplying the required serial 
numbers so that the part could be ordered. Mr H says he wasnt able to provide this 
information as there was no sticker on the existing fuse box providing the required numbers. 
He says he was asked by the broker to take the car to another garage which was some 
distance away. Mr H says he was also told that it would take a few weeks to source the fuse 
box as it wasnt in stock and that there was no guarantee that a replacement part would be 
located.
The broker responded to Mr Hs complaint about the brakes and said that although it couldnt 
support the repairs to the brakes, he had the option of taking the car back to the supplying 
dealer who would check them. If an issue was found, then the dealer would liaise with the 
warranty company to try and get the issue resolved.
Mr H said that by this time he had lost faith with the car and complained to AutoMoney about 
the condition of the car. AutoMoney didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the broker had 
informed Mr H that it did not have the fuse box in stock and had offered to look at the brakes, 
but Mr H had already repaired these. The broker had requested Mr H take the car to another 
garage for inspection, but he hadnt done so. AutoMoney said as the brakes had been 
repaired it couldnt assist further wit that matter but the offer of inspection/repair by the 
dealer was still open for the other matter and it was closing his complaint.
Mr H was unhappy at the response from AutoMoney and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that looking at the evidence that had been supplied she was satisfied 
that there was a fault with the car. She said he had experienced intermittent electrical faults 
with the car a short time after hed acquired it. And it later became apparent that the fuse box 
needed to be replaced. Our investigator said it was more likely than not that the earlier 
issues complained of by Mr H regarding the cars electrics were linked to this fault. 
Mr H relied heavily on the car and our investigator said it wasnt fair to expect Mr H to wait 
indefinitely for repairs to be arranged. She said it would be fair for Mr H to now reject the car 
and for the agreement to be unwound.
Our investigator said that Mr H should be reimbursed any deposit/part exchange amount 
hed made for the car together with all the monthly payments hed paid under the agreement 
as his use of the car had been curtailed. She also said that AutoMoney should also pay Mr H 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal with the faulty car.
However, our investigator said that she wouldnt ask AutoMoney to reimburse the cost of the 
replacement brakes as repairs of that nature wouldnt be unexpected in a car of this age and 
mileage as these were serviceable parts. 
Mr H agreed with our investigators view but AutoMoney disagreed. It said the outcome was 
unfair. The electrical issues had been raised around two months after Mr H had acquired the 
car and it was his actions which had delayed the repair as he had been uncooperative. Mr H 
had also agreed to all the repairs. 
AutoMoney said in regard to the issue with the cars brakes, that this hadnt been raised until 
September 2021 and although these were wear and tear items the supplying dealer had 
offered to inspect them, but Mr H had already had this work undertaken. It said that in these 
circumstances the repair couldnt be supported because it was unclear who had done the 
work and the claims procedure under the warranty hadnt been followed. 
The supplying dealer said the car had been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply.
AutoMoney also said that the current condition and mileage of the car was unknown, and it 
would be fair for Mr H to have deducted from any reimbursement reasonable refurbishment 
costs plus a charge for usage.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr H is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. AutoMoney is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was around nine years old and had a mileage of 76,382. So, some issues of 
maintenance and repair would be expected over a reasonable period of time. Ive seen that 
there were issues with the brakes that Mr H had repaired himself in September 2021. Brakes 
are serviceable items and I think that, taking into account the age and mileage of the car, 
that a reasonable person would expect issues with worn brake pads etc after a period of 
time. Although Im unclear as to the exact amount of use Mr H had of the car before the 
brakes required repair, I think its fair to say this fault arose from wear and tear. In those 
circumstances Im not asking AutoMoney to reimburse the cost of these repairs.
The supplying dealership says that the quality of the car at the point of was supply was 
satisfactory, but I disagree. Ive seen that the car required repairs to its exhaust flexi pipe, 
and to its coil pack and spark plugs after only a short time. These repairs were undertaken at 
no cost to Mr H and with his agreement, so it appears there were faults either present or 
developing at the point of supply although these were fixed. 
However, there were also ongoing issues with the cars electrics which were found to be due 
to corrosion of the circuit board. And I think its reasonable to think that this corrosion would 
have been present at the point the car was supplied to Mr H since hed only had the car for 
around eight weeks at that point. Corrosion is something that develops over time and as it 
deteriorates its likely it would cause other issues with the cars electrical system which is 
what happened with this car. Mr H had complained about problems with various electrics in 
the car shortly after the inception of the agreement. It appears that the electric issues were 
intermittent at the start as the supplying dealership wasnt able to replicate them when it first 
looked at the car but the problems with the cars electrics appear to have got progressively 
worse. 
So, Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that the corroded circuit board was present or 
developing at the point of supply of the car to Mr H. As with the other repairs Mr H had 
agreed for this one to take place and a replacement fuse box to be fitted. But I havent seen 
this repair was carried out. There was an issue about sourcing the part which the supplying 
dealership says was due to delays caused by Mr H not cooperating in providing serial 
numbers for the parts. However, Mr H wasnt able to provide this information since there was 
no sticker on the existing fuse box as expected. Mr H had to take the car in for it to be inspected as to the fuse box that was in place and when this was ascertained the garage 
didnt have this model in stock. 
Mr H says he was told that it would take several weeks to get this part and that it may in fact 
not be possible to source it. I havent seen that what Mr H has said about the availability of 
the part has been disagreed with by AutoMoney.  And under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
there is an obligation for repairs to be undertaken in a reasonable period time. While I 
appreciate what the supplying dealership has said about the cause of the delay in repairing 
the car, Ive also seen Mr Hs comments, and I think its clear there was a breakdown in 
communications between Mr H and the dealer. But I dont think Mr H was given any 
timetable for the repairs even when the model of fuse box was ascertained. I havent seen 
any evidence that a fuse box was ordered and obtained by the garage ready for the repair to 
be undertaken.
Ive seen that the car was very important to Mr H and that he relied on it, so he cant 
reasonably be expected to wait without any details as to how long repairs will take. I think 
that on being told the part may not be obtainable that Mr H was entitled to be concerned 
about the length of time these repairs would take. And I also think its fair to say the 
supplying dealership had an opportunity to repair the car but didnt do so.
I therefore think on the evidence that has been presented that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and that due to the repairs not being carried out in a reasonable 
period of time that Mr H is now entitled to reject the car. The agreement should be ended 
with nothing further to pay.
AutoMoney says that Mr H should be responsible for the condition of the car as it is now and 
also that he should pay for any usage he has made from it.
In regard to the cars condition, Ive seen that Mr H stopped using it around September 2021 
as he was concerned about its safety given the issue with the electrics which appeared to be 
deteriorating and affecting the cars lights etc. The car has been SORN now for many 
months and has a flat battery, so it isnt being used and has stood for many months while 
this matter is resolved. However, I think Mr Hs decision not to use it was reasonable in the 
circumstances, and Ive seen he arranged another car for him to drive instead. I therefore 
dont think I can fairly say that Mr H should be liable for the condition the car is it is now even 
though I accept not using a car will inevitably lead to deterioration of various parts. Ive also 
seen from photos provided by Mr H that the interior of the car appears to have a mould issue 
due to damp. But I think it is understandable why Mr H would be concerned about continuing 
to use it so, I am not going to hold Mr H responsible for the cars current state.  He had 
sought to return the car since shortly after he acquired it due to its various faults.
AutoMoney has raised that it would be fair for Mr H to cover the cost of using the car over 
the period it has been in his possession. I dont know how many miles Mr H has driven in the 
car due to it now having a flat battery so the mileage reading cant be obtained. The 
supplying dealer doesnt appear to have recorded the mileage when it inspected the car 
either. As Mr H complained about issues with the car from the first week of acquiring it and 
ceased driving it around September, which would be around three months from the point of 
supply, I think it would be fair for all the monthly payments made by him under the 
agreement to be reimbursed. Mr H wasnt able to use the car as he wished, and he had to 
go to the expense of replacing it. Some of the mileage would also have been used taking the 
car to and from the dealership for investigation and repairs. 
Mr H has also suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with the faulty car, there were 
multiple visits to the dealership raising faults and waiting for inspections to be undertaken. I 
agree with our investigator that £250 compensation for the impact this has had on him is fair and reasonable.
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking AutoMoney to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse any deposit/ part exchange amount paid under the agreement by Mr H 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr H all of the monthly payments made by him under the agreement 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Hs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im asking AutoMoney 
Limited to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse any deposit/ part exchange amount paid under the agreement by Mr H 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr H all of the monthly payments made by him under the agreement 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing 
with the faulty car.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman