DRN-1319872
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 In 2003 Mr and Mrs M took out a joint secured personal loan with Halifax during a meeting 
in one of its branches. They also took out monthly PPI to protect the loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. They mainly say that they dont recall any conversation about taking out PPI or 
agreeing to any policy and that it must have been applied without their knowledge or 
consent.
Mr and Mrs M have asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr M. But as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Ms joint names Ive 
looked at both their circumstances when the loan was taken out.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it 
for Mr M. I say this because I find that the way information about the PPI was set out in the 
loan agreement Mr and Mrs M signed presented the policy clearly as a matter of choice. It 
says on the form: Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Cover? I think its likely that the 
Yes box was pre-printed with an X reflecting what Mr M had put on the form they wouldve 
filled in to apply for this loan. If Mr and Mrs M hadnt wanted PPI they couldve marked the 
No box on their loan agreement. 
PPI was clearly shown on Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement  including the amount of the 
monthly premium. Mr and Mrs M have both signed this agreement to indicate they agree 
with what it says on the form. Based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Halifax 
failed to make Mr and Mrs M aware that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted 
PPI for Mr M  or that they didnt agree to sign up for optional PPI with their loan. This all 
happened a long time ago, so its easy to understand why Mr and Mrs M mightve forgotten 
some of these details now.
Halifax says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs M and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms situation at the time. PPI couldve covered the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M 
was unemployed  and paid out for up to 60 months per claim if hed been unable to work as 
a result of accident or sickness. Repeat claims were possible.
Ive taken into account that Mr M couldve depended on getting 6 months full sick pay. 
But the policy paid out on top of sick pay from work - which couldve been useful if 
Mr and Mrs M mightve faced some extra costs as a result of Mr M being off work ill or 
disabled. And it gave Mr and Mrs M significantly better cover than if theyd just been relying 
on Mr Ms work benefits.
Although Mr M told us he was eligible for death in service benefit from his employer, PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. And I've taken into 
account that he was also entitled to redundancy benefits through his work. But this wouldnt 
have helped Mr M if he was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs M some additional 
financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And as the loan was taken out when Mr and Mrs M were both working, I think its likely that 
losing Mr Ms salary wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So, I think the 
policy couldve been useful to them.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
The loan agreement sets out what the policy would cost them each month as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment and the total monthly payment theyd have to make. So 
I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been aware how much theyd be paying for the insurance. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover and the policy seems to have been affordable. Overall I think it unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided as 
the policy offered them worthwhile benefits in their particular situation.
This means it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything Halifax did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
 My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
  
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman