DRN-3669946
The complaint
Mr P complains that Plutusgroup Ltd, now trading as Gate Capital Group Ltd (Gate), gave 
him unsuitable advice to switch his two existing personal pensions to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest his funds through Organic, a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM). For ease of reading Ill refer to Gate throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr P approached the adviser to review two personal pensions he held. The fact find 
recorded that Mr P was 58, self-employed and was living with his partner. He held £3,500 in 
cash, £12,500 in a business account, £14,000 in a stock and shares ISA and £24,000 in 
investment bonds. His partner wasnt working and had no income, initially as her business 
had closed down and then due to poor health. She had savings of £5,000 (in the suitability 
report this was changed to £500). Mr P had a net monthly income of £1,000 and the couple 
had joint outgoings of £1,300. Mr P was paying for the outgoings exceeding his income from 
savings whilst his partner wasnt working. They were hoping she would continue to work if 
her health improved.
He was looking to release the maximum possible tax-free cash (TFC) to pay for a new car 
and take his partner on a holiday of a lifetime. He also was interested in providing the most 
death benefits for his partner if he predeceased her. It was recorded that when he retired he 
wanted to take benefits flexibly when he required them.
His two pensions had a combined value of around £53,000. Both plans had annual charges 
of 1%. One of his plans included a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR).
He was looking to retire at 66 with a joint required income of £15,000 per year. His attitude to 
risk was recorded as balanced. The adviser recommended the transfer to the SIPP to meet 
Mr Ps objectives of:
Obtaining the maximum level of tax-free cash as a lump sum.
Providing his partner with flexibility in respect of any death benefits should he die.
Leaving the remaining funds invested and under his control while not committing
him to an annuity purchase.
In September 2016, Mr P was recommended to transfer both plans to a SIPP and invest 
through a DFM. He took a tax-free cash lump sum and left the remainder of his funds 
invested.
Mr P said he shouldnt have been advised to transfer and that he is financially
disadvantaged as a result and the investments were too high risk.
Gate said they cant be held responsible for advice given by Mr Ps adviser as at the time,
between March and 12 September 2016, he didnt hold authority to act for Gate. Another
ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on a similar case where advice happened around
the same time and found Gate could be held responsible for advice given after mid-August
2016 and likely after May 2016. Gate was informed that we would proceed with merits
assessments on cases where advice was given during these times.
Our investigator thought Gate was responsible for the advice. She then considered the 
merits of Mr Ps complaint and thought it should be upheld. She didnt think Mr P had a 
strong need for tax-free cash from his pension and shouldnt have given up his existing 
policies which included valuable guarantees.
Gate disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I previously issued a provisional decision explaining that I thought I could consider the 
complaint and that I was also intending to uphold the complaint. However, I was looking to 
award slightly different compensation taking into account that I didnt think it was fair to hold 
Gate responsible for all investment losses Mr P suffered. And I didnt think the value of Mr 
Ps GAR which he lost by transferring had been fully taken into account by the previously 
recommended redress.
Mr P agreed with my provisional decision. Gate did not respond.
As I wasnt provided with any further comments or information by either party, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings in my provisional decision which are set out again below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the advice to transfer Mr Ps pensions suitable?
 
Neither of Mr Ps pensions allowed him to take a lump sum and keep the rest of his funds 
invested until retirement. He would have had to draw an income straight away which is not 
something Mr P wanted or needed. He was still working and was planning to do so for 
another eight years. He would lose the opportunity for accruing returns on his pension funds 
in a tax-efficient environment if he took his benefits from his existing plans straight away 
which was not advisable in my view. 
So I accept transferring his plans to a drawdown plan instead looked like a reasonable 
alternative. Whilst Gate should of course consider what Mr P would like to do, they needed 
to act in Mr Ps best interest and I cant see that Mr Ps objectives were properly explored, 
tested and that alternatives were discussed in a meaningful way. 
I dont doubt Mr P was interested in releasing TFC from his pensions. However, I would have 
expected Gate to discuss with Mr P how much he realistically needed and if he could fund 
what he needed in other ways. Mr P was using his savings to supplement his income, so I 
dont think he would have used his cash savings or would have wanted to take up a loan. 
The documents Ive seen also imply that his investment bonds possibly were tied up and 
couldnt have been easily cashed in. However, Mr P did have a stocks and shares ISA of 
£14,000. Mr P might have thought he didnt want to miss out on tax-free growth in his ISA, 
but this wasnt much different to his pension. So I think using his ISA was an alternative that 
should been have been explored. Whilst the information from the non-GAR plan didnt 
specifically mention TFC, I also dont see any particular reason why this wouldnt have been 
offered. So he possibly could have transferred only this pension to a drawdown plan if he 
really wanted to. Its recorded he wanted maximum tax-free cash. However, buying a car 
and going on holiday could be achieved with a varying amount of money. Based on the 
evidence provided Im not persuaded Mr P had an urgent need for as much as £14,000 and 
even if he wanted to spend some money, other avenues could have been explored. Other than Mr P wanting to access some cash, I cant see any good reason why Mr P 
needed to transfer. It was recorded he wanted to access his pension flexibly from 66, 
however this was still eight years away and it wasnt established why Mr P needed flexible 
income when he retired. If he died before retirement, he could leave his pensions to his 
partner as a lump sum and she could use them flexibly. And if at the point he eventually did 
retire Mr P thought he needed more flexible benefits he could still decide to transfer then.
One of the key issues here is that Mr P had a GAR on one of his plans. In the fact find the 
adviser noted that the GAR was lower than current annuity rates. However, this is 
contradicted in the suitability report which notes that [with my emphasis]:
The Pre 97 Guaranteed Annuity Rate available from your plan is 5%, and is subject to
conditions. The basis of the guaranteed annuity rate is 50% Joint Life, 3% escalation, 5-year
guarantee period and paid monthly in advance. This cannot be altered.
The current rate available on the open market for this annuity basis is 2.79%.
The Post 97 Guaranteed Annuity Rate available from your plans is 3.5%, and is subject to
conditions. The basis of the guaranteed annuity rate is 50% Joint Life, 5% escalation, 5-year
guarantee period and paid monthly in advance. This cannot be altered.
The current rate available on the open market for this annuity basis is 1.94%. 
Given that the suitability report refers to actual figures, Ive put more weight on this. Its clear 
the GARs could provide a valuable guarantee should Mr P have decided to take an annuity 
in retirement. 
The suitability report said Mr P didnt want an annuity. However, again this might have 
changed nearer to retirement. I accept its possible he never would have chosen an annuity, 
but I dont think there was a persuasive need to give up the GAR in 2016. Once he 
transferred, this guarantee was lost.
Gate said that Mr P and his partner had sufficient retirement income which was in the main 
based on their state pensions and so meeting the TFC objective was possible. However, this 
still doesnt take away from the fact that Mr P was giving up a guarantee he likely didnt have 
to. And I note that Gate didnt have any details from Mr Ps partner so they just made an 
assumption about whether she would receive a full state pension and also it wasnt clear 
when she would receive this. Also, given her poor health at the time, I think Gate should 
have considered that if she predeceased Mr P he would highly depend on his own personal 
pension provisions. 
Im also concerned about the fact Gate made no comparison of charges and brushed this 
aside by saying the plans were so different it didnt matter. Yes, the plans were different. But 
I still consider the costs of an arrangement and setting out the differences in charges crucial 
to make an informed decision. And I see no reason why a comparison wasnt possible.
It's clear that charges in the SIPP and DFM would have been higher than the 1% charged in 
his existing plans. A SIPP illustration on a similar case shows that the reduction in yield 
taking into account the SIPP charges, initial adviser charge of 3% and DFM fees would be 
1.1%. In response to Gates due diligence queries Organic did say that We will endeavour to 
keep TERs [total expense ratios] as low as possible; realistically below 0.8%, which includes 
Organics management charges but could be as high as 1.00%. So I think there was a 
realistic possibility Organics charges alone could be as high as 1%, pushing this reduction in 
yield higher. This still only would have been slightly higher than Mr Ps existing plans. 
However, in addition Gate was also going to charge an ongoing adviser fee of 1% which would have more than doubled the effect of charges. This would have a considerable effect 
on Mr Ps returns and I cant see this was explained or considered.
The suitability report makes comparisons which suggest the new plan would provide a 
higher income until age 100 than income that could be provided by his existing plans. Gate 
have not provided enough information to evidence how this was calculated. But they havent 
compared like for like as far as I can see. Illustrations Ive seen from existing plans did use 
returns of 5% which was the middle projection rate provided by the regulator, made 
allowances for charges and factored in 2.5% inflation. And then applied annuity rates (which 
dont seem to be the GAR). The drawdown figures assumed a net return of 5.14% which 
considering charges of around 2% was working on returns of over 7%. I dont know whether 
figures were adjusted for inflation. So I think this was misleading.
I think the impression was given that a drawdown plan would give a better pension. 
However, I dont see any reason why Mr Ps new plan would have realistically outperformed 
his existing plans including the higher charges. He was invested in line with his risk profile 
and costs were lower, so I dont think he would have been disadvantaged to stay in his 
plans. And as I said above he could have made a choice to transfer when he decided to 
retire and had a better idea of what he needed without prematurely giving up a GAR that 
might have been valuable to him in future. His situation was uncertain given his partner 
wasnt working and they didnt know how her health would develop. So what he wanted or 
needed from a pension could have changed.
Overall, I think the advice to transfer wasnt suitable. I think the disadvantages of a transfer 
outweighed the perceived advantages. I think with suitable advice Mr P more likely than not 
would have chosen not to transfer his plans. I think he would have kept his existing plans.
The investigator held Gate responsible for all losses Mr P experienced. However, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Its clear that the losses here 
were largely caused by how the investments performed and that they were too high risk.
As the adviser, Gate did have responsibilities to do due diligence on any DFM they 
recommended. We know that the Gate advisers due diligence into Organic had been based 
on specific questions they put to them between May and August 2016  rather than simply 
accepting Organics marketing material without question. The adviser went on to check out 
the pedigree of those running the business, and its external compliance consultants  
recording its overall conclusions in a summary document which it has provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
In August 2016 Organic provided assurances to Gate that the model portfolios wouldnt be
invested in non-standard assets and that they would not be managing any funds directly. 
Based on what Ive seen I think the extent of Gates due diligence enquiries here was
reasonable and I dont consider they acted negligently in this respect. Im satisfied the due
diligence Gate had carried out in mid-2016 would have provided reasonable assurance that
the portfolio would be managed appropriately. And looking at the advertised asset allocation 
at the time, the portfolio recommended matched Mr Ps risk profile in my view.
Organic diverged from what they had told Gate and invested into higher risk investments, 
manged their own funds and charged higher fees. Gate started having concerns about 
Organic after doing a due diligence review and wrote to their customers in 2018 and advised 
them to change their investments. At this point, funds were still liquid and from what Ive 
seen the majority of losses and liquidity issued happened from October 2018 onwards.
Gate say they also wrote to former clients including Mr P informing him about the concerns 
over Organic. Gate say Mr P changed advisers on 4 May 2017. I have no reason to doubt their statement as the original adviser took a number of clients to his new firm around this 
time. I invited Mr P and his representatives to provide evidence to the contrary if they 
wished, however nothing was provided.
The change of agency happened before Mr P received an annual review from Gate. From 
this point on it was the new advisers responsibility to ensure Mr Ps investments were still 
right for him. And I think further losses could likely have been avoided if the new adviser had 
monitored the investments like Gate did and changed them when concerns became evident.
So I dont feel its fair to hold Gate responsible for investment losses Mr P incurred after the 
new adviser took over in the circumstances of this case. The redress below reflects this. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr P fairly Gate should:
1) Ask the original provider to calculate the notional value of Mr Ps former policy 
without a GAR on 4 May 2017, as if it had never been transferred. 
2) Do the same for the GAR policy. The value needs to separately show pre and post 
April 97 benefits.
3) Only using the notional value of the GAR policy itself will not take into account the 
value of the guarantee that was lost by transferring. As I said above, Mr P might have 
never taken the GAR in which case he technically wouldnt have lost the value of it. 
However, its difficult to say now what Mr P would have done when he retired if he 
had the choice as it would depend on his circumstances and available annuities on 
the market. So overall, I consider its fair and reasonable to allow for the value of the 
GAR.
To do this, it needs to be calculated what GAR he could have received in his existing 
policy on 4 May 2017 (Mr P was 59 at that point) and what he could have got at the 
same time on the open market. This doesnt mean Im assuming he would have 
taken an annuity from his plan in May 2017 (in fact he couldnt have taken it as the 
GAR was only available from age 60) but simply helps to value the guarantee he lost. 
4) For ease, Gate should be using the available annuity rates for Mr P at age 60 which 
were 4% for pre April 97 benefits and 2.8% for post April 97 benefits in his existing 
plan. The basis of this GAR was 50% Joint Life, 3% escalation, 5-year guarantee 
period and paid monthly in advance as this was the only option offered by his plan. It 
should be assumed Mr P would have chosen to take 25% of his pension as TFC.
Based on Moneyfacts data available to this service the closest comparable rate I can 
refer to for early May 2017 is on the following basis: 66% Joint life, RPI linked without 
guarantee, paid monthly in advance. The average rate at the time on this basis was 
1.85% assuming Mr Ps partner was the same age as him. I appreciate its not a 
perfect comparison, however given its an average rate overall I believe its close 
enough. 
I said in my provisional decision that if the parties could provide more accurate 
comparisons, they should let me know in response to this decision. However, neither 
party commented on this, so Im satisfied what I set out above is reasonable and 
should be used.5) Increase the pre-April notional value of the GAR policy by the ratio of 75% x (4% 
divided by 1.85%) and increase the post April 97 notional value of the GAR policy by 
the ratio of 75% x (2.8% divided by 1.85%).
6) Add the values calculated under 1) and 5) which is the total value of Mr Ps former 
policies.
7) Compare this total value with Mr Ps SIPP value on 4 May 2017.
8) The loss to Mr Ps pension funds on 4 May 2017 is the difference between this SIPP 
value and the total value of Mr Ps policies as calculated under 6). If the SIPP value 
is higher, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
9) A notional value is the fairest comparator here, but if one or both of the former 
providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Gate will need to determine a fair 
value for Mr P's previous plan(s) instead, using this benchmark: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index)
Mr P wanted growth with some risk to his capital so I think this benchmark is fair. The 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
It does not mean that Mr P would have invested in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable benchmark that likely reflects the 
sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments in his existing plans.
Any loss amount as calculated under 8) should be brought up to date from 4 May 
2017 to the day of my final decision by applying the same benchmark as mentioned 
above. Again this is to reflect the kind of returns Mr P likely could have expected 
given his attitude to risk if he had reasonably invested the loss amount.
Any additional sum or regular contributions that Mr P paid into the SIPP should be 
added to notional value calculations at the point it was actually paid in. Any 
withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of 
regular payments and the providers arent able to factor this into the notional values, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gate totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end.
If there is a loss, Gate should pay compensation into Mr P's pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Gates payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Gate shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the overall gross loss adequately 
reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 28 days of the 
date Gate receives notification of Mr Ps acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes 
Gate to pay Mr P.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gate consider that they are 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Gate 
should tell Mr P how much theyve taken off. Gate should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay Mr P any compensation due 
following calculations as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman