DRN-1169399
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (trading as More Th>n) unfairly 
declined her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2017, Mrs B bought a pet insurance policy on More Th>ns website. It was taken 
out to cover her pet cat, whom Ill refer to as S, who was 18 years old at the time. 
In the weeks following the policys renewal in October 2018, sadly Mrs B had to have S put 
to sleep. Mrs B made a claim under her pet insurance policy, but More Th>n declined to 
cover costs associated with euthanasia and cremation. Mrs B complained as she believed 
the policy had been mis-sold. More Th>n didn't uphold her complaint, explaining Mrs B 
hadn't taken out the optional Farewell Cover  which offered cover for euthanasia and 
cremation  when she bought the policy online. 
Mrs B referred the matter to our service. She explained that at the time she took out the 
policy, shed seen it included death of an insured pet and so assumed she was covered for 
Ss death. She since discovered she needed to take out Farewell Cover which she felt was 
obscurely named. Mrs B told us she had worked in the insurance industry for 17 years and 
like her friends, family and the vet, she believed the terms were misleading and the terms 
and conditions weren't clear or fair. Mrs B also complained about the way her complaint was 
dealt with by More Th>n. She explained shed asked for a final response letter after More 
Th>n rejected her complaint over the phone but was told she needed to wait for a separate 
complaints team to review it again before a letter was sent.
Our investigator didn't think More Th>n had acted unfairly in declining Mrs Bs claim. He 
explained Mrs B hadn't added Farewell Cover to the policy when she bought it online. He 
also felt the information Mrs B was given about it at the time of taking out the policy was 
sufficiently clear. With regards to its handling of her complaint, the investigator was satisfied 
More Th>n had investigated and issued its final response on the matter within the eight-
week period it was allowed under the regulators rules. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. In summary, she explained she would have taken out Farewell Cover if it 
had been made clear to her that death of a pet didn't include cover for the death of a pet. 
She also explained she wouldn't have spent the amount of money she did to pay for the 
cremation and euthanasia if shed known she wasn't covered.  
So, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I know itll come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B, but Im not upholding it. Ive explained why below.The starting point is the terms of the contract between Mrs B and More Th>n. Mrs B took out 
the basic level of cover and no additional options were selected. Under this level of cover, 
the policy provides cover for death in two situations only, from illness if the pet is under 9 
years old or from an accident. There is no cover for costs related to euthanasia, cremation or 
burial unless Farewell Cover is selected. As Mrs B didn't take out this additional cover at the 
time of purchasing the policy, or when it renewed a year later, unfortunately the euthanasia 
and cremation costs she incurred for S are not covered under the policy.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about the clarity of the information she was given when 
she took out the policy. As she bought it online, there was no staff involvement during the 
sale. So More Th>n needed to provide Mrs B with enough information for her to make an 
informed choice. 
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the policy which would have been 
presented to Mrs B at the time of the online application. Both sections on the death of a pet 
have their own headings and set out what is and isn't covered.
Ive also seen screenshots from More Th>ns online application journey which shows Mrs B 
was given the option to add Farewell Cover to the policy. The information presented on the 
screen explains it covers putting to sleep, and cremation or burial costs up to £150. I dont 
find this information to be misleading or unclear. And I think the fact that this was offered as 
an extra should have prompted Mrs B to check what was included in standard cover, 
considering she says this type of cover is something she specifically wanted.
The policy schedule that was sent to Mrs B shortly after she took out the policy confirmed 
the level of cover shed opted for. It showed she was covered for Death from Accident but 
none of the additional options had been selected. 
Although Mrs Bs said shed seen her policy included cover for death of an insured pet, I 
havent seen anything in the terms and conditions or the policy schedule that actually says 
this. Or that that leads me to think the policy provided cover for death under all 
circumstances.  So Im satisfied the information More Th>n provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading and Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold to her.
Ive also considered Mrs Bs concerns about how her complaint was handled by More Th>n. 
There is very little I can add to what our investigator has said. It isn't clear whether the phone 
communication Mrs Bs referred to was regarding More Th>ns response to the outcome of 
her claim or the outcome of her complaint. Even if it is the latter, the regulator allows 
businesses up to the third working day from receipt of a complaint to resolve it informally, 
without needing to issue a final response letter. But where a complaint isn't resolved, it has 
the remainder of the eight weeks to send its final response. Mrs B has told us she didn't 
accept the outcome she received over the phone and More Th>n then issued its final 
response letter well within the allowed timescale. So, I dont find it has done anything wrong 
in this respect.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2020.Amy Osborne
Ombudsman