DRN-2758411
The complaint
Mr P complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish) made a mistake
in paying his pension income  
What happened
Mr P said he had two pension policies with Scottish. In November 2019 he was told his
monthly payments would increase. Instead they decreased by around £45 per month. He
complained in early January 2020 and finally got a reply in April 2020 to say it had been
overpaying him since 2015 with a total overpayment of £4688.64. Scottish said it would write
off the £688 approximately but he would need to repay the £4,000. He said he struggled to
manage on the income he received it was causing him and his partner stress. He had lost
faith in their management of his pension money which hed entrusted to them. It was their
mistake so he didnt think he should have to repay any of it.
Scottish said it had made a mistake and had been over paying Mr P. His payment had two 
parts, protected rights and non-protected rights. At its last review it made a mistake when it
entered his payments on the payroll system. The incorrect level continued from the 2015
review until it was reviewed again in November 2019 and the error was discovered. The
November 2019 review would have shown an increase in his income from around £91
monthly to £109 monthly for protected rights and around £172 monthly to £207 monthly for
the non-protected rights part. However, because it had been paying him too much the new
payments were lower than the historic payments. It apologised. It wrote off £688.64 of the
overpayment but said that Mr P needed to repay the £4,000 and asked him to agree a
repayment schedule. It said Mr P was notified in 2015 of the income level but the payment
made was too high. It thought Mr P might reasonably have noticed that he was receiving an
increased and not decreased income and to query it. It offered rather than a repayment of
£4,000 to deduct units of that value from his policy annuity holding so that his new income
review would reflect the overpayment. It confirmed no tax was deducted from Mr Ps pension
payments.
I issued a provisional decision and said the following:-
Mr P took out a flexible income annuity that allowed him to take a regular income within
certain income ranges that were offered to him. He took out the policy in 2010 following
advice from a financial adviser. The income at the start was £288.92 per month. In 2015 he
said the annuity was transferred to Scottish and in November he received a letter telling him
his pension income was to reduce. However, he said the letter said, if this new income is not
suitable for you, you can choose to change it to any amount between the minimum and
maximum available.
His income had two parts, a protected rights element and a non-protected rights element. As
the proposed new income was between the minimum and maximum income figures he
contacted his financial adviser for advice. The adviser contacted him in November 2015
suggesting he ask for a review. He said he then contacted Scottish by telephone to ask for a
review of the proposal and an increase. He believes he mustve had a conversation with
Scottish as he had made notes on the letter reading was £288.92 from 1/12/15 £361.64. He
says for this reason he wasnt surprised his payment increased as this is what he had
requested, and the new level was £361.64. In the light of this he didnt think he had been 
overpaid at all. I note this matches the amount that Scottish says it was paying.
I asked Scottish to comment on Mr Ps arguments that he wasnt overpaid, that hed spent
the money on day to day living and repayment would put him in hardship. Despite extending
time at its request to allow it to comment it had nothing to add. 
I find Mr Ps explanation to be a reasonable one. On that basis and in the absence of any 
comments from Scottish I didnt think there had been an overpayment, so I didnt think 
Scottish should seek to recover anything further from Mr P.
But if I was wrong in that conclusion, Scottish had made a mistake in overpaying Mr P.
Where there was a mistake the law would direct that Mr P was put back in the position he
wouldve been in. That would mean that he wouldnt have received the additional pension 
which would need to be repaid. However, the law provides some situations where a 
repayment isnt required where there has been a change of position by the recipient. This 
can be for example because the money has been spent in a way that means it isnt 
recoverable or that to repay would put Mr P into hardship.
Based on what Mr P said it seemed reasonable that he didnt think he was receiving an
overpayment as following his conversation he was expecting his pension to increase. He
said his monthly income was his basic state pension and the income from this policy.
His regular monthly outgoings (excluding food, petrol, clothes, insurance and car tax etc)
required more around 90% of his income. He had no savings, but in the past had generated
a small income from publishing. Based on this it seemed that if there was an overpayment 
Mr P had spent the money on day to day living in reliance on the fact he was entitled to it. In 
effect he changed his position in such a way that is now irreversible because the money has 
been spent and not saved. So, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to expect him to 
make repayment.
Even if I was wrong in that I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Mr P to make
any repayment as to do so would put him in hardship. I said that because Mr P said that with 
the reduction already made if he had to repay £4,000 over 8 years it would reduce his
income even further, cutting in effect 24% from his private income at a time when he
remained in debt without savings and had no cushion of money for unexpected expenditure
or increases in regular bills.
For the reasons given either there wasnt an overpayment or if there was it isnt fair or
reasonable to expect Mr P to repay because he changed his position and the money had
been spent and wasnt recoverable or because to recover any repayment would put him in
hardship.
So, I didnt think Mr P should have to repay the £4,000 which Scottish says it has overpaid to
Mr P and nor should Scottish adjust his future payments from the policy to reflect that. In
effect Mr P should be paid income from the policy as if the alleged overpayment was never 
made.
For the reasons given I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Scottish Friendly
Assurance Society Limited should not: -
1. seek the repayment of £4,000 from Mr P and
2. adjust his future income payments from the policy to reflect the overpayment. In
effect Mr P should be paid income from the policy as if the overpayment was never
made.If requested by Mr P Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited shall provide such
reasonable evidence as Mr P may from time to time reasonably request showing that it
hasnt reduced his income payments from his pension due to the alleged overpayment.
Mr P said he was satisfied with the provisional decision. He clarified his comment about a 
bank giving someone money belonging to another. In this case it was his own money that 
was being dealt with which Scottish were supposed to manage on his behalf.
Scottish replied just after my PD was issued to say that it was still of the view that the funds 
need to be repaid and it was happy to reach agreement on a repayment plan. It gave no 
reasons and didnt answer any of the arguments Mr P presented about not being overpaid, 
acting to his detriment on being entitled to the money or hadship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind. Scottish has not brought forward any further 
evidence or arguments that would enable me to do so.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision I think my proposed direction is appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited
Assurance Society Limited should: -
1. Not seek the repayment of £4,000 from Mr P and
2. Not adjust his future income payments from the policy to reflect the overpayment. In
effect Mr P should be paid income from the policy as if the alleged overpayment was 
never made.
If requested by Mr P, Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited shall provide such
reasonable evidence as Mr P may from time to time reasonably request showing that it
hasnt reduced his income payments from his pension due to the alleged overpayment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman