DRN-3550453
The complaint
Miss K complains about how AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled a claim under her home 
emergency insurance policy. When I mention AWP, I also mean its tradespeople and 
suppliers.
What happened
Miss K has a home emergency insurance policy with AWP. In April 2021 she noticed some 
water had appeared under a kitchen cupboard so she called AWP under her home 
emergency cover to make a claim. 
AWP sent out two plumbers who didnt locate or fix the leak. They told Miss K that she 
needed to have a special type of leak test carried out on her property in order to determine 
the source of the water. The plumbers told Miss K to arrange this test with her buildings 
insurance company.
Miss K then tried to arrange this but her buildings insurance company said it didnt know 
what the test was. It told Miss K that she needed to organise the leak to be repaired, then it 
would repair the damage caused by the leak.
So Miss K contacted a third-party tradesman who identified the source of the leak as a basin 
in her bathroom upstairs. Miss K paid him £25 for finding the problem. He advised Miss K to 
not use the basin until her buildings insurance fixed it. 
Miss K then made a claim under her buildings insurance policy which fixed the leak and 
repaired the damage the leak had caused. It took two months for this damage to be repaired, 
so Miss K couldnt use the basin for all of this time.
The leak was near to Miss Ks consumer unit so an electrician was sent to check it. The 
electrician unscrewed the consumer unit to examine it but he didnt correctly refit it, leaving 
some spaces in the unit blank.
Miss K complained to AWP about its service. One of the earlier plumbers returned 
unannounced a few weeks later to fix the consumer unit. Miss K was very distressed due to 
personal reasons at the time and she says the plumber barged past her at the door and 
covered up the gaps on the consumer unit with tape, which Miss K had specifically asked to 
not happen.
AWP contacted Miss K several weeks later and told her that the leak shed originally called it 
out for was covered under its policy. It offered to repair it, but Miss K had already had the 
work done by then.
AWP wrote to Miss K and apologised for its service. It offered her £40 as a gesture of 
goodwill for her inconvenience.
Miss K remained unhappy and she brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into it. He asked AWP for its information about what had taken place but AWP didnt 
provide this service with any more evidence despite being chased several times. 
So our investigator upheld Miss Ks complaint based on her evidence. He said AWP should 
refund the £25 paid by Miss K for the third-party tradesman and it should also pay a total of 
£250 for her distress and inconvenience.
AWP didnt respond to the view, so Miss Ks complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have made my decision based solely on Miss Ks evidence because AWP havent 
responded to this services repeated requests for information. I am upholding Miss Ks 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
I can see in AWPs policy wording that it covers:
Plumbing and drainage
Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage system which will result in water 
damage inside your home.
In the event of a claim being made, AWPs policy will:
Arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home;
Pay up to £1,000 in total (incl. VAT) for each emergency claim incident, towards 
labour costs (including call out charges, materials and parts required to effect 
emergency repairs in your home and overnight accommodation)
It seems to me that the initial two plumbers should have dealt with the issue at hand when 
they first visited Miss Ks house. Miss Ks policy seems to specifically cover the very 
eventuality AWP was called out for, and its later acceptance of Miss Ks claim confirms this.
From the evidence I have, I can see how Miss K was very inconvenienced by not having 
access to the basin in her bathroom. She has said how painful she found kneeling down 
repeatedly to wash her hands in the bath, and how inconvenient it was to use the kitchen 
sink to do simple things like brush her teeth. 
The plumbers caused Miss K significant inconvenience by asking to contact her buildings 
insurance for something that I think they should have done. 
Miss K then incurred further cost by calling out a third-party tradesman to identify the source 
of the leak at a cost to her of £25. I think this is something AWP should have done, so I am 
going to ask AWP to refund this payment.
Miss Ks inconvenience went on for two months while her claims under her buildings cover 
progressed. Any delays in this are not the responsibility of AWP, but the actions of its 
plumbers in failing to locate and carry out repairs have, I think, led directly to Miss Ks 
inconvenience. 
Miss K has also explained how distressed she was by the actions of AWPs plumber who accessed her property by barging past her when shed just had to deal with a significant 
personal issue. The evidence in the file doesnt seem to tell me who caused the damage to 
her consumer unit, or left the gaps in it, but I can see that AWPs workmen visited to repair it. 
I can also see that AWP sent an electrician to Miss K later in 2021 and carried out some 
repairs. So I am satisfied that AWP have accepted responsibility for the damage.
In the evidence, Miss K also mentions the discourteous behaviour of AWPs workmen and I 
have included this in my considerations.
Having read Miss Ks account of the repeatedly poor service she has had from AWP, I agree 
with our investigator that AWPs offer of £40 compensation isnt sufficient. Given Miss Ks 
inconvenience for two months and the distress caused to her by the visiting plumber, I think 
AWP should pay her a total of £250 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C 
SA should pay Miss K:
£25 for the cost of the third-party tradesman.
£250 for her distress and inconvenience. If £40 has already been paid then this can 
be deducted.
AWP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.*
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give Miss K a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman