DRN-2240015
The complaint
Mr J has complained Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly priced the cost of his pet insurance 
policy. 
Background 
Mr J took out a Pet Plan lifetime pet insurance policy in 2015 to cover his dog. The policy is 
underwritten by Allianz. 
Mr J made a complaint after seeing his 2019 renewal price, as he had seen cheaper quotes 
for the same policy online. He doesnt think its right that there is such a large difference in 
price between what he is paying and a quote for a new policy. He is also unhappy he wasnt 
provided with information about potential premium increases when he purchased the policy. 
Allianz say Mr Js premium is correct for the risk presented to them. But following our 
involvement, they agreed to offer Mr J £150 as a gesture of goodwill to settle the complaint. 
When our investigator looked at Mr Js complaint she thought the £150 Allianz have offered 
was fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr J did not accept the offer and asked for an Ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what their 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how they 
should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Js policy is too high, he 
should have been charged less for the policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
Generally, the more risk the insurer is taking in providing cover, the more the policy will cost. 
Thats why the cost of this type of policy goes up each year as the pet gets older  theres 
more risk of an older pet needing treatment than a younger pet. But there are also reasons 
why a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy that was taken out some time ago, and 
renewed each year since then.
A new policy wont provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell usually 
be an exclusion period, which limits the risk Allianz are taking - so a new policy will generally 
work out cheaper. In addition to that, Allianz applied a 10% discount incentive, which I know 
Mr J acknowledges.
Allianz will also take into account the possibility a pet may have visited the vet since the 
policy started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this 
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference 
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too. 
Mr Js Pet Plan policy isnt claims loaded like a lot of other policies. So, any claim made 
wouldnt have directly impacted the premium he paid. I can understand why Mr J feels that 
the policy price should be the same for the same breed of dog, of the same age, living at the 
same address. But while that might be right for a policy taken out on the exact same day, a 
direct comparison cannot be drawn between a policy taken out in 2015 and a new policy 
quoted for in 2019 or now.
Ive carefully reviewed the information Allianz have provided about how Mr Js premium was 
calculated and havent seen any evidence to suggest they have treated Mr J differently to 
how they would have treated any other existing policyholder in the same position. So I cant 
say Mr Js premium is unfair or tell Allianz to charge him a lower premium going forwards.
But I have also carefully considered Mr Js complaint that he wasnt given enough 
information, when he took his policy out, to understand that the premiums could increase as 
they have. 
In 2015 when Mr J took out his lifetime pet insurance policy Allianz should have given him 
sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions. And I think its possible Allianz didnt give Mr J enough 
information about the long-term costs of the policy he was buying.
But where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it 
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out. Its not my role to punish Allianz. 
Mr J chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover for his dog. And, as 
he chose to take out a Gold Pet Plan lifetime policy, he clearly had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided. 
I recognise that its possible he might have gone with another provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Mr J would have ended up with  it might have 
been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I think its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Mr J paying a 
significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking the same sort of factors into account when the premiums are calculated 
at renewal.
In fact, Mr Js Pet Plan policy is unlike a lot of policies on the market in that its not claims 
loaded and any claim he makes on the policy does not directly affect the premium 
calculation. So hes less likely to experience the sort of significant premium increases we 
see with a number of other lifetime pet insurance policies on the market. I note that Mr J has 
made substantial claims on his policy, so its likely he would have experienced significant 
premium increases on a policy which does take claims into account when calculating 
renewal premiums. 
Although I do think Allianz should have given Mr J better information about the potential 
policy costs, I dont think he would have been particularly shocked by the premium increase 
for his 2019 renewal. I say this as I know that Mr J has complained to Allianz about a similar 
increases in his premium before, so he knew this type of increase was possible and had 
decided to continue with the cover. And part of the reason why the premium increased as much as it did in 2019 was because Mr J changed address, which isnt something Allianz 
could have predicted at the outset. 
Having considered all of the above, I think Allianzs offer to pay Mr J £150 is a fair way to 
settle his complaint. 
My final decision
Allianz Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mr J £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. So my 
decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc should now pay £150. I dont require them to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman