DRN-3857736
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr J had been looking to buy a campervan and, in May 2022, he found one he was 
interested in on an online auction website. He contacted the seller to ask about buying it 
outside of the auction, and was quoted a price and sent a number of additional photos of the 
campervan. As he was happy with the price, Mr J then made a payment of £11,500 from his 
HSBC account to the account details the seller had given him, and the seller said the 
campervan would be delivered to him around a week later. Unfortunately, we now know the 
seller was a scammer.
On the day the campervan was supposed to be delivered, the scammer contacted Mr J to 
say there had been delays with the company that was supposed to be carrying out the 
delivery, and that it would be delivered a few days later. But the campervan wasnt delivered 
on this later date either and the scammer stopped responding to Mr J. Mr J then reported the 
payment to HSBC as fraud and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
HSBC investigated but said it had given Mr J a warning with advice on how to avoid potential 
scams before he made the payment. And it said it thought Mr J could have carried out 
further checks before making the payment. So it didnt agree to refund the money he had 
lost. Mr J wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that Mr J made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that it was genuine, or 
that he had ignored an effective warning before making the payment. So they thought HSBC 
should refund the money Mr J had lost as a result of the scam, plus interest. HSBC didnt 
agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr J fell victim to, in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr J ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning Mr J was shown when making the payment, and it 
says:
Caution  this could be a scam
WARNING  If someone has told you to mislead us about the reason for your payment and 
choose the wrong payment type, stop. This is a scam.
Fraudsters may advertise on social media, online marketplaces and on websites that seem 
legitimate but have actually been set up by fraudsters. They can also pretend to be a 
genuine business, access your emails or invoices, and ask you to make a payment to 
different account or provide you with account details for a new payment.
What you need to do before making the payment
Stop and think  if you are contacted by email, examine the email address, look out 
for any grammatical errors, or a change in content or format. Check it was sent by 
the expected company.
If the payment details have changed, contact the person or company using a phone 
number you have checked is genuine.
Stop and think  does this seem right, is the offer for a limited time or too good to be 
true?
Beware of false websites and reviews. Thoroughly research the seller online on 
official websites before making a purchase.Do not proceed if you are asked to pay by bank transfer rather than using a more 
secure way to pay, for example credit or debit card, which provides more protection 
against fraud.
If you are purchasing a high value item, for example a car, make sure you physically 
see it before making a payment.
Visit our Fraud Centre for further guidance on how to undertake the required checks before 
proceeding.
WARNING
By choosing to continue, you agree youve read our warning and are happy to proceed. You 
accept that we may not be able to recover your payment if it is sent to a fraudsters account. 
If youre unsure, please stop immediately.
While this warning does talk about fraudsters advertising on online marketplaces and gives 
examples of steps to take to avoid fraud that were relevant to the scam Mr J fell victim to, a 
number of the other things the warning mentions arent relevant to Mr J circumstances. The 
warning first mentions someone asking the customer to mislead HSBC about the reason for 
the payment, which hadnt happened here. And the first few bullet points talk about being 
contacted by email, payment details changing or an offer being available for a limited time, 
none of which are relevant to this scam.
I also dont think this warning goes into enough detail about what this kind of scam might 
look or feel like. And I dont think it was clear enough about the severity of the potential 
consequences of proceeding with the payment, or about how unlikely it was to be able to get 
the money back if it was sent to a scammer. So I dont think this warning was specific or 
impactful enough to be effective in Mr Js circumstances.
And, as I dont think the warning was effective, I therefore also dont think HSBC has 
established that Mr J ignored an effective warning when making the payment.
Did Mr J have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
HSBC has said Mr J could have carried out more checks before making the payment and 
that, if he had done some of the checks or followed some of the steps mentioned in the 
warning he was shown, the scam could have been prevented.
But Mr J had seen the campervan advertised for sale on a reputable website, by a seller 
whod been on the website for a number of years and had generally positive reviews. And 
hed then contacted the seller, exchanged a significant amount of correspondence with them 
and been sent a number of photos and further details about the vehicle. So I think its 
reasonable that this made the sale seem genuine to him.
The price Mr J was given for the campervan was within the range values hed been looking 
at. And while these types of vehicles are difficult to value accurately, Ive not seen any 
conclusive evidence that the price he was given was too good to be true. So I dont think 
there was anything about the price which should have caused him significant concern.
Mr J was given the option to come and see the vehicle in person and pay at that point, but 
this was inconvenient for him as he was away for work at the time. So while he hadnt 
viewed the vehicle in person, as the warning suggested, he had been offered the chance to 
do so. So I think its reasonable that this didnt cause him significant concern.Mr J had done several online checks into the campervan and its tax and MOT history. And 
these showed the registration matched the make and model he had been shown, the 
campervan had been correctly taxed, and didnt uncover any red flags or potential issues. So 
I think its reasonable Mr J thought he had checked that the campervan was genuine.
Mr J has also said he was under the impression he was making the purchase through the 
online auction website, and so was covered by the protections the website offered. And Ive 
seen a copy of the order confirmation email he received which does appear as if it has come 
from the online auction website, explains how he should make the payment and mentions 
the protections for the buyer. So, while he had actually made the payment outside of the 
website and wasnt covered by any of its protections, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
he thought he was protected.
I appreciate there were further checks Mr J could have done, or further steps he could have 
taken, that could have uncovered or prevented the scam. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to think he had carried out sufficient checks or was protected against 
these risks. And I dont think there was anything else about the circumstances which should 
have caused him significant concern. So I dont think it was unreasonable for him not to do 
further checks.
And so I dont think HSBC has established that Mr J made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think HSBC has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think HSBC should refund 
the full £11,500 Mr J lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr J the £11,500 he lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected his claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman