DRN-3772024
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC placed a late payment marker on her
credit file when her standing order didnt cover the minimum payment. She says if Tesco had
just changed her direct debit date as she wanted, none of this would have happened.
What happened
Mrs M said shed tried to change the date of her direct debit onto her Tesco credit card in
July 2020. But this required a complicated change, and Tesco didnt set it up for her. So she
ended up paying late. Mrs M said she talked to Tesco about this in August 2020, and was
told again that she would have to make two manual payments before her direct debit date
could be changed.
Mrs M said instead of this complicated change to her direct debit, she was encouraged by
the member of staff to set up a standing order instead. Shed never done that before. And
Mrs M said shed now found out that it was bad advice. During the pandemic, her interest
rate went up. She said she didnt get any letters about this, because she wasnt getting any
post at the time. Mrs M said the only reason the higher minimum payment wasnt covered,
was because shed been persuaded to set up the standing order.
Mrs M said shed recently applied for a mortgage, and had found the late payment charge
Tesco put on her credit file was going to affect that. She wanted this removed from her credit
file, she didnt think this was her mistake.
Tesco said it accepted it made a mistake over changing Mrs Ms direct debit in July 2020.
But after this, Mrs M said shed prefer to pay by standing order. Tesco said the problem was
just that Mrs M hadnt increased the amount of her standing order in June 2021, when the
interest free period on her card ended and her monthly minimum payment went up.
Tesco said it had written to Mrs M about the increase in her monthly payments before this
happened. It wouldnt amend her credit file now. It did pay £50 because it had failed to
amend her direct debit in July 2020.
Our investigator said Tesco had properly notified Mrs M about the changes to her interest
rate. But he thought that things went wrong before this, on the call Mrs M had with Tesco in
August 2020. He didnt think Mrs M had knowingly opted to set up a standing order on this
call. He thought shed wanted to make a change to her direct debit date, and when a
standing order was discussed instead, he didnt think Tescos agent had properly explained
this to Mrs M. He said he was left with an over-riding feeling that Mrs M wasnt clear what the
difference was between a direct debit and a standing order.
Our investigator thought Tesco should put in place a new direct debit payment arrangement
for Mrs M. It should amend her credit file, and it should pay an extra £100 in compensation.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that Mrs M chose to set up a standing order. And it felt she did
understand what a standing order was. Tesco wanted an ombudsman to consider this
complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator said Mrs M didnt ask to set up a standing order on her call of August 
2020. And he felt that the agent hadnt properly explained how a standing order would 
work. Ive listened carefully to this call, and considered what Mrs M has said to us now. I 
havent reached the same conclusions.
I do think there was confusion on the call in August 2020, but I think this confusion was
about when Mrs M would need to make her next payment, to make sure that her August
payment was covered. I do think Mrs M did understand that a standing order was 
something she had to set up, not something Tesco would do for her. And I dont think 
that Mrs M has suggested at all, either on this call or in her complaint to us, that she 
didnt understand that a standing order was for a fixed amount.
When Mrs M complained to us, she said that I was encouraged by the member of staff 
to set up a standing order instead of a direct debit, something that I have never done 
and do not find effective working full time and with young children. That suggests to me 
that Mrs M prefers not to have standing orders because they are not convenient. It 
doesnt suggest to me that Mrs M was at all confused about how standing orders work.
I think the agent on the August call gave Mrs M a choice of ways to achieve what she
wanted, a payment which was made after shed received her monthly salary. And I can
understand why Mrs M felt it would be easier to set up a standing order, given that a 
change to her regular direct debit payment date would require more than one manual 
payment, at specific times, and that this had already gone wrong once. But when Mrs M 
opted for a standing order, she accepted the responsibility for making sure the right 
payment reached her account on time.
For those reasons, I think Mrs M was responsible for increasing the amount of her 
standing order, when Tesco wrote to her to say that her monthly payment would be 
going up.
I know Mrs M said she wasnt getting post around the time that her interest free offer 
ended, so wouldnt have got any letters from Tesco warning her about this change. But 
Tesco said Mrs Ms account preferences were set to email, so it emailed her with its 
letter warning that she would be charged interest from 27 June. That letter, dated 7 
June, did tell Mrs M that her minimum payment would be affected.
I understand that Mrs M feels its harsh for her recent mortgage application to be 
affected by this late payment, and that she thinks if Tesco had been able to make 
straightforward direct debit changes, she wouldnt have been in this situation. As I said, I 
understand the reasons she chose to start paying by standing order in August 2020. But 
what I can hear on the call in August 2020, and what Mrs M has said to us now, makes 
me think the reason she has a late payment marker now is because she unfortunately 
overlooked the requirement to change her standing order, when the interest free period 
on this card ended.
I know that Mrs M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, and said it had nothing to add.
Mrs M replied to object. She said she wanted to make some additional points. 
Mrs M noted what Id quoted her as saying, and said she only said this after the situation had 
occurred. She said she of course preferred not to have standing orders now, shed learned 
from this experience, but she didnt know that previously. Mrs M wanted me to comment on 
this, because she said there was complete confusion. Shed never used standing orders so 
she said she wouldnt know and wasnt advised on how they work. 
Mrs M said that Tesco should have advised her on how much to set the standing order up 
for, considering there would be rate rises on her card. If it had advised her to set the order 
up for a reasonable amount, this would not have happened. She also said she should have 
been given advice on changing the standing order, advised to adjust the payment each 
month. She said no terms and conditions for standing orders were read out to her. Mrs M 
said that as far as she was concerned, the advisor gave her a set amount, and she put faith 
in the advisor that this would be enough.
Mrs M also asked for evidence of the email that Tesco sent to let her know about changes to 
her interest rates. She said she didnt see this email.
Mrs M said that the point of the complaint was never purely based on her mortgage, and she 
had now successfully renewed her mortgage. 
Mrs M said that in the last paragraph I had said I understood the reasons for her choosing a 
standing order, but Mrs M said she didnt choose a standing order and it was very frustrating 
that I had repeatedly suggested otherwise. Mrs M said she was persuaded and encouraged 
to, through a very confusing conversation with Tesco. She said this was also the only option 
aside from a complicated direct debit instruction.
Mrs M said Id twice set out that she would prefer to pay by standing order, but that was 
never the case. She said this was just bad advice, and she had trusted Tesco to give sound 
financial advice. Mrs M said that as previously quoted, the advisor had confused her wording 
between direct debit and standing order, and she said I hadnt mentioned that. 
Because Mrs M had asked for a document that I had considered in reaching my provisional 
decision on this complaint, I arranged for her to receive the letter that Tesco said it sent to 
her by email, notifying her of changes to her interest rate. I also arranged for Mrs M to 
receive the statements that Tesco sent to us, which tell her the minimum payment required 
each month. 
Mrs M replied to say that what wed sent wasnt what shed asked for. She said shed asked 
for evidence of an email, and we had forwarded a letter. She said her preferred method of 
contact was by email, and she didnt get an email from Tesco about this. She wanted to see 
evidence of an email.
Our organisation provides an independent and impartial dispute resolution service. As part of 
that, I am happy to share with Mrs M the evidence Ive considered to reach a decision. But I 
do think I had sufficient evidence to reach a decision. Although I understand why Mrs M disagrees with that, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to seek further evidence in this case 
solely because Mrs M wishes to see it. Thats not consistent with our independent and 
impartial role.
I understand there may have been some confusion around how this letter was sent to Mrs M, 
because Tesco said when it wrote to her about her complaint that it had issued a letter to her 
confirmed home address. And Mrs M said she wasnt receiving any post at the time that 
Tesco sent this letter. But Tesco has always said to our service that it sent this 7 June letter 
to Mrs M by email. It said that before Mrs M told us her preference was to receive emails. So 
I am satisfied that its most likely that this letter was sent by email to Mrs M. 
I also note that this wasnt the only warning Mrs M had of a change to her monthly minimum 
payment. The minimum payment she needs to make each month is set out clearly and 
prominently on the first page of her monthly statement. And her statement dated 27 April 
2021 also told her about the upcoming change to interest rates. That says on the front 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION Please note that your introductory purchase rate will expire 
27/06/2021, the standard monthly variable rate will apply after that date. 
Mrs M hasnt suggested that she couldnt access her statements, and indeed, if for some 
reason she wasnt able to see these, I would have expected her to raise this with Tesco right 
away. 
Considering all of the above, I do think Tesco did enough to bring to Mrs Ms attention that 
her interest free period was ending. 
Returning to the call that she had with Tesco back in summer 2020, Ive listened to this call 
again, and Im afraid I still dont agree with Mrs M. I understand that Mrs M had experienced 
difficulties trying to change her direct debit payment date. But I do not agree that she was 
persuaded or coerced into changing to paying by standing order. 
Mrs M rang up to fix what had gone wrong with her missed payments. She had asked 
previously to change her payment date to make budgeting easier for her. The process for 
achieving this change was apparently quite complex, and Tesco had failed to arrange this for 
her. 
Early in the call, Mrs M said she was not keen on doing this again, as it had been a bit of a 
hassle. 
I can then hear the agent explain that how many changes were needed, depended on when 
in the payment cycle Mrs M requested the change. I can hear her explaining that the only 
option on the day of the call for changing Mrs Ms direct debit payment date to the date she 
wanted was to make a number of manual payments, in the way previously attempted. The 
agent suggested that this could be because of where Mrs M was in the payment cycle, and 
said she could call again in a week or so, when she might find she would only need to make 
one manual payment to change the direct debit date. Mrs M was unenthusiastic about these 
options.
The agent went on to say that the other thing she could do was to set up a standing order on 
the 28th or 29th of the month, that would pay for that month. Mrs M said then yeah, I could do 
that, couldnt I, at my end. Thats fine. I think Mrs M simply chose the option which was most 
convenient at the time, to solve her immediate problem. Mrs M does appear to have been 
clear that this was something she needed to do, and she doesnt appear to me to have been 
unsure about how a standing order would operate. There was discussion of when she needed to have this standing order set up  what date of 
the month, and whether this needed to be in place for that month or next, and I think there 
was some confusion about making sure this month was paid, but Mrs M said she would 
make a payment on the call anyway. There doesnt seem to me to have been advice given 
by the agent on this call about the amount that Mrs M should pay each month. So I dont 
think Tesco was responsible for setting the amount of Mrs Ms standing order.
I can hear that terms werent always used accurately on this call. But when the agent later 
referred to what Mrs M was setting up as a direct debit Mrs M corrected her, and said she 
would be setting up a standing order.
I also accept that Mrs M wasnt warned on this call that she would need to ensure that her 
monthly payment increased once her interest free period ended, around a year later. But I do 
think that Tesco did enough to draw this change to Mrs Ms attention closer to the time, both 
by emailing a letter to her in June, and by setting this change out on her April statement, and 
then requesting a larger minimum payment on the 27 July 2021 statement.
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman