DRN-3082389
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the length of time Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has 
taken to investigate and decide whether to accept a claim for damage caused by an escape 
of water under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms property suffered damage caused by an escape of water from underfloor 
pipes in August 2019. They reported the claim to their home insurer  Admiral  and strip out 
works, and alternative accommodation costs were initially approved.
Multiple claim investigations took place including interviews with Mr and Mrs M. But in 
April 2020, Admiral took the decision to cease further alternative accommodation payments 
until it finished validating the claim.
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the length of time Admiral are taking to make a claim 
decision and it deciding to withhold further alternative accommodation payments. Theyve 
said theyre now having to live in a property with no heating or cooking facilities which is 
having a huge impact on their lives.
Admiral considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in September 2020. It explained that effort 
had been being made to progress their claim but accepted there had been some delays due 
to the impact of current circumstances. It apologised for not having the appropriate 
provisions in place to deal with backlogs it was experiencing and paid Mr and Mrs M £175 
compensation. In terms of the payments for accommodation, it explained that the validation 
team were still waiting for information from Mr and Mrs M and that it had followed the correct 
process. It said it wasnt able to pay for further alternative accommodation until the claim 
was validated and accepted.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. In May 2021, our investigator thought Admiral had treated Mr and Mrs M 
unfairly. He said Admiral ought to complete its investigations and make a claim decision 
within 30 days. Our investigator reconsidered these findings following further submissions 
from both sides. He issued a second assessment of the complaint in July 2021. This 
explained that Admiral is entitled to validate a claim and that it wouldnt be reasonable for 
our service to impose a time limit on this. Instead he considered the level of compensation 
Admiral had paid for delays up to the point of its final response letter, which he thought was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to determine whether Admiral has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in the way it has 
handled their claim, Ive first considered its obligations under the relevant regulations. In this 
case that is the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS).
ICOBS 8.1.1 states that an insurer must settle claims promptly and fairly. This means, that 
when carrying out all activities in relation to the claim, the insurer must do so with efficiency 
in the circumstances, as well as considering what is fair given the situation. So, Ive thought 
about this when arriving at my decision.
That said, its important to note that an insurer is entitled to investigate the circumstances 
which give rise to a claim in order to confirm that it is required to cover the loss. This is 
because cover under the policy is dependent on a number of things, such as the specific 
circumstances of the loss being covered or Mr and Mrs Ms adherence to the general terms 
and conditions. 
So, theres nothing unusual or unfair about Admiral investigating the claim before making a 
decision. What I need to decide is whether Admiral has caused any unreasonable or 
unnecessary delays during its investigations.
Ive looked through the history of Mr and Mrs Ms claim and I can see that Admirals 
investigations have been going on for some time. I can appreciate the frustration this has 
caused to Mr and Mrs M. Admiral has accepted that there were some avoidable delays 
between the claim being registered and its final response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. And I 
agree this was the case. 
From what Ive seen, the early stages of the claim were delayed by the switching off of the 
drying equipment and some disagreements over measurements and figures supplied by 
Mr and Mrs M. The impact of the pandemic also caused some delays to Admirals agents 
attending the property and/or moving the claim forward in a timely manner  such as 
between January and February 2020 and between March and April 2020 where no 
significant progress appears to have been being made. But its these delays which Admiral 
has already accepted, apologised and compensated for. 
Since issuing its final response letter, I can see that Admiral has been progressing the claim 
and its investigations efficiently, with there being regular action on the claim, and no 
unreasonable or lengthy gaps in progress. I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude that the time taken to validate this claim is excessive or unreasonable here. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations as they have been waiting for a decision on 
their claim for some time. But ultimately, Admiral is entitled to investigate and validate the 
circumstances of a claim before accepting liability. And at this stage, I have seen that it is 
doing so. 
Admiral has apologised for the delays it has caused and paid Mr and Mrs M £175 to 
compensate them. As Admiral have accepted there have been avoidable delays, Ive 
needed to decide whether, in light of those delays, Admiral has acted reasonably in the 
compensation it has paid, to recognise the upset and inconvenience this has caused to Mr 
and Mrs M.Ive considered the cause of these delays and the impact they have had on Mr and Mrs M. 
Having done so, I think the apology, and level of compensation paid by Admiral are 
reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the impact of the delays which Admiral was 
solely responsible for. I say this because claims of this nature will always result in some 
distress and inconvenience to the policyholder  and this isnt the fault or responsibility of the 
insurer. What Ive had to consider is the additional and unwarranted frustration 
Mr and Mrs M have suffered as a result of Admirals (or its agents) actions or inactions.  
Having done so, I think £175 does recognise the additional frustration Mr and Mrs M have 
suffered, over and above what would usually be expected as a result of a claim of this 
nature.
Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy that Admiral initially covered the cost of their alternative 
accommodation but have since decided to stop doing so. And again, I can understand and 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations here. But its important to point out that their 
policy only provides cover for alternative accommodation which is required due to causes 
covered by their policy. This means that if their claim isnt covered, neither would their costs 
of alternative accommodation be. So, until their claim has been validated, and either 
accepted or declined, I cant determine whether Admiral is required to cover these costs. 
It follows that at this stage, Ill not be making any further recommendations against Admiral. 
However, should Mr and Mrs M have further cause to complain about the handling of their 
claim, or the decision that is ultimately reached, they can raise this with Admiral as a new 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
 
Im satisfied the £175 compensation offered is fair and reasonable. And so, 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay this to Mr and Mrs M, if it hasnt already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman