DRN-4161490
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022, Ms D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. The agreement was for £5,787 over five years; with 58 monthly repayments of 
£97.91 and final repayment of £107.91. At the time, the car was around seven years old, and 
had done 63,000 miles.
Ms D said she had to pay for a number of repairs. In October 2022 she paid for spark plugs, 
air filter, engine oil, an oil filter, and a ball joint as part of a full service. She said she 
organised and paid for the service to keep the warranty valid.
She then paid for a repair to fix misfiring, new brake pads, and a new clutch. In November 
2022 she paid for a new wiper motor. 
She was also unhappy that there were rips in the drivers seat and in the carpet, and she 
said the parcel shelf was missing. 
She said she had to pay £322 for parts and the service. She said she had to hire a car whilst 
this car was in for repairs. This cost her £217.
She said shed been told the car was in good working order and had a full service before she 
got it. She said the number of faults she had to have fixed showed this wasnt the case.
In December 2022 Startline partly upheld Ms Ds complaint. They said the dealer had paid 
for the repairs to the clutch and windscreen wiper motor and the broker had paid £100 
towards the cost of the car hire.
They didnt uphold her complaint about the damage to the carpet and the seat as they said 
these were cosmetic and she would have seen them before she got the car. They said the 
cars service history was available to Ms D to check before she entered into the agreement. 
They said the broker had already paid £100 towards a new parcel shelf.  
They declined to reimburse her other costs as they said the suppling dealer should have had 
the opportunity to do the repairs. They said they wouldnt reimburse the cost of the repairs 
because Ms D had the work done without prior authorisation. 
Ms D wasnt happy with Startlines response, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was faults with the car. He said that the car should have 
been serviced before it was supplied to Ms D, and if it had, many of the initial issues would 
have been fixed before the car was supplied.
He also felt that Startline were responsible for the repairs to the windscreen wiper motor, and 
the clutch and gearbox repairs. He said this meant they should cover Ms Ds costs for the 
car hire.
Startline accepted our investigators outcome and agreed to reimburse Ms D as hed 
suggested.
Shortly after he issued his opinion, Ms D reported faults with the gearbox to Startline. Ms D 
said the dealer was willing to take the car back, but after Startline told her how long this may 
take, she said this would leave her without the car and she needed to stay mobile. She said 
the supplying dealer told her it wasnt economical to repair the gearbox. She said another 
garage had told her the gearbox needed to be replaced.
The warranty she had agreed to cover the cost of £915 towards the repair. This left Ms D 
with a balance of £650 to pay, plus £180 shed paid to get her own report. She also wanted 
Startline to contribute to the cost of a new Lambda sensor. In total she asked Startline to pay 
£1017.99 for:
Gearbox and detailed report £322
Service & Car Rental £503
Lambda Sensor £72.99
Compensation for stress etc £120
Startline said Ms D was responsible for the servicing of the car. They offered to pay £395 
towards the cost of the repairs.
Our investigator issued a second opinion addressing the issues that had been raised since 
his first view. He said that Startlines offer to pay half the costs of the gearbox repair was fair, 
as was their offer to pay half the cost of the replacement Lambda sensor. He said that both 
parts were liable to wear and tear, so it wasnt reasonable to expect them to pay the full cost. 
He said that Startline should:
Pay Ms D £100 caused by the stress and inconvenience of being provided an 
unsatisfactory car.
Refund the £217 hire car costs in total  (Startline needed to confirm that the 
broker has paid their amount or cover the lot) plus 8% interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Startline needed to refund the amounts paid for the service and the associated 
replacement parts plus 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
Startline pay Ms D the £395 as previously offered.
Ms D accepted his findings. Startline disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision. They said the amount they were being asked to pay was excessive as it 
included serviceable items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline were responsible. 
There is no dispute that the car had faults. The issue at dispute here is what redress and 
repairs should Startline pay for. They are unhappy that our investigator suggested they 
should pay for serviceable items. They said theyd offered to pay £395 to Ms D but felt that 
asking to pay for oil, filters, brake pads etc was excessive.
Id expect a second hand car to have some wear and tear, and I wouldnt ordinarily expect 
Startline to pay for such serviceable items. So Ive reviewed the available information to see 
whether its reasonable that Startline pay for those parts.
I note that the serviceable parts were supplied as part of the service. Ive seen the original 
advert for the car Startline supplied to Ms D and it clearly states, in block capitals, that it had 
a full service history. Startline said Ms D should have checked that. I disagree. It was 
reasonable for her to rely on the statement made by the supplying dealer and broker. 
Ms D arranged her own service. I think it was reasonable for her to do that, especially as she 
was concerned that it would impact on the warranty she had with the car. So Im satisfied 
that Startline pay for the cost of the service, including the associated parts:  replacement 
filters, oil, brake pads, spark plug, ball joint. This is because I would have expected these to 
have been replaced before it was supplied to Ms D if it had been, as advertised, fully 
serviced. 
I also think its reasonable they cover Ms Ds costs of the vehicle health check. This is 
because Ms D had a number of problems with the car and had to obtain her own 
independent report.
Im also satisfied that Startline pay Ms D £117 to cover the outstanding costs of her hiring a 
car to keep mobile. Again this isnt something I would pay in every case. But considering the 
difficulty shed had getting a response from the supplying dealer, the time taken to repair, 
and Ms Ds mobility issues, Im satisfied in this case that Startline pay the rental costs. 
Im satisfied that its not reasonable to ask Startline to pay for repairs to the carpet and the 
seat. Ive looked at the photo and the damage is due to wear and tear  and not a fault.
Startline agreed to pay half the cost of the repair to the gearbox and the Lambda sensor. I 
think that is a fair and reasonable offer. Ms D has had multiple problems with the car, 
including issues with the clutch. But that doesnt mean that the fault was present or 
developing at the time of sale. I wont ask them to pay for the full repair so they should pay 
the amount already offered.Putting things right
As Im upholding this complaint Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Refund the additional £117 for car hire cost
Pay Ms D £395 as previously offered towards repairs
Refund the total costs Ms D paid for service, filters, oil, brake pad, spark plug, ball 
joint and health check plus 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
In addition Startline should pay Ms D £100 for the distress and inconvenience of being 
provided an unsatisfactory car, and the delays in responding, and arranging repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Ms Ds complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must 
follow the instructions Ive set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman