The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited isnt paying his claim on his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D raised a claim with Admiral in April 2019 for malicious damage to his car. He reported 
that a third party scratched the whole side of his car across the doors, which had a ceramic 
coating and PPF applied to them. When Mr D spoke to Admiral to log the claim, the advisor 
discussed the protective finishes and said the car would have to be put back (by Admiral) to 
the way it was before the incident. However, after Mr D had submitted the claim Admiral said 
it wouldn't cover the film or coating. It said this was a modification that wasn't covered by the 
policy terms.
Mr D raised a complaint about this as well as the progress of his claim. Admiral issued two 
responses to his complaints. It awarded £100 for the trouble and upset the incorrect 
information by the advisor caused. And then offered £300 as a gesture of goodwill towards 
the repair of the door. Separately it offered £20 for unnecessary calls, £50 for the lack of 
communication and a further £50 for the delay in sending the £300. So in total for these 
issues it sent Mr D cheques for £520.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted to be covered for the cost of 
the reapplication of the ceramic coating and PPF  and for his fuel costs travelling to and 
from the repairers. He said he wasn't asked about modifications when he renewed his cover. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. I set out that I didnt intend to 
uphold it as I considered the ceramic coating and PPF did meet the definition of 
modifications and so werent covered under the policy. And I said Admiral had given Mr D 
enough information to make him aware modifications weren't covered and that the finishes 
he'd added to his car were classed as modifications under this policy.
The policy defined Modifications as:
Any changes to your cars standard specification, including accessories and additional 
parts; optional extras and aftermarket alterations; trade related changes and parts.
Mr Ds car didn't come with the film or coating as standard, so these were changes he'd 
made to the car. Mr D is claiming under the section for Damage to your car and one of the 
exclusions that applies to this section said that Admiral will not pay:
for replacing or repairing any modifications, unless they form part of the 
manufacturers standard specification, optional extras or accessories fitted due to 
disability that we have agreed to cover.
DRN-1976508So based on the above term, I was satisfied that Admiral wasn't required to repair the film or 
coating on Mr Ds doors.
I then considered the phone call with the advisor, where Mr D was told the repair would be 
covered by his policy. I accepted it wouldve been very disappointing for him to find out he 
wasn't covered after being told he was. However, misinformation by an advisor doesn't 
change his policy terms into what he was incorrectly told. But I did think about if hed acted 
differently due to the misinformation. Looking at what happened, including the fact Mr D took 
the car to a garage of his choice, I didnt consider the misinformation had changed the 
position he wouldve been in as hed always have had the repairs done. However I agreed 
Admiral should compensate him for mis-managing his expectations. Itd offered £300 
towards the repair for its misinformation, which I thought was fair in the circumstances.
Mr D said he wasn't asked about modifications when he renewed his insurance and on 
listening to the call, I accepted he wasn't asked a question. So I said the advisor couldve 
done more in this call. But the advisor did mention modifications, letting Mr D know they 
wouldnt be covered. And that his insurance schedule (that was sent after the call) did cover 
modifications.
On the first page of the schedule I was provided with, in the Vehicle Details section, it said 
Modifications: None and in brackets below this it said Anything which changes the makers 
standard specification. It also said to call Admiral if he had any queries. So while I 
accepted Mr D wasn't asked during the call, he was told modifications weren't covered and I 
considered his policy schedule made it clear what modifications were. On reading this I 
thought he shouldve been aware the coating and film would be classed as a modification, 
and so he shouldve called Admiral. Mr D has a responsibility to check his paperwork is 
correct and if hed contacted Admiral it wouldve told him the film and coating weren't 
covered and he couldve decided whether to continue with the insurance. As he didn't call, 
Admiral wasn't aware of these and he went ahead with the insurance as it was  with him 
not being covered for the film or coating. 
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that as he has fully comprehensive car 
insurance it should cover every eventuality  and his vehicle as it is. And that the ceramic 
coating and PPF are not modifications, just enhancements to protect the car. He said 
Admiral had handled the claim extremely poorly and that other insurers would not class 
these enhancements as modifications  and that he wouldve declared them if asked. He 
acknowledged that he wouldve always had the coating reapplied but that he should be 
covered for this cost. He provided copies of the multiple motor schedules he received 
(numbered 1-6) and also said he didnt receive any follow-up paperwork.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While I may not individually comment on 
every concern Mr D has raised to our service and in response to my provisional decision, I 
have read his submissions fully. In this decision I will be dealing with the crux of the 
complaint he brought to us.
Mr D refers to the ceramic coating and PPF as enhancements, not modifications. However, I 
dont agree that these definitions are mutually exclusive. In order to enhance his car with 
these additional features, he has had to change the standard specification by adding 
something to it. And his motivations for having these enhancements isnt a factor here. The 
key factor is whether the ceramic coating and PPF meet Admirals definition of a modification 
 and I consider they do. This is further proved in my opinion by the additional cost of 
reapplying the enhancements above just restoring the doors to standard specification. And that the repair centres that Admiral approves dont supply these finishes. This is because 
they are an addition, outside of the cars standard specification and so are not available at all 
garages. And as Admiral dont cover modifications like this, they havent needed to authorise 
a repair garage that does this work.
Mr D has said he has fully comprehensive cover and has asked why Admiral didnt ask for 
an additional premium for the modifications if they considered they needed to. However, that 
isnt how this policy works. Mr D does have fully comprehensive cover, but in line with his 
policy terms  very few, if any insurance policies do cover every eventuality. And the policy 
he took out simply doesnt cover modifications  so there is no extra charge, it just doesnt 
pay out for the cost of repairing or replacing these.
Ive reviewed the motor insurance schedules Mr D provided in response to the provisional 
decision. Copy 1 is not a motor schedule but a proposal and on this the dashcam is listed, 
however it also lists 18 years no claims discount. Copy 3 is a schedule produced the same 
day as copy 1, but lists 17 years no claims. And on review it seems copies 2 and 5, and 
separately 4 and 6 are duplicates of the same schedules.
Looking closer at the schedules, copy 3 was produced on the 12 September 2018, whereas 
copies 2/5 and 4/6 were produced nearly two weeks later. These state the reason they had 
been produced was a Policy Update and 2/5 shows a lower premium than 4/6. 4/6 is the 
same as the one I referenced in my provisional decision. However, on relistening to the 
sales call and reviewing the paperwork Mr D has now provided, I accept that 4/6 is not the 
final schedule for his insurance. It was produced initially during the call and 2/5 was 
produced at the end of the call, when Mr D mentioned the dashcam and his premium then 
dropped. I also note the advisor does let Mr D know he will receive a number of schedules 
due to them working through the quotes on the phone and he apologies for this.
While Ive considered the number of schedules produced, it seems these were due to the 
renewal quotation changing. And Mr D was told about there being multiple schedules and 
why at the time they were sent. The part of the schedule that I relied on to reach my decision 
was the wording under modifications, quoted above in the background section. So while I 
accept the copy Admiral gave our service wasnt the correct version  and instead of None  
the correct version listed the dashcam, this doesnt change my decision. The schedule itself 
had the same description of modifications and so I still consider this shouldve alerted Mr D 
to call Admiral. 
Mr D has said he wasnt sent any follow-on paperwork after the sales call, but has also 
provided me with copies of the paperwork that was available to him. Hes commented on the 
policy terms and has provided schedules and the proposal that he had access to. So still I do 
consider he had enough information available to him to realise Admiral wouldve considered 
his ceramic coating and PPF modifications. I appreciate he feels very strongly about this 
case and this decision will be a disappointment to him, but I cant fairly ask Admiral to cover 
the additional costs hes asked for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr D's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.Amy Osborne
Ombudsman