DRN-1868458
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Metro Bank plc wont refund a transaction that he said he didnt 
make.
What happened
Mr E was abroad from 17 to 20 November 2019. While abroad, he received a text message 
from Metro Bank advising him that his account was overdrawn. He checked his account via 
his mobile banking app and saw a payment for £198.72 to Expedia which he didnt 
recognise. The payment was made on 18 November 2019.
He called Metro Bank and told it that he hadnt made the transaction. He found out the 
payment was for a hotel reservation in another country for 18 November 2019, but it was a 
no-show as no-one checked in at the hotel. He said he was on holiday elsewhere, he didnt 
know who Expedia was and hed never used it before. Metro Bank credited his account 
temporarily while it made enquiries of Expedia.
Metro Bank subsequently re-debited his account. This left his account overdrawn again.
Mr E raised a fraud complaint and asked Metro Bank to refund the disputed payment.
Metro Bank decided not to refund him. It said Expedia had provided evidence that:
the booking was made in his name and address
his card details were provided, including the CVV number
he told it he still had his card with him
he had used his card while abroad and on the same date as the disputed transaction
the email address given at the booking was his email address, which Metro Bank had 
on file
he had used Expedia for another hotel reservation in July 2019.
It concluded that Mr E had authorised the transaction.
Mr E wasnt happy with Metro Banks decision, so he asked this service to investigate. 
He told us he didnt use his Metro Bank card for flight or hotel bookings. He used another 
account. He said he had saved his card details on certain websites, mainly for services 
which he uses regularly, such as Netflix, but he didnt store them on his phone. He told us 
his mobile banking app is protected by a password, PIN and facial recognition. 
He also asked why he would make a hotel booking in one country while visiting another. And 
he said just because the booking was made in his name, with his email address, doesnt 
mean he authorised it.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude that the payment had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it was 
most likely made and authorised by Mr E.Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view and so this case has now come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the facts, the transactions, the relevant 
regulations and the evidence. Both Mr E and Metro Bank have read the investigators view, 
so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im afraid Ive reached the same overall conclusions as those 
reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
In short, Metro Bank is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr E says he didnt make the payment of £198.72 and is seeking a refund of that 
amount. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether I think Mr E authorised 
the payment.
Ive seen Metro Banks technical reports. Im satisfied Mr Es card details were used in order 
for the disputed transaction to take place. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Metro Bank to hold him liable. So, I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr E consented to the 
payment being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro Bank to conclude that Mr E had 
consented to and authorised the transaction. Ill explain why.
First, I need to clarify dates. The investigators view suggests that the hotel booking was 
made on 26 July 2019 but paid for on 18 November 2019. Mr E said he couldnt have made 
the booking because he was in another country, arranging a relatives funeral. However, the 
transaction report from Expedia shows that the July booking was for another hotel, unrelated 
to this disputed transaction. I think the July booking is a separate transaction. He didnt 
dispute that transaction. This shows that he had used Expedia in the past, although I 
appreciate he might have used a merchant in the Expedia Group trading under another 
name.
Card details
Expedia has provided evidence showing that Mr Es card details were used to make the 
disputed transaction. Of itself, I dont consider this is enough to show he authorised the 
transaction. The person making it only needed the information on the card. They didnt need 
the physical card or the PIN, as this wasnt used. So, anyone with access to the card 
couldve made it.
However, Mr E didnt mention sharing his card details with anyone else. He hasnt told us 
who was with him while he was abroad, if anyone. And he still had his card with him. It wasnt lost or stolen. I considered the possibility that his card was compromised at the hotel 
he was staying at, as its common practice to leave card details with the reception. However, 
Mr E told Metro Bank that he didnt use this card for hotel bookings and his statement 
confirms this. So, he must have used one of his other cards to book his holiday. 
I see he used his Metro Bank card for a purchase in the hotel and in shops and cafes so 
there was an opportunity for a merchant to copy the card details. However, theres no 
evidence from Mr E that he gave his postal and email addresses to any of them.  Based on 
this information, I think its unlikely that a merchant used his card details to make the 
booking. 
Email address
The hotel booking was made in Mr Es name. His correct postal and email addresses were 
provided. This meant that confirmation of the hotel booking wouldve been sent to his email 
address.
I appreciate Mr E said he didnt receive an email from Expedia. But I must ask, why would a 
third party book a hotel in his name and provide his email address? The risk of being caught 
is very high. Also, I cant see how a third party would benefit from a hotel booking, which is 
not in their name and when the booking confirmation will be sent to the cardholders email 
address. They would need the proof of booking when checking in and possibly some form of 
identification. So, using Mr Es name and email address made no sense.
Its also unusual that there werent any other disputed transactions, if this were fraud. Mr E 
has only complained about the hotel booking. Its also odd to use the card for a hotel 
booking, select a refundable option and then not check in. Again, theres no benefit to be 
gained. I think this makes it less likely this was fraud.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr E authorised the disputed 
transaction. Its possible Mr E allowed someone else to use his card, but this isnt what he 
says happened. But even if he did, he is still treated as having authorised the transaction.
It follows, therefore, that Metro Bank is entitled to hold him liable for the payment.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr E, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman