DRN-2906526
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In July 2020 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS.
Mr R experienced several issues with the car. The supplying dealer was unable to resolve 
these so Mr R complained to VWFS. Initially VWFS didnt uphold the complaint but later on it 
agreed that Mr R could reject the car.
Mr R remained unhappy because VWFS told him he was responsible for returning the car to 
the supplying dealer. He wasnt happy to do this because of the unresolved issues with the 
engine. He brought his complaint to this service and said he wanted to end the agreement, 
have his deposit and payments refunded and compensation.
Since referring the complaint to this service, Mr R has returned the car to the supplying 
dealer. The agreement has been settled and Mr Rs deposit has been refunded. 
Our investigator thought that VWFS ought to do more to resolve the complaint by paying Mr 
R compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
VWFS accepted the investigators view but Mr R remained unhappy. He didnt feel that the 
compensation was sufficient and felt that he should have two monthly payments refunded to 
reflect the time he was without the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Theres no dispute here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. VWFS agreed that Mr R 
could reject the car because of the faults hed experienced. The essence of Mr Rs complaint 
is about the time it took for VWFS to agree to a rejection, and about the time and stress Mr R 
has experienced in dealing with the supplying dealer and VWFS. For this reason, I wont be 
looking at whether the car was of satisfactory quality, but will instead focus on  whether 
VWFS handled things fairly and reasonably. 
Mr R experienced issues with the car in August 2020, around a month after getting it. Hes 
explained that the car was returned to the supplying dealer in August, October, November 
and December 2020 and again in February 2021. Mr R says he asked to reject the car after 
the first month of getting it but experienced delays and poor service from the dealership.
I can see that Mr R complained to VWFS in August 2020. VWFS investigated and initially 
told Mr R in November 2020 that he hadnt raised his concerns with the supplying dealer. Mr 
R disputed this and following further investigation, VWFS advised Mr R that the supplying 
dealer had agreed to accept a rejection. The car was returned in March 2021. 
I understand Mr Rs frustration about the length of time it took to resolve things. I cant hold 
VWFS for the delays caused by the supplying dealer. However, I think its fair to say that 
VWFS took longer than it shouldve done to address Mr Rs concerns, and when it initially 
responded, it hadnt obtained accurate information from the supplying dealer. So, I think 
VWFS should accept some responsibility for the delay, which should be recognised in a 
compensation payment to Mr R.
Mr R has said that he wants some of his monthly payments refunded because his car was in 
for repairs for a total of around 2 months. If Mr R had been left without a car at all, then it 
would be fair to ask VWFS to refund equivalent monthly payments. However, in this case, I 
can see that Mr R was kept mobile in a courtesy car throughout, so I dont think its fair to ask 
VWFS to refund any monthly payments.  
Putting things right
VWFS has already accepted rejection and refunded the deposit. To put things right, VWFS 
should pay compensation of £200 to Mr R for the trouble and upset caused to Mr R.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must pay compensation of £200 to Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman