DRN-3330173
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit of UK LLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was given two loans by AvantCredit in 2014 and 2016.
Loan 1 in August 2014 was for £1,600 repayable in 24 monthly instalments of about £122. 
The total amount payable, including interest was just over £2,942. 
Loan 2 in January 2016 was for £8,000 repayable in 60 monthly instalments of about £288. 
The total amount payable, including interest was just over £17,284. 
The adjudicator noted in his view that the first loan appears to have been given more than 
six years before Mr M complained. But he hadnt seen anything to suggest that the 
consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had reason to complain more 
than three years before he did complain. So he thought this Service could investigate the 
complaint. AvantCredit has not raised an objection to this Service investigating Mr Ms 
complaint about this first loan.
The adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought that he hadnt seen enough 
information to say that AvantCredit had been wrong to provide Mr M with the first loan. But 
he thought AvantCredit ought not to have provided the second loan. AvantCredit said it 
accepted the adjudicators view about the first loan, but it didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment of the second loan. As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to 
me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision each time? 
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check each time. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so AvantCredit 
had to think about whether repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr M. 
AvantCredit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able repay his loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that AvantCredit 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr M.
Loan 1
AvantCredit asked Mr M for information about his income and it acquired a credit report. 
From the summary information provided, it seems there was some adverse information on 
Mr Ms credit report including two defaults. But given the type of lending, I think a lender 
would reasonably expect to see some adverse information and I think Avant Credit would 
reasonably have considered the defaults on Mr Ms report to be historic. 
The information AvantCredit gathered indicated that Mr M held one loan account, one credit 
card and one current account. He had a total credit balance of £17,712. I think AvantCredits 
checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. Mr M declared a net 
monthly income of around £3,683. Given the information that the lender gathered at the time, 
including what Mr M said about his circumstances and outgoings, I cannot fairly say that I 
think AvantCredit acted irresponsibly when it provided the first loan. So I do not uphold Mr 
Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr M took the second loan a few days after paying off his first loan. AvantCredit acquired a 
credit check and also requested bank statements. From what Ive seen, I think the lenders 
checks were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.Mr M declared a net monthly income of £2,200 on his application and that the purpose of the 
loan was debt consolidation. Avant Credits credit report says that Mr M now had a current 
account, three credit card accounts and seven loan accounts with an overall credit balance 
of over £28,000 and total monthly credit repayments of around £1,014.
AvantCredit says that Mr M would have been able to clear six credit accounts and that by 
consolidating part of his debt, he would have reduced his monthly credit commitment to a 
manageable level leaving a substantial amount of disposable income after all credit 
commitments.
Ive thought carefully about this. From what Ive seen, Mr M did use at least some of his loan 
from AvantCredit to partially consolidate his debts. But the lender was aware from its checks 
that Mr M had over £28,000 of debt. I accept that borrowing £8,000 would have enabled Mr 
M to partially consolidate this debt but he still had to repay the remaining amount 
outstanding, as well as over £17,000 to AvantCredit if its loan ran to term. 
AvantCredit calculated that the second loan was affordable for Mr M. However, I think 
AvantCredit focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr M on a 
pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to establish 
whether the borrower could sustainably meet the loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
From what Ive seen, AvantCredit was aware from the information it had gathered that Mr M 
had been struggling financially for some time and that his total debt balance had increased 
by over £6,000 in the previous 12 months  during a period when he was still repaying the 
first loan to AvantCredit. The lender would also have been aware from Mr Ms bank 
statements that he also had a substantial overdraft.
On balance, given the information gathered, I think AvantCredit ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr Ms financial position was already showing signs of strain and that a loan of 
this scale was likely to tip him over into an unsustainable position whereby he would most 
likely struggle to meet his loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term. Ive 
considered what AvantCredit says about is estimation of how much its loan could have 
reduced Mr Ms monthly commitment to his creditors. Ive compared AvantCredits 
calculation to the actual amounts that Mr M was repaying to his creditors, as shown on his 
bank statements. I think AvantCredit ought reasonably to have realised that even with the 
partial debt consolidation, Mr M was at significant risk of continuing to experience financial 
difficulty. He was applying for an expensive loan from AvantCredit, repayable over an 
extended five-year period. Given the level of Mr Ms total remaining credit exposure, I think 
the lender ought reasonably to have realised that Mr M was most likely borrowing again to 
keep up with his financial commitments and even with partial debt consolidation, he would 
most likely struggle to meet his loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term 
without borrowing further. And from what Ive seen, Mr M did experience some difficulties 
repaying his second loan with late payments, missed payments, and returned payments 
shown on AvantCredits records. Taking everything into account, I think in these particular circumstances, AvantCredit should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to 
provide the second loan to Mr M.
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit took advantage of his vulnerability. I am sorry if Mr M 
has struggled financially or otherwise, but I havent seen anything to suggest that the lender 
was made aware that he might be a vulnerable customer at the time. Overall, I havent seen 
anything which makes me think that AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr 
M in some other way. 
In summary, I cannot fairly say that AvantCredit acted irresponsibly when it gave Mr M the 
first loan, so I am not upholding his complaint about that loan. 
But on balance, I dont think AvantCredit ought to have provided the second loan. So I am 
upholding his complaint about the second loan and directing AvantCredit to put things right.
Putting things right
With regards to the second loan, I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the 
principal amount that he borrowed, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he 
has paid interest and charges on this loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges on the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mr M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
second loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint about the second loan and direct 
AvantCredit of UK LLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman