DRN-3855349
The complaint
Mr K and Miss P thought their claim for damage following a leak was unfairly declined by 
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) under their home insurance 
policy. Mr K and Miss P had representation during the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, 
Ill only refer to Mr K and Miss P.
What happened
Mr K and Miss Ps home suffered water damage from a leak somewhere between the 
ensuite bathroom and next-door bathroom. They made a claim and Ocaso sent a loss 
adjuster to review the damage and manage the claim. To determine the exact cause of the 
leak, Ocaso appointed a further contractor who was a leak detection specialist.
Based on the report from the leak detection specialist, Ocaso decided to decline the claim. 
The specialist said the water damage was likely caused by defective shower and bath seals, 
which allowed water to escape on to the bathroom floor. Ocaso said your policy covers, 
amongst other things, damage caused by escape of water. For a valid claim to arise, the 
damage must be due to an event insured under the policy e.g., escape of water. However, 
your policy excludes damage caused by the failure of adequate seals and we cannot find 
any evidence to suggest the damage is due to an insured event.
Mr K and Miss P said the leak detection specialist lent so hard on the bath that he caused 
the seal to leak. Mr K and Miss P appointed their own plumber who provided a written 
testimony stating the leak was caused by a defective bath overflow. When presented with 
this testimony the leak detection specialist contested it.
Mr K and Miss P want their claim accepted and want compensation for the inconvenience of 
not having their bathroom operational for such a long time, as well as their costs reimbursed 
which they paid for their assessor.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the expert report from the 
leak detection specialist was most persuasive in confirming the leak was caused from 
defective shower and bath seals. As the damage was caused gradually, he thought Ocaso 
had been fair to decline the claim as this kind of damage was excluded from the policy. Mr K 
and Miss P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ocaso accepted there was a leak. However, it declined the claim. It said the damage to the 
property was caused gradually by wear and tear to the bath and shower seals. I have 
checked the policy. In the general exclusions section of the policy, it states your policy will 
not provide cover or benefits under the following circumstances: 13. Wear and Tear - Loss or 
damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens gradually.
As wear and tear is excluded from the policy, Im likely to say Ocaso has been fair to decline 
the claim if it has sufficiently proven this was the main cause of damage. Ocaso also didnt 
think Mr K and Miss P had provided evidence their loss was caused by an insured peril.
Ive considered the report produced from the appointed leak detection specialist. The 
process he went through appears thorough and the report itself is comprehensive. The 
report commentary seems consistent with the photographic evidence provided. The 
specialist concluded the damage was caused due to issues with the shower and bath seals.
Ive considered what Mr K and Miss P said that the damage to the seals was caused by the 
specialist leaning heavily on the bath. I cant see evidence that Mr K and Miss P raised this 
immediately with the specialist. However, I dont think its likely this caused the damage to 
the seals. I would expect a well fitted bath to be able to withstand a certain amount of force 
being applied. I dont think its likely the force the specialist applied would be any greater 
than that caused by the weight of a full tub of bathwater. Therefore, Im not going to consider 
this point any further.
Mr K and Miss P has provided a written statement from their own plumber. The statement is 
brief and reads further to our engineers inspection we have found that the overflow waste 
fitting has come away from the bath. This has caused the water to run through and damage 
the surrounding area. 
Ocaso asked the leak detection specialist to review the testimony that had been provided by 
the plumber. I think this was a reasonable approach to take. Ocasos appointed leak 
specialist said as part of flood testing of the shower seals, we flood test the shower seals, 
tile grout, bath taps, and bath waste and we found no leaks from the bath overflow whilst 
flood testing. We did however observe previous staining to the bath overflow but during 
testing, there was no sign of any escape of water. A significant volume of water could be 
observed escaping under the bath through the defective shower seals around the bath. We 
firmly believe the cause of damage to the property is due to poorly maintained shower seals 
which can clearly be seen in the extensive report provided.
I think Ocaso has fairly considered the information provided by Mr K and Miss Ps plumber. It 
hasnt dismissed the plumbers comments - it has confirmed the presence of some minor 
staining around the overflow. However, Ocaso confirmed it didnt think this was the main 
cause of the damage. I think this is fair. I think the leak detection specialist carried out a 
much wider range of tests and has used the information from these to support its analysis 
and to respond to the plumbers statement.
Mr K and Miss P commented that they hadnt seen a report from the initial contractor who 
assessed their property. They thought this may show a different view of the cause of the 
damage. They thought this maybe why the report hadnt been shared with them. Ive 
considered this. I can see a report wasnt produced by the initial contractor, so I think this is 
probably why Ocaso wasnt able to share it. However, I have been able to view emails which 
sets out the contractors thinking.
The contractor explained that the seal had been leaking but he also thought there was 
additional problems caused by downward movement of the floor. The contractor speculated 
this may have been caused due to how the bungalow was constructed. He said the joists 
were chopped into the outside wall as opposed to sitting on sleeper walls. So, he thinks 
water may have transferred into the property this way and caused rotting. I have noted that 
the contractors view didnt support the testimony provided by Mr K and Miss Ps plumber. 
So, I havent seen reason to re-visit what I concluded on this testimony earlier.
However, I can see a senior technical manager from the loss adjusters also reviewed the contractors theory alongside the report from the leak detection specialist.  He discounted the 
construction method of the bungalow been the cause of the damage as he wouldve 
expected to see deflection of the floor joists. I think this is a reasonable conclusion. But, 
even if the contractors theory with the joists was correct, I dont think the claim wouldve 
been covered as the damage wouldve been caused gradually (so excluded from the policy).
The technical manager explained in detail why he thought the report from the leak detection 
specialist provided the correct conclusion for the cause of the leak. The explanations 
provided are detailed and support the observations that were made by the leak detection 
specialist. Therefore, I find it persuasive. I think the evidence provided by Ocaso and its 
technical team is thorough and has been well reasoned. Therefore, I think it carries more 
weight than the brief testimony from Mr K and Miss Ps plumber. Therefore, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Mr K and Miss P said their policy includes accidental loss, but I havent seen anything in this 
claim that makes me think the damage was caused by a one-off accident. Therefore, I cant 
say Ocaso has been unfair in not looking at the claim from this perspective. I also havent 
seen any evidence of a one-off insured event that Mr K and Miss P could claim for. I have 
noted that Ocaso has offered the opportunity for Mr K and Miss P to pay for their own 
qualified RICS surveyor report. I think this is reasonable. I have no reason to doubt Ocaso 
would re-consider the claim if new evidence was provided to it. However, as I cant see that 
Ocaso has acted unfairly, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman