DRN-2933699
The complaint
Mrs F complains that her claim to Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) on her home 
insurance policy for water damage at her property in 2019 has been unfairly declined in part.
She also complains that the length of time taken to resolve her claim was not acceptable.
What happened
Mrs F made a claim to RSA for water damage on the sitting room ceiling.
RSA assigned a claims handler who visited the property, where it was found that the 
damaged sitting room ceiling contained asbestos. A specialist team were assigned to 
remove the ceiling and this work was completed. They also removed the furniture and soft 
furnishings that had been contaminated. The remainder of the furniture was moved in to 
another room. Mrs F and her family were not able to use the sitting room.
The removal of the sitting room ceiling enabled the source of the leak to be located. The leak 
was found to be from a pipe above the ceiling. On inspection the leak to the pipe had been 
caused by a damaged floor in the en-suite bathroom moving the pipe. The leaking pipe was 
repaired. 
Mrs F called the claims handler to confirm the leak had been repaired and after delays in 
scheduling an appointment a loss adjuster attended.
After this appointment there were a number of contacts by phone and email between Mrs F 
and RSA regarding the claim. Mrs F was informed that due to her having made 3 previous 
claims for water escape, that had been paid, that this claim was being investigated and that 
it may not be paid.
A few days later RSA confirmed to Mrs F that they were declining the whole claim. Mrs F 
contested the decision and the claim was looked at again. 
RSA then made an offer to provide cover for the sitting room reinstatement and contents 
loss. In addition, compensation for both additional costs incurred (£250) and for poor claim 
handling (£200) was paid. The claim to repair the en-suite bathroom was declined.
Mrs F contested the payment for the sitting room contents and RSA made a further payment 
for these contents plus an additional £100 in compensation for the error.
Mrs F also contested that the claim for repair to the en-suite bathroom had been declined 
and said that the insurance policy should cover this.
As Mrs F was not happy with the decision by RSA to decline the claim to repair the en-suite 
she brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. They felt that the damage in the en-suite 
was not covered by her insurance as the evidence provided by RSA showed gradual 
damage and although they agreed that the service given to Mrs F by RSA could have been 
better, that the compensation already paid was fair. 
As Mrs F was unhappy with the investigators view the case has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence in detail. In my response I will address only the outstanding 
objections and not address every point that has been made during the investigation. 
My role in this complaint is to look at all the evidence available and I have considered the 
evidence from both sides to come to a conclusion on what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
There are 2 main points in this complaint, and I shall address them individually below
Partial non-payment of claim
Due to the 3 previous claims for water escape and damage being made by Mrs F at this 
address I find it reasonable, as did Mrs F, that RSA looked at the previous claims to ensure 
that they were not linked and that they were not paying out for work already paid for.
I noticed that there had been confusion about which bathroom was being claimed for. For 
clarity the claim in dispute is for repairs to the en-suite bathroom and not the previous claim 
in 2017 for the family bathroom.  In this response I shall only be looking at the claim for 
repairs to the en-suite bathroom.
RSA declined the claim for the en-suite bathroom as the damage was considered as 
longstanding and not during a one-off incident. 
RSA provided evidence that detailed the condition of the en-suite bathroom, from a report 
produced for a different claim in 2017. This report and the photographs refer to, and show, 
evidence of long-term damage to the en-suite which had happened over time, mainly as a 
result of the shower curtain not being adequately used inside the bath.
The evidence from the experts that viewed the en-suite for this claim also confirmed that the 
damage in the en-suite has been occurring for a long period of time and that water has been 
escaping whilst the shower is in use and not being careful with the shower curtain. 
  
I do accept that Mrs F is not likely to have known that there was a leak from a pipe above the 
sitting room ceiling, but the pictures RSA supplied of the condition of the en-suite in 2018 
showed that the general condition of the en-suite bathroom was in decline and the report 
and pictures from the inspection of the same en-suite in 2019 shows further decline, mould 
growth and that blue tape had been added between the screen and the bath. 
After review of the evidence provided, I am of the same opinion that the damage had been 
gradual over a long period of time and was not caused as a one-off event.
Im satisfied that RSA have proved that the gradual damage exclusion applies, so I accept 
RSA acted reasonably when it declined to pay this part of the claim.
Customer service and claim handlingI can understand why Mrs F would be frustrated by any delays in her claim and attendance 
to the property by a loss adjuster in a timely manner was important at such a stressful time. 
From what I can see RSA offered a number of appointments for a loss adjuster to attend Mrs 
Fs home during the week and offered an alternative weekend appointment when weekdays 
were not suitable. I find it was fair to give choices and do not think that RSA was 
unreasonable. 
RSA accepted that they initially incorrectly declined all the claim.  I agree that this was less 
than satisfactory, and it added time to the claim process, however I m happy that Mrs F has 
been reasonably compensated for this in the compensation payments of £550 in total which 
is made up of £250 for additional costs incurred, £200 for poor claim handling and £100 for 
errors made in calculation of the sitting room contents.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman