DRN-2575347
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited handled his claim 
on his furniture warranty.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S bought a new sofa with a warranty, that was underwritten by 
Acasta. In August 2020 he got up one morning and noticed a piece of leather had come 
away from the sofa and there were scratches on the material. He said the damage hadnt 
been there the night before and didnt know how it had happened. He made a claim on the 
warranty.
Acasta sent out a technician to inspect the damage. Shortly after his visit, it wrote to Mr S to 
tell him that it hadnt accepted his claim as the damage was caused by insects, non-
domestic animals or wild birds, which was excluded under the policy. 
Mr S disputed this, as he said the sofa was kept indoors, so it wasnt possible the damage 
was caused this way. Acasta apologised and said it had declined the claim under the wrong 
exclusion. It said the reason the claim was declined is because the damage hadnt been 
caused by a single incident, but instead had happened over time.
Mr S didnt agree, as he said it had happened overnight. He also said he had received poor 
service from Acasta throughout the claim. He made a complaint.
Acasta issued a final response to his complaint. It confirmed that the claim wasnt covered 
under the policy. However it said this was because it was due to colour loss, which is 
excluded under the policy. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response. He said he had been given three different reasons 
why the claim had been declined and this was poor service. He brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Acasta had acted fairly by declining 
the claim. However she said it had delivered poor service which had caused Mr S undue 
inconvenience. So she thought it should pay him £50 compensation to make up for this.
Mr S didnt agree this was fair. He said he thought it was likely that the damage was caused 
by flee treatment he had put on his dog, so he thought it was caused by a one-off event so 
should be covered. Acasta didnt agree that it should pay Mr S any compensation. 
Because Mr S and Acasta didnt agree with our investigators findings, the complaint has 
come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has complained that Acasta has declined his claim and that it has been unclear about 
the reason why it has done so. 
I have started by considering whether Acasta has acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
the claim. It had previously quoted three different exclusions, at different times in the claim. 
Since the complaint came to us it has clarified that it declined the claim as it didnt believe 
the damage was caused by a single incident. 
Under the exclusions section of the warranty it states the insurance wont cover damage 
caused by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually over a sustained period of 
time. So I agree that if the damage is caused gradually, rather than by a one off incident, it 
would be excluded under the policy.
Mr S says he isnt sure how the damage was caused. However has speculated it may have 
been due to flee treatment used on his dog, that has rubbed off on the sofa. As Acasta has 
said it doesnt think the damage is from a one off incident I have to consider what is most 
likely.
Acasta has provided a report from its technician that includes photos of the damage. I can 
see from the report that there is damage to a number of different areas of the sofa. And that 
the damage varies from looking like staining to areas that appear to have been scratched. 
The report concludes that the damage is likely to have been gradual and caused over time. 
I have considered both explanations. I appreciate that it isnt always possible to know exactly 
how damage to an item of furniture is caused, so I understand why Mr S hasnt been able to 
provide a definitive explanation. However from looking at the photos, and considering the 
technicians comments, I think its more likely that it was caused over a period of time rather 
than due to a one off event. There are numerous marks in different places on the sofa and 
the type of damage appears to vary. So while some of the damage could have been caused 
over the night before Mr S noticed it, I think its likely it built up over time before that.
For this reason, I think Acasta has acted fairly by relying on the above exclusion to decline 
Mr S claim.  
I have also considered Acastas handling of the Mr S claim. It issued three different letters 
that gave different reasons for the decline of the claim. Its technicians report was very clear 
that the reason the claim should be declined is because it wasnt a single incident. So its not 
clear why this wasnt confirmed to Mr S in its first declination letter. The fact three 
explanations were given, would have been confusing for Mr S and it meant that the claim 
wasnt resolved as quickly as it should have been. It also caused him inconvenience as he 
had to contact Acasta a number of times in order to understand why the claim was declined. 
For this reason, I agree with out investigators recommendation that Acasta should pay Mr S 
£50 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr S £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman