DRN-3813499
The complaint
Mr G complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline a claim made 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to AXA include its agents.  
What happened
In March 2022, Mr G logged a claim with AXA for storm damage to his home. AXA arranged 
for a surveyor to inspect the damage. Following an inspection, the claim was accepted, and 
AXA paid Mr G £285.52. Mr G obtained some quotes but felt this wasnt a sufficient amount 
to cover the repairs. He asked AXA carry out the repair. 
AXA agreed to do so and debited the money back from Mr Gs account.  Mr G says there 
wasnt any progress for several months and then his claim was suddenly declined. 
Mr G complained to AXA, both about the decision to decline the claim and the time it took for 
it to do so. It responded to his complaint in September 2022. It said a further inspection 
when assessing what repairs needed to be carried out led it to conclude the damage to Mr 
Gs home hadnt been caused by the storm. Instead, it considered the damage was caused 
by wear and tear which was excluded under the policy. AXA offered £100 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the decision to accept and then later decline the 
claim.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr G referred his complaint to this service. In response, AXA 
offered an increased payment of £385.52 to put things right. Our investigator said AXA was 
entitled to decline the claim based on what shed seen, but the offer to pay £385.52 was fair. 
As Mr G didnt agree, this case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive considered if AXA acted fairly in declining the claim. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr G, but I think it did. I appreciate Mr G says the first report identified the 
damage was caused by storm conditions, so he doesnt feel its fair to rely on the second 
report to decline the claim. Mr G also feels AXA acted inappropriately by not sharing the 
reason for the second visit. 
However, it seems from the file the second report was arranged in response to Mr Gs 
request that AXA carry out the repair. Given the first inspection was only to survey the 
damage, its fair AXA then took steps to understand what the cost of the repair was likely to 
be. Its unfortunate here the second inspection provided the information that caused AXA to 
decline the claim. But I dont think it was inappropriate for AXA to send out the second 
contactor to inspect the damage.
Although brief, I find the report and supporting pictures provided by the second contactor to 
be persuasive. The findings from the contractor state the structure didnt have enough 
support for the roof sheets and provided a number of photographs to show the structure was 
in a poor condition before the storm. 
These draw together a rational and persuasive account of the structure Mr G is claiming for 
as something that has deteriorated over time, and then experienced damaged following 
storm conditions. But it doesnt seem to be the case the storm conditions themselves caused 
the damage the structure, it had already deteriorated to a point where the storm highlighted it 
was in a poor condition. Ive considered the exclusion clause AXA is relying on, and Im 
satisfied it acted fairly in relying on this exclusion in light of the information available. Im not 
going to ask AXA to settle the claim or repair the damage. 
I turn now to AXAs offer of compensation. Mr G has experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result of AXA initially accepting before declining his claim. I can see this 
was very difficult for Mr G.
I dont think as Mr G suggests, the impact was so severe AXA should pay for the overall 
repair cost. Mr G says he should get the full amount AXA would have paid to carry out the 
repair, not the amount with the excess deducted. In general, its not unusual for an insurer to 
deduct the excess from a cash settlement paid to settle an insurance claim. 
But as the £385.52 is being offered purely as a compensation payment, all I need to decide 
is if its a fair amount. Im satisfied the overall amount is fair in the circumstances, 
considering the distress and inconvenience experienced stemming from the change of 
decision on the claim outcome, and the time taken to tell Mr G this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr G £385.52.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman