DRN-3142699
The complaint
Mr P complains, on behalf of B, that Lloyds Bank PLC restricted access to and closed Bs
account. Hes also unhappy that a fraud marker was loaded against him on the National
Fraud Database.
What happened
Mr P brought his complaint to our service on behalf of his business, B.
Between April and August 2020 B received a number of large payments into their account.
Lloyds received reports of fraud from a number of sending banks regarding these payments
 and decided to restrict access to Bs account. After reviewing Bs account activity they
decided to close their account. They also loaded a negative marker, for receiving fraudulent
credits, against Mr Ps name.
Mr P complained to Lloyds about the restriction of Bs account, the subsequent closing and
the loading of the fraud marker against him. He explained that B was working as an
intermediary for cryptocurrency sales  and payments were received into Bs account and
passed on to a further account. B would then receive 1% commission on the sales.
However, Lloyds werent satisfied with the information submitted. And they didnt uphold Bs
complaint. In summary they thought theyd acted fairly in restricting and closing Bs account
and loading the marker.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. I understand that Mr P was
disappointed but they concluded that Lloyds had acted fairly in loading Mr P to the National
Fraud Database, restricting access to and closing Bs accounts.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators conclusion, so the case was referred to me to decide. 
On reviewing Bs case, I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I explained to B 
that our service isnt able to consider all complaints, and unfortunately we dont have the 
power to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly in loading the negative fraud marker against 
Mr P.  I issued my provisional decision to Lloyds and B on the 16 October 2021 and asked 
them both to reply with further comments by the 30 October 2021. 
Lloyds didnt reply, but Mr P  on behalf of B - rejected my decision. In summary he said:
The contract was between Lloyds and B, not Mr P  it was wrong for the banks 
actions to impact on a third party. 
Because of the fraud marker loading his personal bank accounts have been closed 
and hes been denied access to financial institutions.
Lloyds didnt give B any information about the reports they received or an opportunity 
to establish the authenticity of the information. 
As Mr P, on behalf of B, didnt accept my provisional decision Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive not changed the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why below. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Jurisdiction:
Our service isnt able to consider every complaint referred to us. Sometimes a complaint
may fall outside our jurisdiction, which means we dont have the legal power to consider it.
Our jurisdiction is explained in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These form part of the
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs), handbook.
Although Mr P is complaining on behalf of B, the negative marker Mr P wishes to complain
about isnt loaded against B. Its against Mr P. This means B isnt entitled to make a
complaint about the marker.
Ive moved on to consider whether Mr P is an eligible complainant. There are a number of
different rules which apply here, one of which is:
A consumer can only make a complaint to our service if the relationship they have with a
business isnt related to their work or occupation.
Ive considered whether Mr P meets this criteria as a consumer, and I understand this will
disappoint him however Im afraid he doesnt. The negative marker loaded against Mr P was
applied because of fraudulent transactions which were received into Bs business account.
What this means is Mr P wants to complain about something which happened through his
role as a director  and therefore the complaint has come about because of his work.
Mr P must also have a relationship with Lloyds  as explained in DISP 2.7.6, This is normally
a direct relationship between the person bringing the complaint and the bank. And most
complaints about banks are brought by their customers, as a result of something the bank
did or didnt do to them. However, Mr Ps complaint doesnt arise from a direct relationship
between him and Lloyds, he wasnt the banks customer; his company B was.
In summary, Ive concluded that Mr Ps complaint doesnt arise from one of the necessary
relationships between him and Lloyds set out in our rules. It follows that he isnt an eligible
complainant.
Id like to make it clear to Mr P that I havent considered whether or not Lloyds are justified in
loading the marker against Mr Ps name. And Im afraid I wont be commenting on this. I
realise this will disappoint Mr P but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont have the
power to consider the fairness of Lloyds actions in loading the marker to the National Fraud
Database.
Account restriction and closure:
Although Im unable to consider Mr Ps complaint about the personal CIFAS marker loaded
against him, I am able to assess whether Lloyds have acted fairly in restricting and closing
Bs account.
Bs account was blocked on the 31 March 2020 and a 2 month notice to close letter was
issued on the 2 April 2020. Bs account was then closed in August 2020.Although I appreciate that Mr P, on behalf of B, is unhappy that restrictions were placed on
Bs account businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and
to comply with various laws and regulations. B agreed to this term as a customer and its a
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Lloyds were acting in line with their legal and regulatory
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed
Bs account. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it initially blocked Bs account
and didnt allow the business access to their funds.
Ive also considered Lloyds decision to close Bs account by providing 2 months notice on
the 2 April 2020. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr P, however Lloyds are entitled to decide
whod theyd like to contract with  as long as they provide notice which meets their terms
and conditions and dont discriminate against their actual or potential customers. And Im
satisfied they followed their terms and conditions in closing Bs account.
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im not currently thinking of asking Lloyds to do anything
further here.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr P raised some further points which Ive 
considered below. 
The majority of Mr Ps arguments are about the fairness of Lloyds loading a marker against 
his name considering he was a third party  and the contract was between Lloyds and B, not 
Lloyds and himself. I understand this will be frustrating to Mr P, but for the reasons Ive 
outlined above I dont have the power to look into whether Lloyds acted fairly in loading the 
marker against Mr P. It follows, that Im also unable to consider the impacts of the loading on 
Mr P. 
Mr P also argued that Lloyds didnt give B any information about the fraud reports they 
received or an opportunity to establish the genuine nature of the information  Its true that 
when markers are loaded on the National Fraud database theres an expectation that a bank 
makes contact with a consumer to give them the opportunity to explain their account activity. 
However, as Ive already explained Im unable to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly in 
loading the marker against Mr P  and this includes their investigation prior to doing so. 
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds needed to share this information with B when 
making the decision to restrict and close their accounts. And I dont think they did. I say this 
because Lloyds has a legal requirement to protect the security of their accounts  and 
theyre not under any legal obligation to share the reasons for their actions with the account 
holder. 
I understand that this will be very disappointing to Mr P, but I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman