DRN-3321403
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Tesco Underwriting Limited has handled a third-party claim 
against his policy 
What happened
Mr G says he was told by Tesco that a third party had made a claim against his policy for an 
incident which occurred on 25 July 2021. He says he told Tesco he knew nothing about the 
incident. 
Mr G says Tesco told him the time and place the accident was reported to have taken place. 
Mr G says he was in the area at the time. He says he was in a car park when he was 
approached by a man who told him someone had hit his car and asked Mr G if he had seen 
anything. Mr G says he told the man he hadnt. 
Mr G says he thinks the man then made a claim against his insurance policy. Mr G says he 
asked Tesco to get some more information about the claim. Mr G says Tesco received two 
still pictures from the third party. The pictures were taken from CCTV which showed his car 
near the third-party vehicle. Mr G says he doesnt understand why the CCTV wasnt 
disclosed since that would show his car was not involved in the incident. 
Mr G says the third party has claimed for a total write off which he says is impossible since 
he was doing a slow three-point turn at the time while the third-party vehicle was stationary. 
Mr G accepts his vehicle was close to the other car but didnt hit it or cause the damage that 
was claimed. 
Mr G says he asked Tesco to investigate further because he thought the claim was 
fraudulent but Tesco refused to do so. Instead Mr G says it paid the claim of around £6,000. 
Mr G tried to obtain the CCTV footage himself but was unable to. He says he did manage to 
obtain some photographs of the third-party vehicle from an eyewitness at the time of the 
incident. Mr G says he sent the photographs to Tesco. Mr G says they show the third-party 
car had previous damage, and also shows the damage was on the opposite side of the car 
to where Mr G allegedly hit it.
Mr G says the engineer went to inspect the vehicle a week after the incident. Mr G says the 
vehicle was inspected at a scrap yard and the pictures supplied with the engineers report 
had different dates and times on them. In addition Mr G says the damage shown in the 
engineers pictures is not on the photographs taken by the eyewitness. 
Mr G says he showed all the evidence to Tesco. He says Tesco were not interested and told 
him the claim had already been paid and the matter was closed. 
And so Mr G complained to Tesco. Tesco said based on the strong evidence received from 
the third-party insurer it decided to settle the claim. It didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the response received from Tesco and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She said while she could understand Mr Gs 
position she did not think Tesco were unreasonable in settling the claim. She said Tesco had 
acted within the terms of the policy and had acted on the evidence before it. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the outcome of the investigation and so this matter has been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to note my role here isnt to decide if the collision occurred or who was at fault 
but its to decide if Tesco have handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
I know that Mr G has raised a number of issues in respect of Tescos handling of this claim. I 
havent detailed each one, instead I have focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
When Mr G disputed his involvement in the claim Tesco passed on this dispute to the third-
party insurer and asked for evidence. The third-party insurer provided still CCTV images and 
confirmed they had a possible witness. The CCTV images showed the car Mr G was driving 
to be in very close proximity to the other partys car. They also had engineering evidence 
which supported the third-partys claim. 
I can see from the file Mr G disputed his involvement in the incident from the outset, and said 
it was impossible for his car to have caused the damage to the other vehicle. But there 
wasnt any persuasive evidence proving Mr Gs version of events. I know Mr G has since 
sent a number of documents and photographs in support of his claim. However Tesco took 
the view the evidence was not enough to challenge its decision to settle the claim. It decided 
to deal with the claim on a without prejudice basis and settle on best terms to keep costs 
down. Its entitled to do this by the policy terms. So I think it has acted in a reasonable way 
here.
Tesco were provided with still CCTV images in support of the third-party claim. During a 
telephone call with Tesco Mr G asked it to obtain a copy of the footage. The notes from the 
call say Tesco would ask for the CCTV footage but it didnt think it would change the 
position. Tesco did request the CCTV footage but in the meantime considered the claim 
should be settled at an early stage.
Tescos engineer was asked to review the third-party report. The engineer said he had no 
concerns with it and considered the valuation of the car to be fair and reasonable. I think it 
was fair for Tesco to rely on the engineers to help inform its decision. I can see why Mr G 
was so concerned about the claim, especially given the lack of damage to his own car but I 
dont think it was wrong for Tesco to take the action it did
Tesco took a view that in the absence of compelling evidence to prove Mr Ws version of 
events, and the fact that the third party had images it would not be able to defend the claim 
any further. I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably here since they relied on the evidence 
before it in order to come to that conclusion. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr G feels about this. As an insurer Tesco is likely to have 
experience of how a court would view the available evidence. It decided the photographs 
were sufficient evidence for it to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis in the circumstances. And having seen the photographs I dont think Tescos decision here was 
unreasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G but overall I think Tesco has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman