DRN-2944057
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Mr and Mrs C applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because Santander recommended the 
policy but I dont think it was suitable for them. I say this because Mr C was entitled to sick 
pay from his employer, and he and Mrs C had savings they couldve used to cover their 
mortgage repayments. So, I think Mr and Mrs C could have managed without the MPPI for 
long enough not to really need it.
I dont think they would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments, including what its said about Mr and Mrs Cs 
unsecured debt and the amount of the loan that was going to be used for home 
improvements. Santander doesnt consider Mr and Mrs C wouldve had the level of savings 
theyve referred to.
Mr and Mrs C havent been able to provide documentary proof of their savings, but I dont 
think thats unreasonable given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold. 
But Im mindful that their testimony has been consistent throughout the complaint.
Ive also considered the amount of money that wouldve been left over after theyd bought 
their property. Its possible they couldve cleared their unsecured debt and also covered their 
home improvements. On balance I think they wouldve still had access to an amount of 
money in the region of the figure theyve referred to.
When I take account of this amount, in combination with Mr Cs employer sick pay, I remain 
of the view that they couldve managed without the PPI for long enough not to really need it.   
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
Santander can also take off any commission it has already refunded to Mr and Mrs C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs C in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman