DRN-3805918
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society in regard to
a Subject Access Request (SAR) he made and in regard to him being incorrectly assessed
as having answered his security questions incorrectly when speaking to Nationwide
What happened
Mr M telephoned Nationwide and asked to speak about his credit account. The Nationwide
agent that Mr M spoke with asked Mr M some security questions, and although Mr M
answered those questions correctly, the Nationwide agent informed Mr M that hed failed
security and had to attend a Nationwide branch with two forms of ID to unblock his account.
Mr M also submitted a SAR to Nationwide and was told that his request would be fulfilled
within a month. However, Mr Ms SAR wasnt fulfilled within that timescale and Mr M had to
chase the SAR with Nationwide on several occasions. Mr M wasnt happy with the service
hed received from Nationwide in regard to both being told that hed failed security and the
SAR, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms complaint. They acknowledged their agent shouldnt have
deemed Mr M to have failed security, and they apologised to Mr M for this and made a
payment of £75 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset incurred. Nationwide didnt
initially uphold Mr Ms complaint about the SAR, but later recognised that an internal error
had been made which meant that Mr Ms initial SAR request wasnt actioned. Nationwide
apologised to Mr M for this and made a payment to him of a further £75 as compensation for
their not actioning his SAR request as they should have done.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Nationwides responses, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the responses
that Nationwide had already issued to Mr M, including the two compensation payments of
£75, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 October 2022 as follows:
In regard to the matter of Mr M being incorrectly told that hed answered his security
questions incorrectly and had therefore failed security, Nationwide acknowledged in 
their response to Mr Ms complaint dated 28 April 2021 that their agent made an error 
in deeming Mr M to have failed security. And Nationwide have apologised to Mr M 
and made a payment of £75 to him by way of compensation.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. 
However, while I appreciate that Mr M was inconvenienced by being incorrectly 
deemed to have failed security, which resulted in Mr M being asked to visit a branch 
with two forms of ID, I feel the apology and the payment of £75 compensation that 
Nationwide have already issued to Mr M already represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. And I can confirm that the £75 
compensation payment is commensurate with what I would have instructed 
Nationwide to pay to Mr M for their error here, had they not already done so.
Mr M has confirmed to this service that he received Nationwides complaint response 
dated 28 April 2021 which upheld his complaint about being deemed to have failed 
security, but which didnt uphold his complaint about the SAR. And Mr M has also 
confirmed that he contacted Nationwide to object to the outcome as outlined in that 
letter.
Following Mr Ms objection, Nationwide issued a second complaint response, which 
was sent to Mr M by email on 24 May 2021. This follow up response confirmed that 
Nationwide felt the £75 theyd issued to Mr M in regard to the security question 
aspect of his complaint was reasonable, but also explained that Nationwide had 
identified an internal error which had meant that Mr Ms initial SAR request hadnt 
been actioned correctly. Nationwide therefore confirmed that they were now 
upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint and they apologised to Mr M and made a 
second payment of £75 to him for the inconvenience and upset hed incurred as a 
result of the delay their error had caused.
Mr M has explained he didnt receive the second complaint response issued by 
Nationwide on 24 May 2021, and that as such when he received the additional £75 
compensation he believed that this was further compensation for him being 
incorrectly deemed to have failed security  which Mr M had explained to Nationwide 
in his objection to their initial complaint response that he didnt feel £75 adequately 
compensated him for.
However, Im satisfied from the information provided to this service by Nationwide 
that the second response was emailed to Mr M on 24 May 2021 and I note that it was 
sent by Nationwide to the email address that Mr M has used to correspond with this 
service. As such, while I acknowledge that Mr M may not have seen or received this 
email, that isnt something for which I would hold Nationwide accountable. And this is 
because Im satisfied, as explained, that Nationwide did send it to the correct email 
address.
Accordingly, while I can understand why Mr M may have believed that the two 
payments of £75 that he received were both in regard to his complaint about being 
deemed to have failed security, Im satisfied that this wasnt in fact the case, and that 
the two payments of £75 were made by Nationwide to Mr M in regard to the two 
separate aspects of his complaint.
Im aware that Mr M also doesnt feel that £75 provides fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset that hed incurred in regard to the SAR aspect of his complaint, and 
I note that Mr M has provided a detailed timeline of events surrounding his request 
for information to Nationwide.
It's notable that the timeline that Mr M has provided runs from March 2021 to 
September 2021. However, the second complaint response that Nationwide sent to 
Mr M, which acknowledged that there had been an error in actioning his SAR and which offered compensation for this error, was dated May 2021. As such, it seems 
clear to me that Nationwides payment of £75 compensation to Mr M was solely in 
regard to their error in not correctly acting on Mr Ms initial request for a SAR made in 
March 2021.
But Mr M is also complaining about events that took place after Nationwide issued 
their second complaint response in May 2021, and in particular that while Nationwide 
did correctly record his SAR at the second attempt  under a new reference number 
 that the information resulting from that SAR wasnt made available to him for 
several months and that it was missing information and wasnt in the format that Mr 
M requested.
Nationwide have considered these points at our investigators request but feel that 
their offer of £75 compensation made in May 2021 remains sufficient. But given that 
Im satisfied that Nationwides offer of £75 was solely for their not actioning Mr Ms 
initial SAR request made in March 2021 correctly, I dont feel that Nationwide have 
offered any compensation to Mr M for the later service issues that he encountered. 
Accordingly, Ill be provisionally upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint and 
instructing Nationwide to pay a further £125 to Mr M, which I feel provides fair 
compensation for the further trouble and upset that he incurred.
To summarise then, Im satisfied that the £75 compensation that Nationwide have 
already paid to Mr M for the security question issue already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to that aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Similarly, Im satisfied that the £75 that Nationwide have already paid to Mr M for 
their not correctly actioning his initial SAR request in March 2021 already represents 
a fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
However, I dont feel that Nationwide have fairly compensated Mr M for the ongoing 
issues he encountered with the other aspects of the SAR, and Im provisionally 
instructing Nationwide to pay a further £125 to Mr M in that regard.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Nationwide the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue 
a final decision. Mr M confirmed he was happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
Nationwide did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ms 
favour on the basis described above. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint in Mr Ms favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a further compensation payment of £125 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman