DRN-3536418
The complaint
Mr H complained about Santander UK plc. He found an old passbook from Alliance and 
Leicester Building Society, which had been taken over by Santander. Mr H is unhappy 
because Santander told him the balance was paid out and account closed in March 2000.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H went into a Santander branch. He said hed found an old Alliance and 
Leicester Building Society passbook in his name, when clearing out his fathers house, and 
he wanted to withdraw the funds. The last transaction shown on the book was February 
1996, and the balance at that point was shown as £154.50. 
Santander had taken over Alliance and Leicester 11 years earlier. The branch told Mr H it 
could take up to a month for its back office to try to locate the account.
About a month later, on 19 July 2021, Mr H hadnt heard, so he rang Santander. It wrote to 
him on 29 July. It said it had checked its archives, including records provided by other banks 
and building societies. It said that if Mr Hs account had had a balance, it would have been 
allocated a new Santander account number. It pointed out that it was only required to keep 
records for closed accounts for six years after closure, but it had checked all the information 
it had, and it had no information about the account. It explained that having a passbook, card 
or certificate didnt mean the account was still open with money in it, because these wouldnt 
have been required to close an account.
Mr H wrote back on 16 August, saying that he strongly complained that Santander had taken 
over his account and didnt wish to acknowledge the accounts existence. He said that at no 
point since February 1996 had he taken money out, and the passbook showed no 
withdrawals. He calculated that the balance with interest since 1996 should be at least 
£333.19. Mr H said he demanded Santander return his money with interest. If Santander 
didnt comply or wish to acknowledge it had appropriated his money, hed take it up with his 
MP and other authorities.
Santander replied on 20 August. It said it had carried out a further search, and the account 
had been closed on 15 March 2000. The last entry before closure had been a cash 
withdrawal of the total balance, which was £156.83. Santander confirmed the branch at 
which this withdrawal had been carried out. It pointed out that Santander had taken over 
Alliance and Leicester accounts in 2010, which was ten years after the closure. This was 
why Mr H wouldnt have had any correspondence about the account from Santander.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said hed last used the account to pay in 
a small amount of money in 1996, because there had been the possibility of Alliance and 
Leicester being floated on the stock exchange. He said that the only way he could access 
the account was by using the passbook. There were no entries in the passbook, either 
debits, or cancellation, and he still had the passbook. So Mr H said that showed that the 
account was still open with money in it.
Mr H also said that the branch at which Santander said the account had been closed wasnt 
on his direct route between home and work. Mr H said hed read in the media that it was a 
common problem with Santander. He believed that, based on historic building society 
interest rates, there could be double the amount in the account, after 25 years. He believed 
Santander was being fraudulent.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She explained that although Mr H still had 
the passbook, which didnt show any signs of closure, accounts could be closed without a 
passbook. Passbooks could be lost, damaged or stolen, and in such circumstances the bank 
still has to pay out the money. This means that its always been possible to take the money 
out of an account without handing over the passbook. So finding a passbook doesnt mean 
the account is still open.
The investigator explained that what wed expect a bank to do is carry out a thorough search 
of its records, for any trace of the account. She accepted that Santander had done that, and 
that although Mr H said he believed the closing balance should have been higher, and that 
the branch was out of his way, she thought it was most likely that Mr H had closed the 
account on 15 March 2000.  
Mr H didnt accept this. He said hed wanted a copy of his signature to prove hed withdrawn 
the money. 
The investigator clarified that Santander had never said it had a copy of his signature on a 
withdrawal form in 2000. But as Mr H had requested, she sent him all the information shed 
received, redacted, and not including anything considered commercially sensitive.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He said when hed first approached Santander at a local branch, it had 
said it had no records of the account. When hed phoned in, after a month hed been told 
there was still no record, and all records were only required to be kept for six years. Mr H 
said hed asked for all records of the account, including replacement passbooks, but hadnt 
been sent them. He said that the investigator was guessing the outcome  and Santanders 
records should be on display for the investigator to examine.
Mr H said he questioned the lengths the investigator had gone to, to check whether his 
money had been looked after. He said he intended to take the matter up with the police. He 
said that this service should examine this again  perhaps more closely. 
And he said we should calculate the interest gained between his passbook date, and the 
date of the alleged withdrawal, as interest at the time was considerable. Mr H said there was 
a discrepancy with the interest, which bore out his belief that the amount in the account was 
incorrect, so it was very possibly a fictitious entry. He said he doubted very much if he could 
have withdrawn anything without a passbook or a replacement. And the fact the closure had 
happened in the town alleged, didnt ring true. That branch wouldnt have been his first 
choice, because he was contracting at the time and a day off would have meant lost pay. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about his complaint. He believes that as he has the 
passbook, with no final withdrawal shown, that should prove the money is still available. But 
that isnt necessarily the case.
This services role is to consider individual complaints, and we make decisions on the facts 
and evidence available in each case. Evidence isnt always complete, and I take my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, based on whats more likely than not to have happened. So the fact that Santander doesnt have a withdrawal slip 
which Mr H signed 22 years ago, at an Alliance and Leicester branch before Santander took 
it over, doesnt mean that Mr H automatically wins.
I recognise that Mr Hs passbook shows that in 1996 there was a remaining balance in the 
book, and he doesnt remember ever closing it. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the 
account is still open, because these documents are simply a snapshot of the account at that 
point in time. 
The key point is that banks and building societies didnt deny a customer access to their 
account just because they didnt have their passbook. With identification, theyd allow 
transactions. Often passbooks could be lost, and Mr H told us that he discovered the book 
when, sadly, he was sorting out his fathers home. If the book was at his fathers house, Mr 
H might not have been able to find it to take to an Alliance and Leicester branch in 2000. Its 
possible he told the branch he couldnt find it. I consider the branch would then have been 
willing to pay out the balance with suitable identification but without the passbook. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr H did go to the Alliance and Leicester branch on 15 
March 2000 and closed the account, in line with the Alliance and Leicester records passed to 
Santander. Mr H has said that the branch named wasnt on his way to work, so he thinks the  
records are fictitious. But the branch is in the same broad locality. 
Financial businesses aren't required to keep a record indefinitely. Normally the limit would be 
six years, after which records would be destroyed. Here, the closure transaction in question 
took place 22 years ago. And it took place on an Alliance and Leicester account that was 
closed before Santander took over Alliance and Leicester. 
So its unusual  and helpful  that Santander found the record at all, and understandable 
that it didnt find it immediately Mr H first asked. I dont agree with Mr H that Santanders 
records were likely to be fictitious. It had no obligation to keep records that long, and could 
just have continued to say there were no records, especially because the account had never 
been a Santander account as it was closed before the take-over. Instead, it looked up old 
records to try to help Mr H.
As Ive set out above, Mr Hs response to the investigators view said among other things the 
investigator had been guessing; that we should examine his complaint more closely; and 
that we should calculate the interest between his passbook date in 1996 and the date of the 
closure.   Ive considered all the available evidence, in order to establish what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened. I dont find it would be relevant to calculate interest 
between 1996 and the date of closure in 2000, even if the interest rates were known for Mr 
Hs account type. Thats because there could have been other transactions, including other 
withdrawals, not just the final one. The records for those, which could have been anything 
between 22 and 26 years ago, cant be expected still to be around.
I recognise that Mr H is quite convinced he didnt close the account 22 years ago. But having 
considered all the available evidence, I find that its more likely than not that thats what 
happened. So I dont consider Santander owes Mr H any money for this account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022. 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman