DRN-2574206
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Advent Insurance PCC Ltd declined a claim under her income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs A became absent from work. She was recovering from knee 
replacement surgery. She had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) which 
was first incepted in 2003 and had renewed, year on year, since then. The policy can pay a 
set weekly benefit after Mrs A had been off work for six months (the deferred period). 
Because Mrs A remained in pain after her knee replacement and unable to work at the end 
of the deferred period, she made a claim on the policy towards the end of 2019.
Advent declined the claim on the basis that the condition which lead to Mrs As absence from 
work first presented itself more than 24 months before the date she was incapacitated and 
unable to work.
Mrs A didnt think that was fair. And after Advent maintained its position to decline her claim, 
she complained to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. As she didnt agree, her complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mrs A will be very disappointed with my 
decision  and I can understand why given the circumstances shes described. But for the 
reasons below, I dont think Advent has unfairly declined the claim made under the policy.
Advent has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
After the deferred period has ended, and for up to a period of two years, the policy can pay a 
set weekly benefit if Mrs A was incapacitated. 
Under the policy:
Incapacity is defined as: An injury or illness certified by a doctor which totally 
prevents you from doing any part of your normal occupation, as shown in your 
certificate of insurance, or any similar work for which you are reasonably qualified. 
You must also not be doing any other job for payment or reward.
Illness is defined as: A sickness or disease which first occurs during the period of 
cover and which, within 24 calendar months of the illness first showing itself, results 
in an incapacity covered by this insurance.
The claim form completed by Mrs A also contained a section completed by her GP. 
The GP was asked: Diagnosis of condition (illness or injury) that caused/caused the patient 
to be unfit for work. 
The GP replied: osteoarthritis of both knees. Right total knee replacement 18/2/19.
The GP goes on to say that this is a chronic condition which was first diagnosed in 2013.
Theres nothing to suggest that the knee replacement Mrs A required in February 2019  
which resulted in her absence form work  wasnt connected to the osteoarthritis she was 
diagnosed in 2013.
I understand the points raised by Mrs A about taking other preventative action to avoid 
surgery. And what she says about having paid the policy premiums for many years. 
However, Im satisfied that Advent has fairly and reasonably concluded that the 
sickness/disease which resulted in her knee replacement  and her being off sick - first 
occurred more than 24 months earlier. And so, the reason why she was unable to work 
wasnt due to illness, as defined by the policy.
When making this finding, Ive also taken into account section 6 of the policy which sets out 
the circumstances when the policyholder cant claim. It says Advent:
will not pay a claim for incapacity where the incapacity does not occur within 24 
months of the illness or injury first presenting itself. This limitation will not be applied 
where you were placed on an NHS waiting list for surgery within the 24 month period 
but due to the involuntary wait (meaning the wait was not at your request), your 
incapacity occurs outside the 24 month period.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs A was placed on an NHS waiting list for knee surgery 
within 24 months of first being diagnosed with osteoarthritis in her knees in 2013. From what 
Mrs A has said, she was advised she needed a knee replacement in November 2018. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms As complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman