DRN-3079987
The complaint
Mr M complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont release him from a fixed sum 
loan agreement which paid for a training course.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M paid for a training course using credit provided by Omni. Omni says he 
took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over one year to pay for this training course. The 
course was provided by a different company (the Course Provider).
In June 2019 Mr M said he wanted to cancel the contract. Omni said hed missed the period 
in which he could cancel the contract, so he should continue to use the course and make the 
repayments. So he complained.
Omni dealt with his complaint and feels it hasnt done anything wrong. So Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about Omni, so Mr M remains unhappy. So 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms representative (Mrs M) has said that there are a variety of things wrong here and that 
Mr M should be released from the agreement and refunded in full. Mrs M says in summary 
that Mr M was the victim of hard selling/pressured selling tactics, that his learning difficulties 
havent been treated appropriately and will not be catered for in doing the course and lastly 
that the arrangement between the Course Provider, the Broker and Omni isnt clear enough 
and thus unfair.
Omni has said that Mr M was the person who made the approach to go on the course and 
that the sale of the course and finance was fair as it was discussed thoroughly at the time, 
that Mr M didnt disclose his learning difficulties but the Course Provider can accommodate 
these when Mr M does the course and that the arrangements between the Course Provider, 
Broker and Omni doesnt treat Mr M unfairly.
Omni didnt sell Mr M the course, but it has some responsibilities to Mr M due to certain 
protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mr M entered 
with Omni is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide him 
with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the seller of the course the agent of Omni 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr M entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication. In essence this means Omni can be held responsible 
for the things that were done or said during the sales process by another party (the 
representative Mr M spoke to). Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold Omni liable 
for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made which later turn 
out to be untrue which Mr M relied on to his detriment. I should make clear that such liability 
for breach and misrepresentation doesnt equate to things they could have been done better 
or other issues consumers might complain about outside of those limitations. This is an 
important distinction.
And Omnis liability is also limited with regard to other limitations which are described in the 
Act. Ive considered the relationship of the parties involved here and the transaction itself 
and am satisfied that the appropriate relationship is in place and that the transaction is within 
the financial limits set out under the Act. I now turn to the heads of complaint Mrs M has 
described.
Hard sell/pressured selling
Mrs M has repeatedly argued that Mr M was pushed into agreeing to do the course and 
taking the finance to pay for it. Mrs M makes clear that she believes that had the sale been 
fair Mr M wouldnt have agreed to it and hence it should be unwound.
I dont agree with Mrs Ms position on this. Im not persuaded that there was any material 
misrepresentation made to Mr M which unfairly induced him into entering the contract. Nor 
am I persuaded that there is sufficient evidence here which would make me think that a 
Court would decide there was an unfair relationship here. I say this for the following reasons.
It is clear to me that Mr M made the initial approach to go on the course (February 2019), 
went through a discussion with the representative about it, agreed to the course and finance 
and signed it (March 2019) and then accessed the online course on a number of different 
days completing some elements of the course (across May and June 2019) before asking to 
cancel the course (16 June 2019) as the Course Provider describes for personal reasons. I 
note that Mrs M in her email dated 23 June 2019 says:
He recently asked to withdraw from the course for personal reasons and was sent an email 
saying this isn't possible as the two-week deadline has passed as listed in your terms and 
conditions.
It is only then that Mrs M goes on to say that he was pressured into agreeing to go onto the 
course and to complete the finance agreement. If Mr M had been unfairly pressured into the 
sale Id have expected him to complain at the earliest opportunity about it which would have 
been in March when he entered into the agreement. But he doesnt mention it then. Nor 
does he mention it during the months when he accessed the course or when he tried to 
withdraw from the course for personal reasons. It is only after this is refused does Mr Ms 
representative raise this issue.
Ive also considered the detailed timeline the business has provided of events its comments 
with regard to what happened. And I can see that there were a number of issues discussed 
and that it was Mr M who made the initial approach and who later responded to a voice mail 
he was left suggesting a further call at the beginning of March 2019. I can see there was 
another call a couple of days later when the assessment of the circumstances were carried 
out before agreement was reached. And I can see that after Mr Ms initial approach he later 
called the business about the course after having received a voice message. So on more 
than one occasion it was Mr M who initiated contact with the business.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms representations on this. She repeatedly maintains her belief 
that this was a hard sell/pressured sale. But she doesnt give persuasive explanations about 
how this was actually done during the calls. She doesnt persuasively address the issue of 
when Mr M approaches the business rather than the other way around. Nor does she give persuasive reasons for why Mr M (having been pushed into this agreement as she says) 
then spends a significant amount of time over a significant number of days over a period of 
months accessing the online resources. Nor does Mrs M explain why when Mr M ((having 
been pushed into this agreement as she says) tried to extricate himself from the course 
didnt raise this issue regarding being pressured into it but rather said he wished to leave it 
for personal reasons (which she seems to support in her later email).
Mrs M also points to Mr Ms learning difficulty, which is broadly around writing, spelling and 
reading. And although this may hamper Mr Ms ability to digest documentation it doesnt 
impact his ability to understand conversations or things he is told. It should be remembered 
that this sale was largely conducted over the phone. And considering what happened here 
Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt understand he was entering a binding loan agreement to 
pay for the course when he signed the documentation. And considering that there were a 
number of contacts between Mr M and the business over a period of days I think he had time 
to reflect on this course of action from when he initially contacted the business to when he 
signed the documentation. And it is worth remembering that when he initially made contact 
he explained in writing that he wanted to know more about the course, had related 
qualifications and worked in the sector the course was aimed at. So it seems clear that Mr M 
had considered this course of action and hadnt contacted the course provider on a random 
whim.
Im not persuaded that there is a material misrepresentation here that Omni should be 
responsible for. Nor am I persuaded that there is anything sufficient here around the sale 
process which is sufficient to amount to an unfair relationship. So Im not persuaded by Mrs 
Ms arguments here.
learning difficulties not being treated appropriately
Omni are only responsible under the Act for breaches of contract or misrepresentation. Ive 
considered what has happened here and Im not persuaded Mr M provided any information 
during the sale which would indicate the support which Mrs M suggests Mr M needs to 
complete the course. Nor am I persuaded that Mr M was told anything before or at the time 
of the sale in relation to the support for learning difficulties that could be provided which was 
untrue and which he relied upon to his detriment. And I can see that the Course Provider has 
explained to Mr M and his representative that additional support can be provided. It has also 
asked for any formal guidance available in order to support this which hasnt been fully 
provided to my mind. It has also waived a fee for deferral which would normally be applied. 
So it seems clear to me that Mr M can continue with the course and is to be supported with 
this. And this far surpasses the test that is applied here-whether there is a breach of contract 
or a material misrepresentation. So Im not persuaded Omni has to do anything in this 
regard.
The arrangement between the Course Provider, the Broker and Omni
Mrs M has explained she was unaware of the presence of the Broker that was involved here 
and feels that Mr M wasnt sufficiently informed about this. But Im not persuaded by this. 
Under S75 Omni has liability here for breach and misrepresentation. And under the Act it is 
in essence responsible for the actions of its agents also. So I dont think the parties present 
here make any material difference. Mr M can bring a claim against Omni for what Omni did 
and what the representative said/did and what the Course Provider said/did before and at 
the time of sale. The presence of the broker doesnt make a difference here as it doesnt 
make a difference to either the S75 claim Mr M can bring against Omni (and its agent-the 
Course Provider) nor does it impact Mr Ms avenue of legal challenge directly against either 
party. And bearing in mind Mr M and Mrs M say they were unaware of the presence of the broker at the point of sale and havent pointed to what the broker did wrong Im not 
persuaded this arrangement makes any difference anyway.
Mrs M has also raised the matter recently about some of the real-time sections of the course 
are during working hours. This wasnt raised whilst Mr M was accessing the course or when 
he asked to get out of the course for personal reasons. Ive not seen any persuasive 
evidence about this being misrepresented during the sale. So Im not persuaded its a 
reason to uphold this complaint. Nevertheless the Course Provider has explained that such 
real time sections are recorded and are available outside of working hours if Mr M cannot 
attend and that if there are any issues arising there is online support available from the tutors 
which he can access throughout the course. So I dont think Mr M has lost out because of 
this either. And seeing he stopped pursuing the course for personal reasons before hed 
missed a significant number of these sessions Im not persuaded hes actually lost out 
because of this issue.
Mrs M points to a £25 payment Omni and says They admit that they breached the contract 
and gave (Mr M) £25 but he wants the whole money refunded. I am far from persuaded by 
this analysis. It is clear this amount is paid in relation to what I consider to administrative 
issues neither of which have any relevance or impact on whether there was a breach of the 
contract in relation to providing the course or a material misrepresentation about it (which Mr 
M has relied upon to his detriment). And considering it in the round I think Omnis resolution 
to these administrative issues is fair.
Mrs M has raised many issues about what can be provided going forward and asked a 
number of questions about numerous issues. However I can only reiterate what Ive said 
previously. Omnis potential liability is limited here to what is set out in the Act. Which is a 
different test to that of what Mrs M thinks the Course Provider could have done better or 
differently. For this complaint to have been successful Mrs M had to demonstrate that Omni 
had treated Mr M unfairly by deciding there was not a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation on which he relied to his detriment. Im not persuaded that Omni has 
treated Mr M unfairly here.
I have considered all of Mr Ms comments, but I do not think that they are sufficiently 
consistent with the contemporaneous evidence or persuasive enough to override Omnis 
comments and submissions on the matter. Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract 
or that Mr M was materially misrepresented to. Accordingly I do not see any persuasive 
reason to uphold this complaint against Omni. And thus it is unsuccessful.
I appreciate this isnt a decision Mr M or indeed Mrs M wishes to hear. However all things 
considered Im not persuaded that Omni did anything sufficiently wrong here to uphold this 
complaint against it. And he still has the opportunity to pursue the course and gain the 
benefits of it if he so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman