DRN-4430126
The complaint
Miss S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  (Tesco), trading as Tesco Bank,  
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss S entered into an agreement with Tesco to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. She was given an opening credit limit of £250. There then 
followed a series of six credit limit increases: in April 2020 to £500, in June 2020 to £800, in 
August 2020 to £1,100, in October 2020 to £1,400, in December 2020 to £1,700 and finally 
in April 2021 to £2,000.
Miss S says Tesco didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it granted her the 
account. She says she was already struggling financially at the time.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Miss Ss financial circumstances before granting her the credit card account and each 
of the credit limit increases. 
In my provisional decision, dated 10 October 2023, I explained why I was intending to uphold 
tis complaint only in part. I set out an extract below:
Account opening
Before granting the account, Tesco looked into Miss Ss financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about her personal circumstances and the information provided 
within her application. This included her monthly net income which was found to be around 
£900, based on her gross annual income of £12,500. Miss S also said she was a private 
tenant and gave details of her occupation. Tescos checks also showed Miss Ss existing 
loan balances and sums owed on other credit accounts. The checks found that Miss S was 
generally managing her other credit accounts well. Miss S had also had at least four credit 
defaults in her credit history, dating back to 2018, and a county court judgment that had 
been registered in around 2014. Tesco assessed Miss Ss monthly outgoings based on this 
information and established that she had enough disposable income to be able to make 
repayments on the card. I note that for the type of card Miss S had applied for, Tesco says it 
wasnt unusual for a new customer to have recent issues arising in their credit history.
Its possible that Tesco failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss S with credit. 
But even if that were the case  and I cant say that it was - I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Tesco to think the credit was unaffordable. I say this taking into account 
the relatively modest opening credit limit of £250. Also, from what I can see two of the 
defaults were added to Miss Ss credit file around two years earlier, totalling around £900. 
So in the context of the wider credit checks Tesco had carried out, including establishing her 
income and existing credit commitments, I dont think these defaults were reason alone not 
to grant the opening credit. 
I think the same can also be said of the first credit limit increase, to £500, which was granted 
three months later. By this point Miss S had made four payments towards her card, with 
each payment being above the minimum. So I think on this basis the increase would still 
appear to be affordable based on the opening checks. 
I therefore dont currently consider that Tesco acted unfairly in its decision to grant Miss S 
the account with a £250 credit limit and then go on to increase her credit limit to £500. 
Further credit limit increases
The next credit limit increase took place around two months later, in June 2020, increasing 
Miss Ss credit limit to £800. This was now more than three times the opening credit limit. I 
think at this stage, some six months after granting Miss S the account, it would have been 
proportionate for Tesco to find out how, if at all, Miss Ss financial circumstances may have 
changed and to gain an indication of her overall financial situation and ability to meet the 
higher level of card repayments. One way to do this would be to obtain Miss Ss bank 
statements. Ive reviewed copies of these covering the period of six months leading up to 
this new increase. 
Our investigator, having reviewed Miss Ss bank statements, noted that she was 
consistently relying on her overdraft, regularly going several hundred pounds over her 
arranged overdraft limit of £100. Also, throughout the time she was being granted her 
credit limit increases, although there was some fluctuation in her level of monthly income, 
it didnt increase significantly. 
Ive also seen, from my own review of the bank statements, that Miss S was reliant on 
regular state benefits to top up her overall level of income. Ive noted that these benefit 
payments increased during 2020 so that she was receiving a net income of somewhere 
between £1,200 to £1,500 each month. At the same time her use of her unarranged 
overdraft was continuing. I do not consider that making use of an overdraft facility whilst 
managing credit is automatically an indication that new credit is likely to be unaffordable. 
But I do think Tesco ought to have carried out further checks to get a fuller picture of 
Miss Ss financial circumstances before granting her any further credit. I think there was a 
real risk by this point that Miss S's financial situation was steadily worsening. I also think 
that the level of disposable income Tesco had calculated when it decided to lend to her 
needed to be considered alongside a background of heavy and consistent overdraft use. I 
think this strongly suggests that Miss S was unlikely to be able to sustainably afford to 
take on further borrowing. 
At its request, Tesco was recently provided with copies of the bank statements from our 
file that our investigator and I have relied on. It has not responded with any further 
comment on these within the time limit I gave them. 
It follows that, as things currently stand, I dont think it was sustainable or affordable for 
Tesco to have increased Miss Ss level of credit to £800 in June 2020 and then to go on to 
give her four further credit limit increases. 
It follows that I currently intend to partially uphold this complaint.
Miss S and Tesco both confirmed they had received my provisional decision but had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that neither party has provided me with any additional evidence or information, my 
decision is to partly uphold this complaint on the same basis as my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  what Tesco needs to do
As I dont think Tesco ought to have increased Miss Ss credit limit after April 2020, I dont 
think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement 
from then. But I also think Miss S should pay back the amount shed borrowed on her card. 
Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that from June 2020 onwards, interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £500, (being the credit limit 
in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and 
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Tesco should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file from June 2020 
onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Tesco should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss 
credit file from June 2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I partially uphold this complaint and require Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC to put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman