DRN-2683629
The complaint
Mr C complains about the response from Loans 2 Go Limited when he told it he was in 
financial difficulties and that the interest rate on his loan was excessive.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Loans 2 Go on 26 September 2019. He borrowed £1,000 and was 
due to repay £228.56 monthly for 18 months until 7 March 2021. Mr C made four payments 
on the account.
Mr C says he was asked to pay one month of arrears when he reported financial difficulties 
and that Loans 2 Go continued to contact him by phone even though hed told it his service 
had been restricted. He said the companys emails were going to his spam folder, so he did 
not see its request for a completed income and expenditure form. He says Loans 2 Go then 
asked him to pay the full balance of £3,199.84 on 5 May 2020. Mr C says Loans 2 Go never 
offered to put the account on hold and the interest charged was exorbitant. He adds that he 
took the loan due to gambling issues and his credit file would have shown his overdraft, a 
default, loan arrears and a fully utilised credit card. Mr C says he was not in a position to 
repay the loan, the interest rate was unfair, and the situation caused him to be stressed.
Loans 2 Go says that interest was charged in line with contractual terms and conditions as 
outlined on the loan agreement. It says it responded to his email about financial difficulties 
within six days but that it did not receive a reply or a completed income and expenditure form 
despite further contact attempts. Loans 2 Go offered to try to arrange an acceptable 
payment schedule once it had established Mr Cs current circumstances. On receipt of his 
income and expenditure form it accepted Mr Cs proposal of £50 per month for three months 
from 30 June 2020 with a review planned thereafter. However, it did not receive the agreed 
payments from Mr C.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Loans 2 Go made the interest rate clear to Mr C at the point he took out the loan. She also 
did not find that it acted unfairly when Mr C told it about his financial difficulties.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that he did not receive the income and expenditure 
form and that, although he accepted the information about interest rates was on the 
documentation, the loan period could not be changed thereby bypassing regulations about 
short-term loans. He says that is not in line with a previous decision that this service has 
made about a similar complaint. He adds that Loans 2 Gos request for a full monthly 
payment after hed told it of financial difficulties added to his stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr C. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Checks and Lending Decision
When Mr C applied for his loan from Loans 2 Go, it asked him for information about his 
income and expenditure and carried out a credit check.
The checks showed:
The monthly repayments were less than 6% of Mr Cs income;
Mr Cs credit record did not indicate he was in financial difficulties:
oThere were no defaults in the previous six months;
oThere were eight active accounts, of which seven were up-to-date with 
payments;
oHe had one loan which was being repaid with a repayment plan;
oHis two credit cards were 97% utilised and he was well within his credit limit 
on two mail order accounts;
Based on Mr Cs declared income and expenditure, Im satisfied Loans 2 Go would have 
considered the loan to be affordable. Loans 2 Go was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Mr C and there was nothing in its checks to indicate it should have carried out 
further checks or that the repayments were unaffordable to Mr C.
I acknowledge Mr C says he had gambling issues at the time, but I dont think it was 
proportionate for Loans 2 Go to have asked for this level of detail given the information it 
already had. So I find Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks and 
made a fair lending decision.
Interest charge
With regard to the interest charged on the loan, Im satisfied the terms and conditions were 
made clear in the loan agreement which was electronically signed by Mr C. 
I acknowledge what Mr C says about a credit cap applying when he requested a settlement 
within 12 months, based upon the regulations for high-cost short-term credit. However, as 
the original loan contract was not short-term, these regulations dont apply, regardless of 
when the loan is settled.
Ive also looked at the case Mr C has provided as evidence of a previous decision made by 
this service. Each case is considered individually, based on its own merits, and in any event 
the facts arent the same, as Mr C only had one loan with Loans 2 Go.So, in summary, I cant conclude Loans 2 Go was wrong to charge the interest it did, or that 
the interest should have been capped when a settlement figure was provided.
Customer Service
I can see Loans 2 Go responded within six days when Mr C told it he was in financial 
difficulties. It cancelled his continuous payment authority and asked him to complete an 
income and expenditure form. I acknowledge that Mr C says he didnt receive this, but Ive 
seen evidence that Loans 2 Go sent the email and it now seems it may have gone to Mr Cs 
spam email folder.
Although Loans 2 Go attempted to contact Mr C multiple times after this, I cant see it 
received any response until early May 2020. I acknowledge it made demands for various 
arrears payments during that time, but I cant conclude it was wrong to do so given it had 
received no further information from Mr C.
When Loans 2 Go received a new income and expenditure form for Mr C, it offered him a 
three-month repayment plan at £50 per month, but Mr C did not make the repayments.
In conclusion, I dont find Loans 2 Go did anything wrong with regard to its customer service, 
but I would encourage Mr C to contact it to try to arrange a mutually agreeable repayment 
plan for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman