DRN-2618759
The complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt give him enough for his written-off car 
when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
esure offered Mr G £1,800 for his car, based on the valuations provided in three of the 
national trade guides. It discounted the highest valuation given in a fourth trade guide, as it 
was out of line with the other three. But Mr G thought his car was worth £2,400. He said cars 
of the same model were only produced for three years before a change was made by the 
manufacturer. In Mr Gs view, the model is rare and of increasing value. 
Mr G said esure should have taken note of the far higher prices shown in adverts for similar 
cars. Initially, he gave us links to 28 cars to demonstrate the asking prices hed found. Later 
on, he provided several more examples. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. In her opinion, esures offer was 
reasonable. She said we dont generally give much weight to advertised prices as theyre 
usually inflated. Mr G stressed that the model of his car is rare. But the investigator said the 
trade guides wouldnt have been able to provide valuations if they hadnt been able to find 
enough cars similar to Mr Gs vehicle on which to base their figures.
Mr G then said the actual sales values of the cars hed found were higher than the trade 
guide valuations, assuming a 10% deduction in the advertised prices. He didnt think the 
guides were accurate. And he pointed out that our stated approach was to take adverts into 
account if they strongly suggested the guide prices were wrong.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think the best way for an insurer to establish a cars market value is to look at the 
valuations set out in in the trade guides, as theyre based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. We dont think advertised prices in general are reliable. Thats not only 
because theyre usually inflated, but also due to asking prices often varying enormously. The 
variation in prices can be based on relatively minor differences between what seem to be 
similar cars - or just on the sellers opinion of the value of their car. 
In this case, esure thought it was reasonable to rely on the trade guide valuations. I think the 
fact that all four guides provided valuations is significant. They arent always able to do that  
or sometimes only one guide will provide a valuation. That usually happens if the type of car 
is rare, so there arent enough on which the guides can base an informed calculation. 
Here, three of the guides valuations were within £700 of each other. The fourth guides 
valuation was £800 higher than the highest sum shown in the other three guides. In that 
situation, I think it was reasonable for esure to say it should be disregarded. 
Mr G says doing that, but taking the lowest valuation into account, worked to his detriment. 
The lowest valuation was only £400 below the next lowest one. But ignoring that valuation  
and just taking an average of the closest two  would have resulted in an offer of just over 
£1,900. Thats still well below the sum Mr G thinks is fair, but quite close to the offer he got. I 
think it was reasonable for esure to take the average of three guides in valuing Mr Gs car. 
Ive considered all the adverts Mr G asked us to look at. His car has very high mileage, but 
the majority of the advertised cars dont  or a few have unstated mileage). One of them - 
with around 35,000 fewer miles on the clock than Mr Gs car - is advertised at £2,190, 
although its likely to have sold for less than that. Another, also with 35,000 fewer miles than 
Mr Gs car, is advertised at £1,500. In my opinion, the mileage on only one of the cars on the 
list Mr G provided is comparable to his car. Its asking price is £3,895  a great deal more 
than Mr G thinks his car is worth, even assuming a 10% discount on the advertised price.  
I think these examples show the range and variation between the advertised prices of cars, 
even those with relatively similar mileages. I think all the cars are very likely to have been 
sold for less than their asking prices, but it isnt possible to know what sum any of them 
actually achieved. 
  
I dont think Mr G has been able to show that his car is rare enough for the trade guides not 
to be helpful in assessing its market value. I dont think the adverts show the valuations in 
the guides that esure relied on are wrong, although I understand why Mr G thinks that must 
be the case. I know Mr G will be disappointed with my opinion, but I think esure acted 
reasonably in valuing the car as it did, so I cant uphold his complaint.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman