DRN-2869525
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down part 
of a claim made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs M made a theft claim for some items kept in their garage 
and in an outbuilding. Fairmead partially settled the claim but turned down a 
chainsaw which Mr and Mrs M borrowed from a friend. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy about this and complained to Fairmead. 
Fairmead said it had turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim for the chainsaw because 
they didnt own the item, so it wasnt covered under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and brought their complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they were satisfied Fairmead had applied the policy terms correctly. They 
said that because there wasnt a contractual agreement between the parties 
regarding the borrowing of the chainsaw, Mr and Mrs M werent legally responsible 
for it.
Mr and Mrs M dont agree. They say that they were legally responsible for the 
chainsaw and as such it should be covered under the policy. And they say that if 
theyd known that Fairmead didnt regard them as legally responsible, they wouldve 
acted differently and not stored the chainsaw in the outbuilding overnight. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim has been considered under the contents section of their policy. 
The policy defines contents as Household goods, personal belongings owned by 
you or for which you are legally responsible for. And the policy goes on to define 
You or Your as:
o The policy holder
oAny member of the policyholders family permanently residing at your home
Mr and Mrs Ms argument centres on the latter part of this definition as they say they 
were legally responsible for the chainsaw. They say that Fairmead hasnt defined 
what it means by legally responsible in the policy terms, so they dispute that a 
contract needs to exist for a person to become legally responsible for an item. They 
say that rather, they had a legal responsibility to return the chainsaw in the same 
condition as it was received.
Fairmeads argument is that the policy is worded in order to cover items that arent 
owned by policyholders, but which have a contract in place which states they are 
legally responsible for them  such as mobile phones. And as such it doesnt cover 
for items which are borrowed for use, or being looked after on behalf of someone not 
covered by the policy.
Ive carefully considered the arguments provided by Mr and Mrs M in response to our 
investigator. And I understand they feel particularly strongly about how the definition 
of legal responsibility has been applied here. But in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs M have shown they did have legal 
responsibility for the chainsaw.
I acknowledge the point Mr and Mrs M have made about having a legal responsibility 
to return an item thats been borrowed. But I dont agree this would reasonably be 
seen as a legal responsibility, but instead a moral one, to return it in the same stage 
as it was borrowed in. And on balance, I think its reasonable that in order to fairly 
say there was a legal responsibility, Fairmead would need to see evidence such as 
terms agreed with their friend which showed that the responsibility of the item had 
been passed to them. And as Mr and Mrs M have confirmed they borrowed the 
chainsaw informally, I dont think this shows they were legally responsible for the 
chainsaw in line with the policy terms.
Therefore whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, Ive 
not seen anything to persuade me that they did have legal responsibility for the 
chainsaw. And whilst I accept they say they wouldve acted differently had they 
known the claim wouldnt be covered, I can only consider what actually happened 
here. So as I find that Fairmead have acted reasonably in applying the terms of the 
policy, I wont require it to do anything further.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman