DRN-1751949
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes rejected the car but feels that the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused hasnt been recognised by the business.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr J was supplied with car and entered into a finance agreement with 
VWFS. After around two weeks Mr J experienced repeated problems with the gearbox which 
resulted in the car breaking down. Following unsuccessful attempts at repair, VWFS agreed 
that Mr J could reject the car.
Mr Js finance agreement was cancelled, and his deposit was refunded. He also received a 
refund of his monthly payments and reimbursement of his insurance costs.
Mr J remained unhappy and complained to this service. He feels that VWFS should pay him 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought VWFs had offered a fair resolution 
to Mr Js complaint.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed experienced poor customer service and had been expected 
to pay his monthly payments even though he wasnt able to use the car. He also said hed 
been put at risk because the car was returned to him in a dangerous state.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has already accepted a rejection of the car so I wont be looking at whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality. Instead, Ill focus on whether VWFS has done enough to put 
things right for Mr J.
When a car is rejected, its generally the case that the deposit and all or some of the monthly 
payments are refunded, depending on whether the consumer has been able to use the car. 
If the consumer has been able to use the car then a deduction for usage is normally made. If 
a courtesy car is provided, this is also taken into account when looking at whether a refund 
of monthly payments should be made.
In this case, I can see that Mr Js deposit was refunded. He also received a refund of all his 
monthly payments without any deduction for usage. In addition, he received a 
reimbursement of the costs of his insurance policy which he couldnt make use of whilst his 
car was being examined and repaired. I can also see that Mr J was kept mobile with a 
courtesy car for the time he was without his car.
I appreciate that Mr J was without his car for over 2 months. I understand why he was 
frustrated that the courtesy car he was given wasnt of the same specification as his car and 
why he feels that he should have been provided with a similar model. However, theres no 
contractual obligation on VWFS to provide a courtesy car of any kind, so Im unable to say 
that VWFS should compensate Mr J for this. If VWFS hadnt kept Mr J mobile with a 
courtesy car, I would have considered asking VWFS to reimburse the costs of alternative 
transport or to pay compensation for inconvenience because 2 months is a long time to be 
without a car. But this isnt what happened here because Mr J was kept mobile throughout.
In relation to the refund of insurance premiums, and although this isnt something which Id 
generally expect a business to do, I think VWFS acted fairly here because Mr J was without 
the use of his car for several weeks and wasnt able to derive any benefit from his insurance 
policy.
VWFS hasnt made any deduction for usage. Ive taken this into account when considering 
whether the overall resolution offered by VWFS was fair and reasonable, because Id usually 
expect a deduction for usage in these circumstances. Mr J had use of the car for around 2 
weeks, so VWFS would otherwise have been entitled to deduct whatever mileage Mr J had 
covered during this time at an appropriate rate per mile.
I understand that Mr J feels aggrieved at having had to pay monthly payments for a car 
which he wasnt able to use. But these payments have been refunded without any deduction 
for usage. And although I understand the point Mr J makes about having been put at risk in 
the car because the fault hadnt been repaired, thankfully no accidents or collisions occurred.
Ive taken into account the overall inconvenience this has caused to Mr J including, amongst 
other things, having to return the car to the dealer, making telephone calls to chase things up 
and being provided with incorrect information by the dealership. Whilst I understand Mr Js 
strength of feeling, my view is that VWFS has done enough here. It has gone beyond what I 
would expect it to do by not charging for usage so overall, I think the resolution offered was 
fair and reasonable and I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman