DRN-1680726
The complaint
Miss L complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card. 
What happened
In 2001 Miss L took out a credit card with Capital One and at the same time she took out a 
PPI policy to protect her repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered 
her repayments for periods of time if she lost his job or if she was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness.
When Miss L complained to Capital One that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. Capital 
One also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part of the 
premiums, should be refunded but said no refund for this was due in the circumstances of 
this account.
Miss L wasnt happy with what Capital One had said and offered so brought her complaint to 
this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss L disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint and I shall explain why.
Miss L applied for the credit card over the telephone. She says PPI wasnt mentioned and 
she didnt know he had it until 2019. Miss L says she didnt need the policy as she was 
working.  
Capital One has provided a copy of the signature on the credit card application form to show 
Miss L saw and signed the form. This form would have been sent out to her after the 
telephone call when she applied for the credit card and PPI. She needed to sign and return it 
to take out the credit card and PPI.
The application form that was signed and returned was completed with the information 
Miss L had provided on the telephone before it was sent to her. The PPI should have been 
mentioned on the telephone and Miss L would have indicated if she wanted it or not. Even if 
the full process on the telephone - as set out by Capital One - wasnt followed, Miss L would 
have seen when she received the application form to sign, that the PPI had been selected. 
And she signed the application form to say all the information was true and complete.I think it should have been clear to Miss L that she had a choice whether or not to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out. So it looks like she wanted this type of cover at the 
time.
I note Miss L says no PPI premiums were shown on her statements. But the data provided of 
the statements content indicates premiums were shown, and it would have to have appeared 
to have been added to the balance owing on the account. 
If, when Miss L received her statements, she wasnt sure what the added charge was for 
then I think she would have called to check on this. And she could have cancelled the PPI at 
any time if she didnt want it.
From the information provided it seems Miss L met all the basic criteria to be eligible to take 
out the policy, such as her age and being in employment.
At the time of agreeing to take out the PPI Miss L may not have clearly understood all of the 
restrictions in the terms and conditions that applied to the PPI. And its possible the 
information she had when choosing to take out the policy wasnt as clear as it could have 
been. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest she would have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, Miss L didnt have any unusual employment 
conditions and there is nothing to indicate she had any pre-existing medical conditions. As 
she wasnt caught by any restrictions of the policy, I dont think better information about 
these when the PPI was taken out would have put her off taking out the cover at the time. 
The cost of the policy was reasonable in line with the benefits offered if a claim was made. 
And I have seen nothing to show the cost was not affordable.
Miss L says she had good employment benefits, but the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any work benefits she would have received, so allowing the income from her work 
benefits to pay for other household expenses. Miss L hasnt provided evidence of any 
savings but this policy would have paid Miss Ls credit card payments, allowing use of 
savings, if any, or other support she had for other living expenses if she wasnt able to work. 
So I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit to her if she had needed to claim.
It follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Capital One. However, the rules and guidance put 
in place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit taken out after 
6 April 2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. Miss Ls credit 
card is not caught by these dates therefore these rules do not apply and no excess 
commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by Capital One (Europe) Plc to Miss L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman