DRN-4188449
The complaint
Ms B complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Novaloans lent Ms B three instalment loans, the loan details are as follows;
Loan 
number Start dateLoan amount 
(£) TermRepayment 
(£) End date
1 02/05/2019 250 6 months 79.37 20/05/2019
2 02/06/2019 150 6 months 47.60 12/11/2019
3 28/05/2021 500 6 months 163.79 outstanding
Ms B hasnt managed to repay her last loan. When she complained to Novaloans, it didnt 
uphold her complaint and so she referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Novaloans was wrong to lend any of the 
loans.
Ms B disagreed, she said she struggled to repay a previous loan and Novaloans should 
have known she couldnt afford further borrowing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay the loans without suffering financial detriment, this included Ms B being able to 
repay her loans without borrowing further. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive thought about what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Novaloans has provided evidence to show it asked Ms B about her monthly income and 
expenses including credit commitments before lending any of the loans.
For loan 1, Ms B declared an income of £1,700 and expenses of £735, Novaloans added a 
£200 buffer to Ms Bs declared expenses. Ms B was left with sufficient income to repay this 
loan. The results of Novaloans search into Ms Bs credit file showed she was utilising 
around 67% of her available revolving credit limit and had a default recorded in the last 12 
months. I think given the large disposable income Ms B was left with and small loan 
repayment of £79.37, Novaloans checks were reasonable here. Those checks showed Ms B 
could afford the repayment and although she had adverse information on her credit file, 
I dont think Novaloans should have declined to lend to her on that basis.
Ms B was a similar position to loan 1 when she borrowed loan 2, particularly in relation to her 
credit file, the loan was for a smaller amount than loan one. Ms Bs declared income 
remained the same and she declared her expenses as £660. Novaloans added a buffer of 
£200 and based on these figures Ms B had sufficient income to repay the loan. I cant see 
that Novaloans was wrong to lend loan 2.
Ms B encountered some problems repaying this loan, but she still managed to repay it within 
the term. There was a break of nearly 18 months between Ms B repaying loan 2 and 
borrowing loan 3. This was a significant break in lending that I think the lending relationship 
could reasonably have been reset.
Ms Bs income had slightly increased to £1,753 by the time of loan 3, so had her expenses 
which were around £863. Novaloans added a buffer of £200, again Ms B had sufficient 
income left over to afford the loan repayment.
The credit search showed Ms B was utilising 80% of her revolving credit balance and had 
one other active short-term loan. There was also some adverse information with Ms B 
having a late payment and a default within 12 months. Given that loan 3 could be seen as 
the start of a new lending relationship, the loan repayment compared to Ms Bs income and 
the disposable income available to Ms B, I think Novaloans checks here were also 
reasonable and those checks showed Ms B could afford the loan.
On balance, while there was some adverse information on Ms Bs credit file, her overall 
circumstances compared to the loans made it reasonable for Novaloans to have lent all 
three loans in the way that it did.
I dont think it was wrong to lend Ms B any of the loans and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Ms B, but I hope my decision 
helps her understand why I reached these conclusions. 
As Ms B still has a balance outstanding, Id remind Novaloans of its obligations to treat her 
positively.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman