DRN-1373610
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
The PPI was designed to helped protect Ms S monthly repayments if she couldnt work due 
to disability or unemployment. It also included ancillary life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Ms S didnt agree, the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Ms S signed credit card application form and I believe Lloyds made it 
clear that Ms S was being sold optional PPI. Ms S says she didnt complete the form but Im 
satisfied there was at least a discussion between her and the adviser about PPI. I can 
understand if she doesnt remember that now after all this time.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms S it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it 
doesnt appear she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover despite her entitlement to statutory sick pay. 
The family help she says she could have relied on wasnt guaranteed, unlike the PPI 
benefits. 
I see that Ms S says she already held life and critical illness cover but that protected a 
different risk to that covered by the core elements of the PPI  namely, disability and 
unemployment cover  and paid a lump sum benefit rather than a monthly benefit. And, 
although Ms S has mentioned that she had significant savings and investments, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show she held them when she took out the PPI. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S. But Lloyds 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
If it hasnt already done so, Lloyds has to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Ms S any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms S the difference between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Ms S 8%* simple 
interest if Ms S paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman