DRN-3591498
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In April 2020, one of Mr Ps personal accounts received funds from a business account 
Lloyds says he was a registered director and the sole signatory on. Lloyds subsequently 
received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending the initial payment to 
the business account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
Lloyds reviewed Mr Ps account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ps 
personal account (as well as the business account) and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr P complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. As Mr P remained dissatisfied, Mr P referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using an account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
reached Mr P, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, Lloyds also 
needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was dishonest in receiving any fraudulent 
payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This can include Mr P 
allowing someone else to use an account in order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a 
marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough 
evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show Mr P was involved in fraudulent funds entering an account in his name and 
that his actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find 
that Lloyds did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why 
in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which were transferred on 
to accounts in Mr Ps name in April 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only 
matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr P was complicit in allowing these 
illegitimate funds to be moved on to him. 
Mr P said that he had no knowledge of the fraudulent activity that had taken place on the 
business account, which had only been opened a matter of weeks earlier. He said he didnt 
know about this as he was outside of the United Kingdom (U.K) and was no longer a 
director of the company. Mr P said that the payments made to accounts in his name were 
salary payments and amounts owed by the company. 
Ive thought about what Mr P has said. But Im afraid that, on the face of things, what hes 
said is implausible. I say this because while Mr P has provided a document suggesting he 
was no longer a director of the business at the end of March 2020, records from Companies 
House indicate that Mr P remained a director until May 2020. 
This is supported by the fact that Mr P signed the accounts for the company for the financial 
year ending 2020, purportedly in his capacity as a director, the day before Companies 
Houses records indicate he resigned his directorship. Furthermore, all of the documentation 
at the time of the account application indicate that Mr P was the sole director and he owned 
100% of the shares. Equally, Mr P was also discussing the status of the business account at 
its closure in May 2020.
Mr P also hasnt provided a plausible reason for a business account, in February 2020, if he 
was in the process of stepping back from the company. Equally, Id also question why Mr P 
was still being paid a wage from fraudulent funds, or asked for the funds remaining in the 
business account at the time of closure to be transferred to him (even if this was as he says 
a small amount), if he wasnt in charge of the business and no longer operating the account 
then. 
So Im afraid that the available evidence simply doesnt support what Mr P has said. And, 
while I accept that he may well have been outside of the U.K at the time, Im satisfied that  
Mr P played a part in fraudulent funds eventually being transferred to an account in his 
name. As this is the case, I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant in the 
fraud which took place. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr P was complicit in moving fraudulent funds. As this is the case, I 
dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr P might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman