DRN-3650617
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law is the Consumer Rights Act (2015) it says, amongst other things, that the 
van should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who 
are also the supplier of the van, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances, and it explains that when we think about whether the goods have 
been of satisfactory quality we should also consider whether they have been durable.
Internet research suggests that a fuel pump should last about 100,000 miles and I think the 
evidence suggests this one was failing in at least November 2021 when the breakdown 
services first highlighted a problem and the van had completed a little over 62,000 miles.
That would suggest the fuel pump on this van hasnt been as durable as it should have been 
and in those circumstances I wouldnt think this van had proven to be of satisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation gives the business an opportunity to repair the fault. MotoNovo say 
that they werent consulted about the fault and were therefore deprived of an opportunity to 
investigate the issue or repair the van themselves.
I dont think it would have been likely to have changed matters if Mr W had reported the 
issue to MotoNovo. Its clear from the breakdown service report, and the subsequent garage 
repair, that there was a fault with the fuel pump and that it needed replacing. And I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest there is evidence that the pump failed as a result of anything 
Mr W did wrong. I dont think its likely he would have needed to service the van in his first 
few months of ownership, for instance, so its unlikely to have been due to any missed or 
inadequate services.
I therefore think MotoNovo should refund the cost of the pump replacement and that they 
should refund the cost Mr W incurred to hire a van for the day when his was being repaired.
There were other issues identified with the van when it was repaired in March 2022, but as 
the evidence suggests they occurred after Mr W had been in possession of the van for over 
a year, and its no longer possible to investigate those issues now that the van has been 
repaired, I dont think it would be fair to hold MotoNovo responsible for them. Nor would it be 
reasonable to hold them responsible for the battery problem Mr W experienced in July 2021 
as I think that could fairly be attributed to normal wear and tear.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should refund the cost of the repair to the fuel pump which is itemised as £125.32 
plus VAT on the invoice Mr W has provided. The investigator estimated labour at one hour 
and, given the scope of the work documented on the invoice and the overall labour charge, I 
think one hour at £60 plus VAT is reasonable. The total cost of the repair is therefore 
£185.32 plus VAT. Mr W has been deprived of that money as a successful repair has 
already been completed. So, I think MotoNovo should add interest to that refund.
Mr W has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to call out breakdown 
services and has had to liaise with the garage who carried out the repairs and to arrange 
alternative transport. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay him £125 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W has provided statements showing the cost of van hire whilst his van was off the road 
and I think its fair that MotoNovo reimburse the £60.33 as it was incurred as a consequence 
of the van failing. Theyll need to add 8% interest to that refund as well as Mr W has been 
deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
Refund the £185.32 plus VAT it cost to repair the van. Add 8% simple interest per 
year to that refund from the date of payment (8 April 2022) to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of van hire of £60.33. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment (7 April 2022) to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £125 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to this issue. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman