DRN-3672296
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Limited delayed the payment of his tax-free cash and annuity. 
He says theyve failed to complete an assessment of his financial loss as a result of the 
delay. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such, Ive only 
summarised them below.
Mr P held a pension with ReAssure. Prior to his normal retirement date of 
1 April 2021 he made several attempts to make sure his annuity would be set up and 
hed receive a tax-free cash (TFC) payment from his pension.
In early May 2021 Mr P complained to ReAssure that he hadnt received any 
payments of his annuity or TFC. 
ReAssure responded to Mr Ps complaint in late May 2021. They said there had been 
a delay in sending Mr P his TFC and annuity payment. ReAssure offered Mr P £200 
compensation for the delay. They also said theyd investigate whether Mr P had 
suffered a financial loss. 
Mr P was unhappy with ReAssures response and didnt accept the £200 
compensation. He asked them to send him a breakdown of the fees hed paid them 
during the time theyd administered his pension. He also said he was losing out on 
rental income from a holiday cottage he owned as the TFC was to be used for 
building works on the cottage. 
ReAssure said theyd asked their servicing team to update Mr P with the information 
hed asked for. But Mr P remained unhappy as he still hadnt received any annuity or 
TFC payment from his pension. So, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Mr P says he received his TFC payment of around £22,000 on 17 June 2021. He 
later also received a payment of £2,864.26 on 17 September 2021. But he hadnt 
received any confirmation from ReAssure as to what the payment was for. 
Our investigator gave their assessment of Mr Ps complaint. They didnt think it was fair to 
compensate Mr P for the rental income he says he missed. But they also didnt think 
ReAssure had done enough to compensate Mr P, as hed been without his funds for several 
months. So, our investigator asked ReAssure to pay Mr P 8% interest on the TFC payment 
from Mr Ps normal retirement date to when it was paid in June 2021. She also asked for 8% 
interest be paid on each of the missed annuity payments from the date they were due until 
they were paid in September 2021. Finally, our investigator gave ReAssure 60 days to 
demonstrate the loss calculation they had done and pay the additional compensation. They 
asked ReAssure to pay 8% interest on the compensation payment for any time over 60 days 
it took them to make the payment. 
ReAssure initially didnt agree that they should pay 8% interest on the delayed payments or 
compensation but later agreed to our investigators view. Mr P didnt agree with our 
investigators outcome as he said ReAssure still hadnt carried out a loss assessment.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that ReAssure delayed paying Mr Ps TFC and annuity payments. And 
Im satisfied Mr P had made several attempts to have everything in place to receive payment 
of his pension on his plans normal retirement date  1 April 2021. So, I agree with our 
investigator that this date should be used when considering a fair remedy for the delays Mr P 
suffered. 
Mr P says he intended to use the TFC payment to pay for work to his holiday cottage, in 
particular a heat pump and ventilation system which would have allowed him to rent the 
property out. He says a conservative estimate of his losses was £750 a week of lost income 
from his holiday cottage. 
Our service can consider the impact of an error, including any consequential losses that 
might have followed. But I dont think it would be fair, in the circumstances of this complaint, 
for me to say ReAssure should pay Mr P for his perceived consequential loss. I say that 
because, while I appreciate Mr P is able to evidence subsequent bookings of his cottage that 
have been made, I cant say with any certainty Mr Ps property would have had the works 
completed or would have been rented out during the time he was waiting for his pension. Ive 
seen no evidence Mr P had received reservations which he had to cancel, or any guarantees 
of an income if hed received the TFC payment earlier. 
While Mr P says he had no other money to fund the renovations, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to show that it couldnt have been funded in any other way. I appreciate Mr P says 
he was expecting the money any day, so he didnt consider borrowing funds. But in 
response to his complaint, while ReAssure acknowledged there were delays it didnt provide 
Mr P with any timeframes of when he was likely to receive the TFC. In other words, it didnt 
give him cause to believe the funds were arriving imminently, so as to mean he didnt need 
to think about other ways of funding the renovations in the meantime.  
Ultimately Mr P was deprived of his TFC and his regular annuity payments for several 
months. I cant say exactly what the impact of ReAssures delay was, but I think its fair to 
conclude Mr P lost out on some form of benefit by not having the money sooner. So, I see 
no reason to depart from our usual approach to award 8% simple interest on the funds for 
the time Mr P was deprived of them.
ReAssure sent Mr P a payment of £2,864.26 on 17 September 2021. But I havent seen any 
confirmation from ReAssure what this payment was for. I think its likely this was for the 
missed annuity payments in the preceding months. But I think it would be reasonable for 
ReAssure to supply Mr P with a breakdown of his missed payments and how they arrived at 
a figure of £2,864.26. 
I appreciate this complaint has taken some time to resolve but it wouldnt be fair to say 
ReAssure must now pay an interest payment on the interest award if it isnt settled promptly. 
I say that because an award for the depravation of funds covers the time the consumer was 
without those funds. In this case there was a specific period in which Mr P was deprived of 
those funds. The 8% interest should be added to the TFC payment from when it was due on 
1 April 2021 until 17 June 2021 when it was actually paid. And in the case of the annuity payments the interest should be added to each delayed payment from the date each 
payment was due until the date it was paid on 17 September 2021. The redress Ill direct 
ReAssure to pay will compensate Mr P for the deprivation of these funds for the periods that 
applied. So, while I expect ReAssure to comply with my decision promptly, I wont ask for an 
additional 8% interest payment to be made if it takes longer than 60 days. 
Mr P also asked ReAssure for a breakdown of the fees hes paid them to administer his 
pension since the policy was moved to them. I think thats a reasonable request. And if it 
hasnt done so already, ReAssure should send Mr P the information hes asked for relating 
to the fees. 
Its clear ReAssures delay in making Mr Ps TFC and annuity payment has caused him 
distress and inconvenience. Not least because Mr P had to chase ReAssure for his payment 
and they didnt respond to several of his communications. ReAssure have offered Mr P £200 
but I dont think it goes far enough to compensate Mr P for the inconvenience and distress 
they caused. And the impact of the delay lasted several months as Mr P didnt receive his 
annuity payments until September instead of April. Its reasonable to say Mr P was expecting 
and relying on his pension payments to be made and he was worried when they failed to 
arrive on time. Therefore, I think compensation of £500 better reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, ReAssure should pay Mr P;
8% simple interest on each of the annuity payments that were delayed from the date 
they were due to be paid until the date they were actually paid. 
8% simple interest on the TFC payment from when it was due on 1 April 2021 to 
when it was paid.
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
ReAssure should also, if they havent done so already, send Mr P a breakdown of the 
delayed annuity payments and the calculation they did to repay these in September 2021. 
They should also send Mr P a breakdown of the fees hes paid them to administer his 
pension since the policy was moved to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now direct ReAssure Limited to settle matters 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman