DRN-2196705
The complaint
Ms J (by the way of a representative) has complained that S.D.Taylor (trading as 
Loansathome (LAH)) gave her unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Ms J took 11 home credit loans from LAH between September 2013 and December 2017. A
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH, can be found 
below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 26/09/2013 01/05/2014 32 £300.00
2 06/02/2014 27/11/2014 41 £250.00
3 19/06/2014 05/03/2015 32 £300.00
4 27/11/2014 11/06/2015 41 £375.00
5 11/06/2015 03/03/2016 32 £400.00
6 11/06/2015 31/03/2016 41 £375.00
7 14/04/2016 06/04/2017 45 £500.00
8 14/04/2016 06/10/2016 33 £300.00
9 06/10/2016 20/10/2016 33 £400.00
10 24/11/2016 14/12/2017 45 £1,000.00
11 14/12/2017 outstanding* 45 £1,000.00
*It appears that Ms J has had some difficulties repaying her last loan. The most recent
correspondence from LAH shows there is an outstanding balance.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Js complaint. She thought LAH hadnt made an error 
when the first four loans were granted. But by loan 5, our adjudicator thought that Ms J was 
showing signs she was reliant on LAHs lending, and that the loans appeared unsustainable. 
So, she recommended the complaint about loans 5-11 be upheld.
It appears that Ms J agreed with our adjudicators opinion. LAH agreed that it could have 
done more for loans 10 and 11. But for loans 5-9, LAH disagreed and provided the following 
points for me to consider:
Ms Js weekly repayment rate had remained less than 10% of her income until 
October 2016. Her borrowing in 2015 was less than in 2014, only taking the one loan, 
which was split into 2 agreements in June 2015. These were then fully paid up in 
2016, before Ms J took further lending.
Ms J borrowed just £750 in one loan in 2015 and up until October 2016 just £800 
again in one loan. This suggests she required these loans for a specific purpose, and 
not because the money was needed to support daily living costs or that was reliant 
on them.
These are all factors that are considered before loans are approved. Its of no 
relevance that Ms J had been borrowing for 18 months, as she wasnt borrowing 
month after month within that time. People have relationships with different credit 
providers that last years and years.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided. 
But I wont be setting out all the regulation and guidance that I think LAH needed to adhere 
to in this decision, because there are decisions which are available on our website which 
cover this off. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish
whether Ms J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties, and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Js complaint. 
To begin with, Ms J seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that LAH wasnt wrong to
approve her first four loans. Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement 
about these loans. So, I make no finding on the checks carried out for these loans or 
whether it was fair and reasonable for LAH to have provided them to Ms J. But as they were 
part of the borrowing relationship Ms J had with LAH, Ive taken them into account when 
considering her later loans.
Following our adjudicators opinion, LAH has accepted that it could have done more for 
loans 10 and 11. So, this decision will focus on whether LAH did enough to check that loans 
5-9 were affordable and sustainable for Ms J.
Loans 5 - 9
For loans 5 9, it appears that LAH relied on the information Ms J told it about her income 
and expenditure. Ms J told LAH her weekly income ranged between £425 - £725. Ms J also 
declared her expenditure was between £210 -£280 at the time she applied for these loans, 
and again, this appears to be her expenses on a weekly basis. 
The information provided by LAH suggested Ms Js income was verified for loans 6  9 but 
we have no further information about how this was verified.
LAH has said it completed credit checks when Ms J applied for her loans, but we havent 
received the credit check results. So, Im unable to see what the credit checks would have 
shown LAH.  
When LAH considered Ms Js declared expenses, it compared these with what appears to 
be averages for expenses such as; food, utilities, rent and credit commitments. But company 
averages, while they may play a part, are not necessarily reflective of an individual 
customers circumstances. I say this while mindful of the fact that LAH itself will accept that 
its customer base isnt made up of consumers with average circumstances but those who 
typically  for whatever reasons  may have had difficulty managing previous credit. 
But, in any event, I dont think LAHs checks went far enough when it provided loans 5 and 6, 
which were both taken out on the same day. I think the term of Ms Js loans, the number of 
loans she had taken, and the size of each monthly repayment seemed to be increasing with 
each new loan. This in my view meant that LAH shouldve carried out a full review of Ms Js 
finances. 
I accept that LAH says it verified her income, but even if it did, that wouldnt have been 
enough. LAH needed to gain an accurate understanding of Ms Js full financial position in 
order to see whether she was in a position to take on these loans. 
But in saying all of the above, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall 
pattern of Ms Js lending. Bearing in mind the purpose of this type of credit and the relevant 
rules, guidance, and good industry practice at the time, it seems to me that there may come 
a point at which a lender should reasonably question whether continuing to offer further 
loans to a customer who appears to be persistently reliant upon them was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
So, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing history, to see if there was a
point at which LAH should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If that point were reached, from then on, we may take the view that further borrowing would be unsustainable. Unless there were, for example, a significant 
decrease in amounts applied for, and/or gaps between loans. Having considered everything, 
I think LAH shouldve realised this point had been reached at the time it provided loans 5 
and 6. I say this because:
Ms J had taken five long-term loans in 21 months which on its own may not be 
enough to say there was a problem. But, Ms J was regularly running two loans 
alongside each other, and her overall indebtedness had increased to the largest 
amount she owed so far when she took out loan 6. In my view, this demonstrates she 
was making any headway into reducing her overall indebtedness and was in need of 
further assistance.
Ms Js first loan was for £300, and loans 5 and 6 were for £400 and £375 
respectively (but as these loans were taken the same day Ms J had effectively 
borrowed £775). The monthly repayments were more than double the amount 
compared to what Ms J was originally repaying for her first loan. At this point LAH 
ought to have known that Ms J was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in her income, but to meet an ongoing need.
From loan 5 onwards Ms J was regularly provided with a new loan on the same day 
as settling a new one or within a few weeks, which could suggest that Ms J was 
starting to show signs that she was reliant on this type of lending. 
Ms J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed LAH. Her repayments 
increased to the point where she had repayments for loan 10 which were four times 
what she had initially borrowed for her first loan. And her borrowing relationship went 
on for over four years.
I think that Ms J lost out when LAH provided loans 5 to 9 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Js indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Js
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these higher 
cost loans.
As a result, I think LAH were wrong to approve loan 5 onwards. I think LAH should put things 
right as recommended below.
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, LAH should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results. So, in addition to what LAH 
has already agreed to do it should;
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 5-10,
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J on loans 5-10, 
calculated from the date Ms J originally made the payments, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on loan 
11. LAH should rework loan 11 so that Ms J only has to repay the principal borrowed 
and it should treat any repayments made by Ms J to LAH (and the third party if 
applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.If and when Ms J had repaid enough to repay the principle on loan 11, then any 
overpayment should be refunded to her. To this overpayment 8% simple a year 
interest should be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of 
settlement*. 
LAH is entitled to use any refund from loans 5  10 to offset any balance that may 
remain after LAH carries out the above in relation to loan 11. 
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, LAH
should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Ms J to repay the balance.
But Id remind the lender of its obligation to treat her fairly.
The overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing for loans 5-11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from
Ms Js credit file. LAH does not have to remove loan 11 from Ms Js credit file until it
has been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give
Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Ms Js complaint.
S.D.Taylor should put things right for Ms J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman