DRN-3994291
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax has not refunded him for a holiday he paid
for using his credit card.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr W booked a holiday to St Lucia for him and his wife on 15 March 2020
for fourteen nights. Mr W booked the holiday through a company Ill refer to as V and the
booking consisted of flights and accommodation. The cost of the holiday was £10,476.09.
Mr W says on the first day of the holiday, he noticed the return flight had unfortunately been
changed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Mr W and his wifes holiday was cut
short as they were put on an earlier flight back to the UK after just five days. Mr W says the
return flight was for economy seats, whereas, the original booking he had was for premium
seats. Mr W also says he incurred further costs once he and his wife were back in the UK.
Mr W outlined the additional costs he incurred such as a hotel stay at the airport, a
rescheduled train fare as a result of returning back to the UK sooner than planned (this
transaction came with a non-sterling transaction fee which Mr W is also claiming for) a taxi
from the train station to his house and massages that he and his wife had in St Lucia to
relieve the stress. Mr W also said he received air miles points equivalent to seats in
economy cabin rather than premium cabin for the earlier return flight  so this was another
loss to him.
But since then, Mr W has clarified the amount he is claiming for which is in fact £14,239.76 
Mr W says in March 2022, he booked a return holiday to finish the nine nights he and his
wife missed out on and this was the cost of that holiday so he wants to be reimbursed this
amount.
Mr W says he tried phoning and emailing V about this matter, but they wouldnt respond to
him. So, he raised a Section 75 claim with Halifax in May 2020. Halifax reviewed Mr Ws 
claim and while they didnt think there had been a breach of contract on behalf of V, they did
agree to offer Mr W:
a pro rata refund of £6,734.62 for the nine nights of the holiday Mr W and his wife 
missed out on as a result of having to return earlier than planned.
£212.18 to cover the hotel and rail costs Mr W incurred once he was back in the UK. 
(Halifax said they werent prepared to cover the spa costs at the destination that Mr 
W chose to incur as they didnt deem this to be reasonable or necessary.)
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience due to the time it took to deal with 
Mr Ws claim.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns. He explained The Package Travel and Linked
Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) applied in Mr Ws case and that as the
service was partially provided (as Mr W and his wife were on holiday for five out of the
fourteen nights theyd booked) our Investigator didnt think a full refund was due. However,
the PTRs explained an appropriate reduction for where a package is curtailed was
warranted. And our Investigator said a pro rata refund for the unused days, like what Halifax
had already offered, was a fair way of calculating an appropriate reduction.
Additionally, our Investigator said the express terms of Mr Ws contract with V and the terms
implied by the PTRs meant Mr W wasnt entitled to additional compensation for losses
incurred such as the hotel and travel costs Mr W has set out, nor loss of enjoyment where a
lack of conformity to the contract was due to unavoidable or extraordinary circumstances. So
overall, our Investigator felt Halifax had acted fairly when assessing Mr Ws claim and he felt
Halifaxs offer was fair. So, he didnt recommend Halifax do anything more to put things right.
Mr W didnt agree and requested his case be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
First, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties
involved - no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive ignored it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case, Im looking at whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in the way they
handled Mr Ws request for a refund and additional losses. This will take into account the
circumstances of the problem and how V have acted, as well as the relevant law.
Chargeback
I cant see Halifax considered Mr Ws request for a refund under the chargeback scheme.
While chargeback was available, I dont think it would have been of any additional help to Mr
W given the chargeback rules set out that hed only be able to claim for services he didnt
receive. And I think in this case, that would have been the nine nights of holiday out of the
fourteen Mr W didnt get. So, all in all, I dont think Mr W would have been able to claim for
anything different to what he claimed for under Section 75.
Therefore, the focus of my decision is on Section 75  and whether Halifax should fairly do
more than theyve already offered to.
Section 75
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case, I am required to give consideration to
relevant law. This includes Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services.
In this case, Halifax didnt think there was a breach of contract. They said this was because
Vs terms and conditions include a clause that covers off Vs responsibilities in the event of
changes made to a contract as a result of unavoidable or extraordinary circumstances 
which is what they think happened in Mr Ws case when the original return flight didnt go
ahead due to Covid-19. Halifax say because of this term, there is no Section 75 liability.
However, the holiday was cut short so not all of the services under the package holiday were
provided to Mr W. And V werent able to provide a significant proportion of the travel services
as agreed in the package travel contract. So, I think there was a breach of this term under
the PTRs.As Mr W purchased a package of travel services put together by V, this meant certain terms
were implied in his contract with them by the PTRs. Some of these terms required V to offer
Mr W suitable alternative arrangements of equivalent or higher quality in the event they were
unable to provide a significant proportion of the package. And in the event, they could not do
so, or if Mr W had grounds under the regulations to reject those alternative arrangements, he
was entitled to an appropriate price reduction. While I havent been provided with Vs exact
terms and conditions from the time of the booking, Ive looked at Vs current terms and
archived terms. And having read these, they mirror the provisions set out in the PTRs - V
may be forced by unavoidable or extraordinary circumstances to change or terminate
arrangements after departure. And if this situation does occur, suitable alternative
arrangements will be offered and if the alternative arrangements are of a lower quality than
those originally booked, V may offer a price reduction. Vs terms go on to say that in these
circumstances, theyll be unable to pay compensation or meet any costs or expenses
incurred as a result. V were also required to repatriate Mr W at no cost in such
circumstances, which they did.
It is clear that V were unable to provide a part of the package here  thats not in dispute. So,
I think its fair to suggest V were unable to make a suitable alternative arrangement. Mr W
initially wanted a full refund of the holiday plus other expenses incurred totalling £11,371.39
to be refunded or for V to provide him with a replacement holiday. But since then, Mr W said
he booked a return holiday in March 2022, to finish the nine nights he and his wife missed
out on and that this cost a further £14,239.76. So, in fact, Mr W has asked for this amount to
be reimbursed. Ive thought about this alongside whether the sum offered by Halifax
amounts to a suitable price reduction and if Mr W would be due additional compensation.
An appropriate price reduction in Mr Ws case is likely to be the part of the package he didnt
receive  the nine nights and the difference in cost between the flight he booked and the
flight had had to come home on. I havent seen a breakdown of the cost of each night, so its
difficult for me to determine exactly what Mr W is owed for the nine nights. But I think the pro
rata refund Halifax has calculated seems the fairest way to reimburse Mr W in the absence
of a proper cost breakdown. I say this because Mr W missed out on about 64% of the
holiday and the £6,734.62 offered by Halifax is around 64% of the total cost of the holiday
which was £10,476.09. So, I currently think Halifax should pay Mr W £6,734.62.
I appreciate Mr W wants Halifax to reimburse him the cost of the holiday he bought in March
2022, but I wont be recommending they do this. I say this because holiday prices vary over
time and ultimately, it was Mr Ws choice to rebook the holiday in March 2022. While I
understand Mr W wanted to finish the holiday that was cut short, a price reduction here is
appropriate redress for the part of the original booking Mr W didnt receive as a result of the
holiday being cut short.
In relation to the flights, I havent seen a breakdown in the cost of the flights in Mr Ws
booking confirmation. I looked for a similar flight with the same airline at a similar time for
two adults and compared the price of a premium cabin seat to an economy cabin seat which
showed a difference of around £450 between the two cabins. While I realise the difference in
cost of the two cabins would have been less in 2020 than it is now, in the absence of any
other information, I think its fair Halifax should pay Mr W £450 as I think this is an
appropriate price reduction.
I also think Halifax should pay 8% simple interest on the £6,734.62 and the £450 Im
recommending they pay Mr W. Although Halifax turned down the claim when issuing Mr W
with their final response letter in October 2020, it had taken an unreasonable amount of time
to reach this conclusion. A more reasonable amount of time would have been around a 
month after Mr W raised his claim in May 2020. So, I think interest should be paid from June 
2020, to the date of settlement.I note Mr W initially asked for V to provide a continuation of the holiday, and says another
airline were providing the same holiday to the same resort, but they allowed their customers
to complete their holidays in line with their contracts. I cant comment on another airlines
actions here, but having looked at what is fair and reasonable, I think the appropriate remedy
is what is set out in the PTRs and Vs terms and conditions as Ive explained.
Ive next gone on to consider the additional costs Mr W incurred and other losses Mr W set
out. The position in the PTRs is that V arent liable for any additional losses and they wont
need to pay compensation if the lack of conformity of the contract was as a result of
unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances - this position also seems to be mirrored in Vs
terms and conditions. And I think its fair to suggest that Covid-19 and the impact this had
was unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances in this particular case given V had to cut
the holiday short and get Mr W home before he was potentially stranded. With this in mind, I
dont think Halifax need to pay Mr W any additional costs or compensate for any other losses
he incurred as set out in the PTRs and Vs terms.
Ive also thought about the compensation Halifax have offered for the distress and
inconvenience caused due to the time taken to deal with Mr Ws claim and complaint. Mr W
first raised a claim with Halifax in May 2020. It seems from the email communications that
Halifax werent able to identify the payment for the booking at first, so they werent able to
help Mr W immediately. This understandably caused Mr W frustration. Mr W didnt hear from
Halifax, so he then sent chaser emails to them in June 2020 asking for a response. As
previously mentioned, Halifax then sent their final response letter addressing Mr Ws
concerns in October 2020.
I acknowledge Halifax apologised for not getting back to Mr W sooner and also that they
could have given Mr W better service. Its clear from Mr Ws communications with Halifax
that he wasnt receiving a response from V in relation to his request for a refund, and this
was why he then approached Halifax for help. I think it would have caused further upset to
Mr W when he didnt receive an acknowledgement nor a response sooner from Halifax.
Understandably, Mr W wanted to try and get an answer from Halifax as he was raising
concerns about a holiday booking that cost a lot of money. And I think waiting several
months for Halifaxs response on the matter would have caused frustration. Having thought
about the inconvenience caused and time taken to provide Mr W with a response, I currently
think £250 compensation offered by Halifax is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In summary, I currently think Halifax should refund the following to Mr W:
£6,734.62 for the nine nights of the holiday Mr W and his wife missed out on as a 
result of having to return earlier than planned.
£450 for the difference in flying back in economy rather than premium cabin.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above amounts from June 2020 to the date of 
settlement.*
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused due to the time it took 
Halifax to deal with Mr Ws claim.
* If Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax consider that theyre required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr W how much theyve
taken off. They should also provide Mr W with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax responded and confirmed they agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr W responded and said he wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Mr W provided a 
number of points he wanted to make. In summary, Mr W said he finds it hard to believe that 
a product or service can be paid for, but the provider of that product or service doesnt have 
to adhere to the contract. Mr W reiterated in this case, he didnt get what he paid for.
Mr W also said the cost of completing the contract would have been minimal to V and that he 
didnt think a 64% refund of the original cost of the holiday was adequate. Mr W also made 
reference to advice shared in the media to explain that if a customer doesnt get what they 
paid for from the supplier, the credit card company is jointly liable, implying a customer will 
get back what they paid for. So, Mr W has asked me to rethink my decision from his point of 
view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read Mr W doesnt feel his case has been taken seriously. I want to assure Mr W 
that although I may not comment on every point he made in response to my provisional 
decision, I have read his submissions.
I understand Mr W says the cost V would have incurred as a result of completing the 
contract or offering an alternative wouldnt have been a lot. While I appreciate Mr Ws point, 
the holiday was cut short as a result of Covid-19 so the contract couldnt be completed and I 
think V werent able to provide a suitable alternative, so as explained in my provisional 
decision, a price reduction was appropriate here.
I note Mr W has made reference to The Consumer Rights Act 2015 and says that if a 
customer doesnt get what they paid for, the credit card company is jointly liable, implying a 
customer will get back what they paid for. I understand what Mr W has said, but it depends 
on the circumstances of each case as to what money a customer gets back. Additionally, in 
Mr Ws case, Ive considered the PTRs to be most relevant to the circumstances. I 
appreciate Mr W doesnt feel the redress Ive recommended is fair. But my decision remains 
the same for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In summary, I think Halifax should refund the following to Mr W:
£6,734.62 for the nine nights of the holiday Mr W and his wife missed out on as a 
result of having to return earlier than planned.
£450 for the difference in flying back in economy rather than premium cabin.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above amounts from June 2020 to the date of 
settlement.*
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused due to the time it took 
Halifax to deal with Mr Ws claim.
* If Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr W how much theyve taken off. They should also provide Mr W with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax to carry out the actions 
as set out under the putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman