DRN-3043033
complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr D on behalf of himself and the late Mrs D. In my 
decision, I will mainly refer to the late Mrs D as Mrs D. I mean no disrespect by this.
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs D extended their PPI cover in 2000, 2001 and 2002. They say Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here. 
But I understand Mrs D was not covered by the PPI. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out.  I say this because Ive seen a copy of their mortgage application 
form from 1999 and can see the form had a Yes option for customers to select if they 
wanted PPI and a No option to decline it. On their form, the Yes option has been 
selected. They have gone on to sign a separate PPI application form requesting cover 
for Mr D only. They also completed a separate PPI application form requesting cover for 
Mr D only at each subsequent PPI sale. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr D (as 
the only person covered by the PPI) was eligible for the cover and he had limited means 
to fall back on, so they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this, I dont think 
Mr and Mrs D would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the PPI was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the PPI in any event.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their PPI. Mr and Mrs D 
arranged a further advance on their mortgage in 2006, which is after mortgage lending 
became regulated in October 2004. Although an oversight led to a delay in this, I understand 
that in 2007, the whole mortgage became an FCA regulated mortgage. That means the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ds particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D (on behalf 
of himself and the late Mrs D) to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman