DRN-1401346
 
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs V are unhappy that they paid an early repayment charge (ERC) when they 
redeemed their HSBC UK Bank Plc mortgage. They say they were in financial difficulties, so 
when HSBC turned down their request for a further advance to consolidate their debts, they 
had to remortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr N and Mrs V had a mortgage with HSBC. In 2016 they chose to take a new interest rate 
that was fixed at 2.29% until 31 July 2021. That rate change was carried out on an 
execution-only basis; that is, HSBC didnt give Mr N and Mrs V any advice about the 
suitability of that product to their needs.
In July 2019 Mr N and Mrs V contacted HSBC as they wanted to apply for a £50,000 further 
advance to consolidate their debts. Theyve said they were struggling with their outgoings 
but hadnt missed any payments. HSBC turned the request down.
Mr N and Mrs V then asked about the process theyd need to follow if they wanted to rent out 
their property, saying they might have to move abroad for a few years. That wasnt taken any 
further.
They complained to HSBC about the ERC, saying it was unfair as they were in financial 
difficulties so needed to remortgage. On 9 August 2019 HSBC rejected the complaint and 
gave details of its specialist financial difficulties team for Mr N and Mrs V to contact so they 
could discuss what help HSBC could provide.
Mr N and Mrs Vs solicitor requested a redemption statement on 20 August 2019. The 
mortgage was redeemed on 22 August 2019 and Mr N and Mrs V paid an ERC.
When Mr N and Mrs V referred the complaint to us our investigator asked them if theyd 
spoken to the specialist team at HSBC about their financial difficulties. Mr N and Mrs V said 
theyd only asked to change the interest rate or to consolidate debt, both of which HSBC 
turned down. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the ERC was 
set out in the contract Mr N and Mrs V had entered into, and they hadnt gone through 
HSBCs process to see if there was any help that could be given with their financial 
difficulties. Mr N and Mrs V didnt agree, saying they did ask HSBCs telephone banking 
team for help, but it didnt want to help them. They asked that their complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr N and Mrs V feel HSBC treated them unfairly. But its not my role to tell 
lenders how much money to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks.
HSBC sent Mr N and Mrs V a mortgage offer on 3 May 2016 and this set out the terms of the 
contract they were entering into. Section ten is entitled What happens if you do not want this 
mortgage rate switch any more? and that explained the ERCs were due until 31 July 2021. 
Mr N and Mrs V chose to switch mortgage product in 2016 without the benefit of advice from 
HSBC, and in doing so they took responsibility for making sure they read all the paperwork 
to ensure they understood the features of the product they were selecting. If they didnt do 
so I cant hold HSBC liable for their omission.
HSBC has said Mr N and Mrs V didnt go through its process for customers in financial 
difficulties. Initially Mr N and Mrs V also told us that, saying theyd only asked about a lower 
rate or a consolidation loan, but in response to our investigators view theyve said they did 
ask for help but were turned down.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr N and Mrs V are the ones bringing the 
complaint against HSBC, to uphold the complaint Mr N and Mrs Vs version needs to be 
more likely than HSBCs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say 
Mr N and Mrs Vs version (in that they did ask for financial assistance rather than just a lower 
rate or consolidation loan) is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold this part of their complaint.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr N and Mrs V; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a 
manner that met the regulators requirements at the time. So, Im persuaded Mr N and Mrs V 
knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the 
mortgage before the end of the fixed-rate period.
Having considered everything Im satisfied HSBC did nothing wrong, so for all the reasons 
given I dont consider it appropriate to order HSBC to refund any part of the ERC.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr N and Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman