DRN-3625776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) withdrew the 
overdraft facility on their joint account without notifying Mrs S about this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S (mother and son) held a joint account at Halifax which had an arranged 
overdraft facility.
Halifax sent a letter by email to their online inbox on 16 August 2021 informing Mr and Mrs S 
that the arranged overdraft facility was being removed on 13 September. 
Halifax says the letter was sent electronically as the account had opted-in for paperless 
banking. Mrs S said she never opted in for online banking and has continued to receive all 
letters by post. Mrs S says the joint account holder Mr S had received the letter regarding 
the overdraft facility but didnt open it and so was unable to notify her about the removal of 
the overdraft facility.
Mrs S complained to Halifax about this. Halifax says it notified all parties on the account 
about the expiration of the arranged overdraft limit and didnt uphold her complaint. But it 
accepted its customer service couldve been better and awarded £25 for distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs S was dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint but didnt think Halifax had 
made any errors with the account and they thought that the £25 paid in compensation was a 
fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems a consumer has experienced and see if the business has 
done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs Ss main complaint point is that Halifax removed the overdraft facility without 
notifying both parties to the account. I understand Mr and Mrs S would like to have the 
facility reinstated but ultimately who a bank lends to and what services it provides is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
So with that said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs decision to remove the overdraft facility 
per se, I will be looking at whether Halifax notified Mr and Mrs S about the withdrawal of the 
overdraft facility within the terms and conditions of the account - what I consider the crux of 
the complaint, our rules allow me to do that. 
Halifaxs terms and conditions say that:
If you have a joint account and one of you registers for Online Banking, we may send 
information about that account electronically through Online Banking. If this happens, it 
means we will not have to send information on paper to either of you for the account.
This term allows Halifax to send correspondence by email but does not say that all 
information will be sent this way  just that it may send information this way. Halifax have 
provided a screenshot which shows Mrs S as opted in to receive paperless correspondence.
When Mrs S was added to the account my understanding is  and I think this is where the 
problem arose  that the other account holder (Mr S) and the account were already 
registered for online banking and paperless correspondence. This meant when Mrs S was 
added to the account she was automatically put down for paperless correspondence. If Mrs 
S didnt want to be put down for paperless correspondence, she needed to opt out of this.
So at this point although Mrs S received some correspondence by mail  and I can 
understand Mrs Ss confusion receiving some but not all correspondence by mail - as the 
account was registered for online banking and paperless correspondence Halifax wouldve 
been acting within the terms and conditions of the account by also sending information 
electronically. 
Halifax have given us a copy of the overdraft removal letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs Ss 
online inbox. Although Mrs S wasnt registered for online banking and therefore unable to 
receive this form of correspondence until she registered, as above, Halifaxs terms and 
conditions say it does not have to send information on paper to either of the parties to the 
account.
So this being the case I dont think that Halifax has made an error here or done anything 
wrong as it has acted within the terms and conditions of the account.
However, I understand there has been some confusion in what Halifax advisers had told Mrs 
S regarding letters sent to her during her calls with it and that Halifax has apologised for this 
and paid £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused which I think is a fair and 
reasonable way to settle Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Im not going to ask Halifax to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman