DRN-3720068
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it lent to him. 
What happened
Mr H was advanced two home collected loans between April and July 2021. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 29/04/2021 outstanding 35 £15.00
2 £300.00 26/07/2021 outstanding 35 £15.00
Mr H had some problems repaying loans 1 and 2and as of 22 March 2022, a total 
outstanding balance of £560 remained.  
Following Mr Hs complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint. Mr Hs representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator, following contact with Morses, explained why in her view loan 2 shouldnt 
have been granted because a proportionate check wouldve shown a number of outstanding 
active loans and loan 1 was still being repaid. 
Morses disagreed, with the outcome and so the adjudicator issued a formal assessment of 
the complaint. She once again said that loan 2 should be upheld because it was clear Mr H 
was having money management problems and had several loans outstanding loans with 
other lenders and he was also make a payment to a debt management company. 
Mr Hs representative told the adjudicator that Mr H accepted the proposed outcome. 
Morses didnt accept the adjudicators findings. Ive summarised its response as below:
Morses wasnt aware that Mr H was paying a debt management company. 
There was no requirement for a credit search to be carried out before loan 2 was 
granted. 
The amount of outstanding debt Morses was aware of with other lenders wasnt 
excessive. 
Morses did expect there to be some adverse credit file data on Mr Hs credit file. 
Relevant checks were carried out before loan 2 was advanced. 
Mr H had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford his loan repayments.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Both Mr H and Morses accept that a reasonable decision was taken when loan 1 was 
advanced. This loan is therefore no longer in dispute so I no longer need to make a finding 
on this loan  I say no more about it. 
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made a reasonable decision to advance 
loan 2. 
Loan 2For this loan, Morses asked Mr H to declare his weekly income and his expenditure. He 
declared an income of £360 with outgoings of £251 leaving £109 per week in disposable 
income to afford the repayment of £15. Mr Hs repayment for loan 1 had already been 
factored into his declared expenditure for loan 2. 
Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have believed 
that Mr H would be able to afford the repayments. 
However, in saying that, there were indicators in the information that Morses had that ought 
to have led it to carry out further checks  in order to make sure he was in a position to make 
these repayments. 
A credit search wasnt carried out before this loan was approved, but before loan 1 was 
advanced one was carried out and given these results were available to Morses I consider it 
reasonable that these were considered as part of the assessment before  loan 2 was 
approved, especially as this loan was only approved a few months after loan 1.
Contained within the results Morses knew that Mr H had 14 active credit facilities with owing 
nearly £15,000  he had defaulted on 5 accounts but more than 12 months ago but only one 
had been settled. I think at least, the credit search results indicated that Mr H had historic 
payment problems, but still had a not insignificant amount of debt.  
In addition, when loan 1 was approved, Mr H as part of his application declared he had 
around £118 per week of other credit commitments towards loans, credit cards and other 
home credit loans. For loan 2, this figure, as recorded by Morses, had decreased to £58 per 
week. This doesnt seem plausible given the results of the credit checks. 
So, I dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check for loan 2 and had it done so  
perhaps by reviewing bank statements from around the time this loan was approved, which 
have been provided by Mr Hs representatives. I have reviewed those and show that he was 
making repayments to a debt management company as well as making 10 separate 
repayments to three different third-party debt recovery companies each month. 
It also wouldve discovered that Mr H was already making repayments to two payday loan 
companies as well as high cost revolving credit facility  which was costing him around £500 
per month to manage. He was also making repayments to a number of different catalogue 
shopping accounts. 
Finally, he had to make a payment already to Morses of £15 per week for loan 1. I think 
Morses wouldve likely discovered all of this by carrying out a proportionate check. And 
knowing this I think it wouldve decided that Mr H wasnt in a position to take on any further 
lending due to him being over indebted and showing signs of having problems managing his 
money. 
Im therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loan two, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have advanced loan two. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy it back if Morses is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the 
principal for this loan. If this results in Mr R having made overpayments then Morses 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H. 
C. Morses should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loan two. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman