DRN-3199703
The complaint
This complaint relates to an equity release mortgage application that was made on behalf of 
Mrs M to Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G). The application was made by 
Mr N and Ms L in their capacity to act on behalf of Mrs M under a Lasting Power of Attorney 
and the funds were needed to pay for Mrs Ms care needs.
This complaint has been brought to us by Mr N, and any reference to him in this complaint 
should be taken to mean him acting in his capacity of Mrs Ms Attorney were appropriate.
Mr N has complained about the time it took to undertake the legal work, which led to the first 
mortgage offer expiring and the new offer was on a higher rate of interest.
What happened
An application was made to L&G on DATE through an independent mortgage adviser.
A valuation was undertaken on 17 March and the mortgage offer was issued on 29 March 
with an interest rate of 2.60%. The mortgage offer had an expiry date of 18 May.
The solicitor that had been selected by Mr N and Ms L wasnt able to act in the transaction, 
so a new solicitor was needed. The new solicitor was appointed, and the offer and legal pack 
was emailed and posted to them on 30 March.
There was back and forth between the parties  that is, Mrs Ms solicitor, L&Gs solicitor and 
L&G  and the application wasnt ready to complete by the mortgage offer deadline. As that 
date passed a new mortgage offer needed to be issued but by then the interest rate had 
changed, so the new offer was issued with a higher interest rate of 3.09%.
The revised mortgage offer was issued on 28 May, and the mortgage completed on 25 June.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr N complained to L&G. It didnt uphold the main thrust 
of the complaint, but did accept there was a delay of five working days where Mrs Ms 
solicitor was waiting for a response to a query. For that it offered £100 compensation.
Our investigator looked at things and he felt that offer was fair. He didnt think it was the fault 
of L&G (or its solicitor) that the first mortgage offer expired.
As Mr N didnt agree it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings 
on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats 
broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mrs Ms solicitor was sent the legal pack on 30 March 2021 and that said The Offer expiry 
date is 18/05/21. Please allow a minimum of 5 working days before any proposed 
completion date to allow us sufficient time for checking and requesting funds. Further 
enquiries may be required so we recommend you factor this in.
Enclosed with that pack was the schedule of requirements which listed everything Mrs Ms 
solicitor needed to do and provide. Depending on what that information showed further 
enquiries may have been needed, as was explained in the cover letter that Ive quoted from 
above.
Unfortunately Mrs Ms solicitor didnt return the completed schedule of requirements until the 
afternoon of 13 May, which even if that was complete and no further information was needed 
didnt give a minimum of 5 working days for completion to take place. So that was already 
too late.
In any event, the solicitor had forgotten to return the insurance declaration  which also 
formed part of the original schedule of requirements that had been requested on 30 March  
sending that by email on the day the offer expired (18 May).
All of that information had been requested on 30 March in the legal pack  it wasnt 
requested piecemeal throughout the process as Mr Ns seems to think. Some paperwork 
wasnt signed by Mr N and Ms L until 12 May which was only five working days before the 
offer was due to expire - that was also paperwork that had been included in the original legal 
pack.
There were requests for other information, but that was all due to what had been provided 
leading to other questions needing to be asked, or information to be provided. That is 
entirely normal within a conveyancing process and not something I would hold L&G or its 
solicitor liable for. L&G was being asked to lend money to Mrs M and as part of that its 
solicitor had a responsibility to check there were no issues with the security of that. Apart 
from the one occasion L&G has identified, all the other correspondence was responded to 
with no undue delays.
But as I said, even putting aside the secondary questions and information requests, Mrs Ms 
solicitor didnt provide the basic information that had been listed in the schedule of 
requirements that it was sent on 30 March until 13 May and 18 May, which was always too 
late to complete this mortgage and so a new mortgage offer would always have been 
needed.
L&G has accepted there was one occasion that a response wasnt given within its service 
standard timescales and for that it offered £100 compensation. Having considered 
everything I consider that to be fair and reasonable and so I make no further order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr N to decide if now, on reflection, he and Ms L 
(on behalf of Mrs M) wish to accept the offer of £100 that was made by Legal & General 
Home Finance Limited in its response to the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman