DRN-1429386
 
The complaint
Ms T says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. She says she didnt want or need the policy and she wasnt aware it 
had been added to her account. 
What happened
Ms T bought the policy in July 2005 when she telephoned Capital One to activate her credit 
card. The policy cost 79p per £100 Ms T owed on her credit card and it wouldve paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance on the card each month for up to 12 months if Ms T couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy was cancelled one 
month later in August 2005, and Ms T was charged PPI premiums totalling just over £20.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Capital One says Ms T applied for her credit card and then when she telephoned to activate 
her credit card, a representative from Capital One sold her the policy. It says it was at this 
time that the policy was added to her account  and its provided a copy of its internal screen 
shot that it says records this. So based on everything Ive seen - Im satisfied its more likely 
that the PPI was sold over the telephone.
Capital Ones not been able to give us a recording of the call. I dont think thats unusual 
given how long its been since the PPI was sold. But that means I dont know exactly what 
was said about the PPI on that day in 2005.
So Ive looked at everything I do have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Ive also taken into account what I know about how Capital One sold policies in activation 
calls around the time this policy was sold. And based on what Ive seen I think its likely that 
during the call Ms T wouldve been made aware that the PPI was optional. I also think she 
wouldve been asked to agree to it being added to her credit card account. So taking 
everything in to consideration, I think the policy was optional and Ms T agreed to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms T  this means it didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to give Ms T information in a 
clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take the policy out.Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms T wouldve been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  she told us she was employed and in good health. And based on what I 
know about her circumstances and what shes told us - it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. She did tell us she had some sick pay from her employer  but this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this, and for longer. So I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive thought about everything Ms T has said about  but these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman