DRN-3938471
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the surrender of her Flexible Mortgage Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) by ReAssure Limited. She is unhappy that the process was delayed and the 
final figure she received was lower than the amount the original product provider gave, and 
an estimate provided by ReAssure.
What happened
Mrs Rs ISA was sold in combination with one in her husbands name, each aimed to accrue 
a value equal to half the amount of the joint mortgage the accounts were set up to repay. 
Attached to each of the ISAs were protection benefits, which would ensure the mortgage 
would be repaid if either of the accountholders were to die during the term. The ISA was 
taken out with life assurance company L. It was transferred to ReAssure in September 2020.
In the autumn of 2020 Mr and Mrs R decided to encash their ISAs and contacted ReAssure 
to do so. Mrs Rs payment release form was received by ReAssure on 30 October 2020.
On 9 November 2020 Mrs R had a conversation with ReAssure, chasing the surrender 
value. ReAssure explained why the surrender hadnt been processed yet. In this 
conversation there was mention of a sum of around £42,000, but it related to Mr Rs 
surrender value, rather than being an estimate of the value of Mrs Rs ISA.
On 11 November ReAssure paid the surrender value out. The amount paid was just over 
£40,000.
Following the surrender, L sent Mrs R a statement confirming the details of the sale of units 
the ISA held in its funds on 13 November 2020. This detailed the number of units that had 
been sold and the unit price, which totalled just over £45,000. 
Mrs R complained to ReAssure that it had paid her around £5,000 less than it should have. 
ReAssure confirmed that she had been paid the right amount. 
Mrs R contacted this service on 15 October 2021 asking us to look into both aspects of her 
complaint. 
ReAssure explained that the amount it had paid Mrs R was the value of the ISA on the date 
that it had received her instruction to surrender it. It was the surrender value on that date that 
Mrs R was entitled to. However, L had mistakenly not surrendered the ISA until a date two 
weeks later, by which time the value of the units had increased. However, Mrs R was not 
entitled to the value of the ISA on that date. As such, Mrs R had received the amount she 
was entitled to.
Our investigator checked with L what the value of the investment was on 30 October 2020 
and it confirmed a sum of just over £40,000.
Our investigator looked into our jurisdiction for the different aspects of the complaint. She 
concluded that we couldnt consider the complaint about the delays in processing the 
surrender as the complaint hadnt been referred to us within six months of the final response 
letter. However, she was satisfied that we could consider the complaint about the amount of 
the surrender value. Ultimately, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint about the 
amount that had been paid to Mrs R. She was satisfied that ReAssure had paid her the 
amount she was entitled to. Mrs R didnt accept this and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a decision regarding our jurisdiction on 16 March 2023. I concluded that only 
Mrs Rs complaint about the amount of the surrender value fell within our jurisdiction. As 
such, this decision relates only to the merits of that part of the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder asks for their policy to be surrendered, the life assurance company will 
have a procedure in place to complete the administration of the surrender. This will include a 
standard for when a surrender will be actioned. ReAssure has confirmed that its procedure is 
that a policy will be surrendered as at the date it receives the surrender form. This is not 
unusual for such arrangements, and I cant find it was unreasonable or unfair. 
As such, Mrs R was entitled to the surrender value of her ISA on 30 October 2020, when the 
form was received. Based on the information I have available to me; Mrs R received the 
surrender value she was entitled to.
I can understand that Mrs R would prefer the surrender value from the later date that L 
actually surrendered the unit holding, because it had gone up. However, I doubt she would 
feel the same had the value dropped. I also note that by the point L actually encashed the 
units, ReAssure had already made the payment to Mrs R.
While I know that Mrs R wont be happy with the outcome I have reached, I cant find that 
ReAssure did anything wrong in relation to the amount it paid Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman