DRN-3244871
The complaint
Mr G complains that Prudential Pensions Limited failed to process his request to disinvest 
some pension investments, and enter drawdown, in a timely manner. As a result he says his 
pension savings suffered from a reduction in their value.  
What happened
Mr G has been assisted in making his complaint by his financial advisor. But for ease, as in 
my provisional decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mr G himself.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Prudential needed to do 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said; 
Mr G holds pension savings with Prudential. All those savings were invested into a 
single Prudential managed fund. In March 2020, after discussions with his financial 
advisor, Mr G decided to move his pension savings into drawdown and take a 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash). 
The instruction to sell the relevant assets, and for the payment of the PCLS, was 
placed electronically by Mr Gs financial advisor on 12 March.
Prudential says it was unable to process that instruction automatically since a 
product charge was due to be taken from the pension savings on the same day. So it 
says that it placed the instruction for manual processing. On 17 March, when seeing 
the transaction hadnt yet been completed, Mr Gs financial advisor contacted 
Prudential. He says he was told that the expectation was that processing would be 
completed by the following day. But later that day, due to falls in market valuations, 
the fund into which Mr Gs pension savings were invested applied a unit price 
adjustment (UPA) reducing fund values by 11.7%.
On 23 March the financial advisor noted that the transaction still remained 
outstanding and again contacted Prudential. He requested that the matter be 
escalated. Prudential emailed the advisor the following day to confirm that the PCLS 
would be shortly paid and that the pension investments being sold would be valued 
at the date of the original request. On 31 March Mr G was paid his PCLS, but the 
value used for the asset sales was that at the date of the transactions  after the 
UPA had been applied.
Mr G complained to Prudential about the delays, and the value that had been used to 
calculate his PCLS. Prudential first explained that the financial advisor had been 
given incorrect information about the date that would be used to value the sale. It 
said that its SLA allowed for a six-day period for a sale to be completed, It accepted 
that it had failed to meet that deadline, but noted that Mr Gs pension savings would 
still have been affected by the UPA even if it had. It apologised to Mr G for the delay 
and offered him some interest in compensation for the additional time it had taken for 
the PCLS to be paid. But it said it wasnt able to backdate the sale of Mr Gs pension 
investments to before the UPA was applied.
In its defence of this complaint, Prudential has provided an explanation of what it 
thinks happened. But I think I should note that explanation has evolved over time, 
both in the initial responses sent to Mr G, and in the answers Prudential has provided 
to this Service. I dont make any criticism of that, and thank Prudential for its help in 
describing what has happened. But I do think it underlines the complexity of the 
problem  and given its own staff have found it difficult at times to explain what 
happened, the problems that might be faced by Mr G, and his financial advisor, in 
understanding what needed to be done to effectively process this transaction.
Mr Gs financial advisor has explained, and provided details of, a large number of 
transactions for other clients, that were to all intents identical to what Mr G wanted to 
achieve. I think it would be reasonable to describe Mr Gs intentions as being in two 
stages  to ask Prudential to sell some of his pension investments to generate 
sufficient cash to cover a PCLS payment, and then to ask Prudential to pay that 
amount to him. In all the other transactions of this nature that Mr Gs financial advisor 
has instructed, the sale of the pension investments has taken place either the same 
day (if the instruction was placed before 12pm) or the following day (if the instruction 
was placed after 12pm).
 I think that the consistency of Prudentials processing on those other transactions 
would have provided some reassurance to Mr G about what he could reasonably 
expect to happen. But Prudential has also explained that it works to internal SLAs for 
processing of this nature  allowing a period of up to six days for a sale to take place. 
But it has also confirmed that these internal SLAs are not published  or readily 
available to external parties. So I think it would be reasonable for Mr G to base his 
expectations on what the financial advisor had experienced in the past  and not 
have concerns that other timescales might be effective.
Mr G has provided us with a detailed explanation of his decision processes at the 
time the instruction was given to Prudential. It is clear that this was a time of great 
market turmoil caused by the start of the coronavirus pandemic. And so I can 
understand that he was concerned to ensure that he acted promptly to protect, as far 
as possible, the value of his PCLS. He has explained that he was aware that a UPA 
could be applied at any time, and without notice, but given he expected the asset 
sale to take place the following day at the latest, he was prepared to accept that 
limited risk. I find his testimony both plausible and persuasive.
But the sale of Mr Gs pension assets didnt take place the following day. As 
I explained earlier, Prudential says a product charge was due to be taken from the 
pension savings on the same day so it was unable to process the sale instruction 
automatically. But I note, without any implied criticism, that delay wasnt notified to 
Mr G or his financial advisor. Had Mr G been aware that the product charge had 
prevented the automatic processing he says he could have cancelled the transaction, 
and re-input it the following day. It seems to me, from what Prudential has told us, 
that it is highly likely any second instruction would have completed automatically, and 
so the sale would have been completed before the UPA was applied.I think there is a great moral hazard in allowing Prudential to dictate the date at which 
a transaction is priced. Here, it seems the majority of transactions of this nature 
would achieve a sale within 24 working hours. But some could be processed up to six 
business days later. And there doesnt seem to be any definition about when in that 
period the transaction might complete. So there is a risk that sales might be 
deliberately delayed should there be an expectation of downward UPAs, or expedited 
should an upward UPA be expected.
Whilst I have no reason to think that is what happened here I think the only fair and 
reasonable approach would be to treat all instructions received at the same time, as 
being processed as the same value. It was Prudentials system design that dictated 
Mr Gs instruction could not be processed automatically  I understand that the 
remainder of the necessary checks would have allowed the transaction to proceed. 
So I cannot see it is fair that Mr G should be disadvantaged by his instruction 
needing manual processing when other similar transactions would be processed 
automatically.
So given I have reached that conclusion, I dont think there is much necessity for me 
to explore in detail some of the later aspects of the complaint. But I do think it would 
be appropriate for me to provide some brief commentary on two other areas.
There were delays, above the normal manual processing expectations of Prudential, 
in Mr Gs sale being completed. I havent seen any reasonable explanation for that 
additional delay. But I accept that, in itself, that additional manual processing time (in 
excess of the normal SLA) didnt result in Mr G suffering a loss. But I do accept what 
he says about the impacts of the incorrect information he was given. By the time he 
was chasing the completion of the sale on 23 March he would have been aware of 
the UPA. And so he might have considered cancelling the instruction at that time. But 
he was reassured by Prudential, in writing, that his sale would be valued using the 
pre-UPA price. I share his view that the impact of that incorrect information was far 
greater than just a loss of expectation.
An instruction of this nature  putting a pension into payment for the first time  
carries a statutory 30-day cooling off period. So Mr G could have reversed the 
transaction later if he had chosen to do so. But it seems to me that the complaints 
process that Prudential was taking him through was by no means near completion at 
the expiry of that cancellation period. I think Mr G still had a reasonable expectation 
at that point that the sale would be processed at the pre-UPA pricing. So I dont 
reach any adverse conclusions about Mr Gs failure to exercise his cancellation 
rights.
So, to summarise, I currently think it would be reasonable for Prudential to have used 
the asset price that would have applied to Mr Gs investments had the sale been 
completed via its automated process. So I think the price that should be used is that 
of the day the instruction was received (if before 12pm), or that of the following day. 
So I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Prudential to pay him some 
compensation.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr G has said he doesnt have anything further to add. Prudential has 
provided some additional comments. Although I am only summarising here what Prudential 
has said I want to provide reassurance that I have read, and carefully considered, the entire 
submission.Prudential has asked for clarity about what it is being expected to do in order to put things 
right for Mr G. It says that expecting it to calculate the PCLS based on the highest value 
between the date of the instruction and the processing date would seem wrong, going 
against both the terms and conditions of the pension plan, and also the need to treat 
customers fairly.
It says its stance on the complaint hasnt changed. If the request had been processed in line 
with its SLA, it would still have suffered from the application of the UPA. As it was not made 
aware of the UPA beforehand it couldnt have prioritised Mr Gs instruction even if it had 
thought that was appropriate. It says the requests it receives arent always processed in 
chronological order  they are allocated to various work queues to ensure that the SLAs are 
met. There is no guarantee that any request will be processed quicker than the SLA.
Prudential doesnt consider that it made a mistake here or failed to meet the terms and 
conditions of the retirement account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the additional comments that Prudential has made. But those 
comments do not lead me to conclude that I should alter the provisional findings that I made. 
I think that the questions and comments that Prudential has posed were fully answered 
within my provisional decision. However for clarity I will repeat some of those findings below.
Mr Gs financial advisor has provided us with details of a large number of transactions, of an 
almost identical nature, to that instructed by Mr G. Each of those requests were processed 
by Prudential using what appears to be an automated process and completed on either the 
same, or next, day. Prudential has confirmed that this automated process couldnt be used 
for Mr G as he had a product charge due to debit his account that day.
I dont think the relevant consideration here is what Prudential would consider to be its 
internal SLA. At the very least that should only be considered a maximum timescale for the 
transaction to complete (though I note, without any prejudice, that even the SLA timescales 
were not met here). Of far more importance, particularly given the unpublished nature of the 
SLA timescales, is the consistent experience that Mr Gs advisor had previously enjoyed. It 
seems to me that Mr Gs request only failed to enjoy a similar processing timescale due to 
the limitations of Prudentials systems.
Mr Gs advisor has confirmed that the original instruction was submitted at 11:32am. So 
when I restate the redress below I can be more specific about the date and methodology that 
Prudential should use. I agree with Prudential that Mr G shouldnt receive the best of both 
worlds in that calculation. Instead I will direct Prudential to apply the pricing that was 
applicable on the date the instruction was submitted. I think that is the date that it should 
have been processed  or, at the very least, the date at which the correct value should have 
been calculated. And that would also be in line with the expectation that Prudential gave to 
Mr G when he first noticed the delay.
I appreciate the pressures that Prudential would have experienced around that time given 
the market volatility being seen at the start of the Coronavirus pandemic. But there was a 
window of time that would have allowed Mr Gs transaction to complete before the UPA was 
applied. If Prudential had even made Mr G aware that his request required manual 
processing then I understand it could have been cancelled and resubmitted. And it is likely 
that second request would have been processed automatically  and before the UPA.So I remain of the opinion that it would be reasonable to recalculate the value of the PCLS 
that was paid to Mr G to reflect an earlier pricing point for the required sale of some of his 
pension investments. I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Prudential to put things right for 
him.
Putting things right
Prudential should recalculate the sale proceeds that would have been received, and 
therefore available as the PCLS, had the sale of the relevant part of Mr Gs pension savings 
been completed at the first pricing point available after 11:32am on 12 March 2020. My 
understanding is that the sale would only have applied to the relevant 25% of Mr Gs pension 
savings so should have no impact on his remaining investments that were crystalised by the 
transaction.  If, as I think likely, that would have resulted in Mr G receiving a higher PCLS, 
the additional amount should be paid to him.
Prudential should add interest to any additional amount it pays at a rate of 8% per annum 
from the date the PCLS was originally paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & 
Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Prudential Pensions Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman