DRN-1965582
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database and wouldnt let him have a bank account.
What happened
Lloyds received a report that fraudulently obtained funds had been received into Mr As bank 
account in June 2016. This money was withdrawn. It registered the marker and then told    
Mr A that he could no longer have an account. Lloyds says that he tried to open accounts in 
2019 using a slightly different name but that it wouldnt allow him to.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds remove the CIFAS marker. Mr A had accepted 
that hed been approached by someone on social media and who told him he could make 
some money using his account. But that he didnt then realise that he was being exploited 
and he has shown that he has mental health issues and other difficulties. Lloyds now agreed 
that in the circumstances it is reasonable to remove the marker. But our investigator said 
that it had the right to decide not to offer him a bank account in future. Its terms and 
conditions said that one reason for closing an account is if there is illegal or fraudulent 
activity on or connected to the account. It had not done anything wrong in closing the 
account.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He didnt think that Lloyds had 
acted fairly. Not having an account was stopping him getting a job. He didnt think he was a 
risk to Lloyds, and he said he wanted to take this further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As position and that he thinks that Lloyds didnt treat him fairly. He believes 
that its actions mean he cant get an account elsewhere. And hes frustrated that this is 
holding him back and that he was manipulated by a fraudster when he was younger.
Having reviewed all the information available, I agree with our investigator. I can see why 
Lloyds said it applied the CIFAS marker but it has now agreed to remove this and so I dont 
need to look into that further. It can make a commercial decision about whether or not to 
offer Mr A an account. Its explained why it closed his account and it didnt have to accept his 
applications in 2019.
I know our investigator told Mr A that this service wouldnt be able to help him get an account 
elsewhere as thats not our role. But she gave him details of organisations that might be able 
to help him. Therell be no CIFAS marker recorded anymore from Lloyds visible to other 
financial businesses following this complaint. I appreciate he will remain disappointed by the 
outcome here.
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC need do no more than its now offered to and which it to 
remove the marker it registered at CIFAS.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman