DRN-3307044
The complaint
Miss F is complaining Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt refunded an amount she paid on 
her Tesco credit card for a course. She brings the claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2021 Miss F entered onto a course to become a certified trauma informed coach. 
The course was provided by a third-party company  who I shall refer to as M. She paid 
$7,500 for the course and paid it on her Tesco credit card. Miss F later contacted Tesco to 
ask it to refund the amount she paid because she says M had misled her about the way the 
course would be run. She also said M had unfairly removed her from the course. She raised 
the following complaint points:
The programme was marketed as a small group programme capped at a maximum of 25 
people. And she said it was also marketed in such a way as to appear elite, high quality 
and "with personalized feedback and attention". She said it was described as "an 
exclusive group designed for coaches, therapists and practitioners who want to be on the 
cutting edge and take their business/practice and skills to the next level". So she 
expected this to be a small group coaching programme, the cohort of maximum 25 
participants. But she said there were around 160 people on the course  most of whom 
were at different stages in the course.
She was told the trauma informed support team would be available to support her 
throughout the programme. She said this was particularly important to her because of 
her past experiences. But she said the coaches werent trauma trained.
M said that shed have personal sessions with the course leader but this didnt happen.
She says she asked on the course message board if anyone else had similar concerns 
to her. But she says M deleted her posts and removed her access to it. M then removed 
her from the course. Miss F doesnt think M had fair grounds to do this. 
Tesco didnt uphold Miss Fs claim because it said she hadnt provided any documentary 
evidence to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Miss F didnt agree with Tescos 
decision as she maintained shed given sufficient evidence to show a breach of contract. 
Miss F also complained about the way Tesco had handled her claim in particular because of 
the following:
She made numerous requests for support as a vulnerable customer but these werent 
accepted for a number of days.
She was promised a detailed explanation of the outcome that was sufficiently detailed so 
she could understand the outcome, but the response she received to her claim was very 
limited.
She received the response to her claim at 4:50pm on a Friday, so couldnt speak to the 
claim handler about the response.
Tesco raised a complaint on her behalf on two occasions, despite her saying she didnt 
want to raise a complaint. She said this meant she received unsolicited emails, which 
caused her further distress. 
When she did raise her complaint she said she wanted to provide a detailed submission 
to be considered as part of the complaint. But Tesco responded to the complaint before 
she was given an opportunity to provide this.
Tesco acknowledged it should have referred Miss Fs complaint to its vulnerable consumers 
team sooner than it did and if offered her £400 in compensation for this. But it remained of 
the opinion its outcome to the S75 claim was fair.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She didnt think it was fair for Tesco to say it couldnt 
uphold the claim because Miss F hadnt provided documentary evidence as she thought 
Tesco should have also considered what Miss F had said. She thought M had removed 
Miss F from the course because she had expressed concerns about what the course 
provided. But she didnt think the terms of the contract entitled M to do this. So she thought 
there was a breach of contract in denying Miss F access to the course.
The investigator recommended that Tesco refunded the amount she paid for the course and 
reconstruct the credit card as if the transaction hadnt taken place.
Tesco didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and it raised the following points:
S75 is an evidence-based claim. It said to be able to submit a successful claim it needs 
to have everything it can in terms of evidence to prove a breach of contract has 
occurred. It said the basis of Miss Fs claim was that she didn't receive the service she 
paid for, i.e. the training was not as expected so it didn't think it was unreasonable to ask 
for evidence of what was provided.
It said the terms of the contract entitled M to remove participants if they become difficult 
to work with or impair the participation of their instructors or participants. It said M had 
confirmed Miss F wasn't following the instructions as she continued to post concerns/ 
feedback on the messaging board rather than speaking to M directly. So it didnt think it 
could say the removal was without reason. It said M had advised Miss F on four 
occasions to not post on the messaging board, but she continued to do so.
I wrote to both parties to explain I intended to uphold this complaint but for different reasons 
to the investigator. And I said the following:
The facts of this complaint are well known so I dont intend to set them out in detail. But, in 
summary, Miss F is unhappy Tesco didnt uphold her S75 claim as she thinks M 
misrepresented a course she entered into to become a trauma support coach. She also 
thinks it breached the terms of the contract in removing her from the course and not 
providing her with a refund.
M has said it removed Miss F from the course because she repeatedly breached the course 
guidelines regarding use of the Slack forum. It said Miss F used the forum a number of 
times to express her concerns about the quality of the support she was getting, which it said 
wasnt what the forum was for.
I think, in removing Miss F from the course, its referring to the following clause:
[M] may, at its sole discretion, limit, suspend, or terminate your participation in any of its 
programs, live, recorded, virtual, artificial intelligence, applications, social media-based or 
digital without refund or forgiveness of remaining payments if:
 
you become disruptive or difficult to work with;you fail to follow the program guidelines; or,
you impair the participation of our instructors or participants in our program(s).
In essence, its said it can remove Miss F from the course as it believes she failed to follow 
the program guidelines.
I accept that the contract could be interpreted to say that the terms allowed M to act as it did. 
But Im also conscious that this term could give M the right to remove a course participant 
from the course and retain the full cost of the course even if they failed to follow just one 
guideline  i.e. it gives a wide ranging right to remove someone from the course at a 
significant penalty. Im also not persuaded that its entirely clear to what this clause is 
referring to  is it the guidelines of course content itself or is it the terms of each and every 
aspect of the course. So for me, this is a matter of contract interpretation  in particular 
whether the courts would look at a narrow or wide interpretation of the contract.
In thinking about this, Im conscious that the court has frequently been asked to consider the 
principles of contract interpretation. In particular, Ive thought about the words of Popplewell 
J in The Ocean Neptune [2018] EWHC 163 (Comm) [8] which were endorsed by Chitty on 
Contracts at 15-052:
The courts task is to ascertain the objective meaning of the language which the parties 
have chosen in which to express their agreement. The court must consider the language 
used and ascertain what a reasonable person, that is a person who has all the background 
knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in 
which they were at the time of the contract, would have understood the parties to have 
meant. The court must consider the contract as a whole and, depending on the nature, 
formality and quality of drafting of the contract, give more or less weight to elements of the 
wider context in reaching its view as to the objective meaning of the language used. If there 
are two possible constructions, the court is entitled to prefer the construction which is 
consistent with business common sense and to reject the other. Interpretation is a unitary 
exercise; in striking a balance between the indications given by the language and the 
implications of the competing constructions, the court must consider the quality of drafting of 
the clause and it must also be alive to the possibility that one side may have agreed to 
something which with hindsight did not serve his interest; similarly, the court must not lose 
sight of the possibility that a provision may be a negotiated compromise or that the 
negotiators were not able to agree more precise terms. This unitary exercise involves an 
iterative process by which each suggested interpretation is checked against the provisions of 
the contract and its commercial consequences are investigated. It does not matter whether 
the more detailed analysis commences with the factual background and the implications of 
rival constructions or a close examination of the relevant language in the contract, so long as 
the court balances the indications given by each.
Giving, previous court rulings, I think its important to think about the intended purpose of the 
aforementioned clause. As I said above, I think the issue is whether I think a court would say 
M could fairly remove Miss F from the course with no refund, given her actions in the way 
she used slack. I think its important to note the bullet points either side of the term in 
question give grounds for removal where an individuals actions have the effect, or potential 
to effect, either a course participants ability to fairly participate in the course or would 
impede the course providers ability to adequately support the other participants.
Given this, I think its reasonable to interpret the purpose of the clause in question in the 
same way  i.e. do I think Miss Fs actions were such that it would impede other course 
participants ability to benefit from the course. I dont think its disputed that Miss F wasnt 
entitled to use slack for airing her grievances about the course. But, Ive not seen anything 
to show that this would have impeded either the course participants or the course provider. Im conscious M were able to immediately remove the posts when Miss F posted them, so I 
dont think there was any material impact to the other participants. So I dont think this would 
give M fair grounds to remove her from the course without any refund in the price paid.
But, even if Im wrong on this, Ive also thought about the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and 
particularly Schedule 2 which gives examples of consumer contract terms which may be 
regarded as unfair. In particular Ive noted the following paragraphs:
6. A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
7. A term which has the object or effect of authorising the trader to dissolve the contract on 
a discretionary basis where the same facility is not granted to the consumer, or 
permitting the trader to retain the sums paid for services not yet supplied by the trader 
where it is the trader who dissolves the contract.
So, if I was to accept the terms of the contract gave M fair grounds to remove Miss F from 
the course, I think it is important to consider this alongside the above. I think paragraph 6 is 
particularly pertinent here. Essentially, M has said that where a consumer fails to follow the 
guidelines it can remove them from the course and retain the full amount paid. I think a court 
would likely consider this a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
While I acknowledge the terms of the contract does allow M to remove a consumer in certain 
circumstances, I think a court would consider it unfair for them to retain the full amount paid. 
I think this would be particularly the case here, especially given Miss F had only been on the 
course for a few months before she was removed.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think it was fair for Tesco to have declined 
Miss Fs S75 claim because either:
 
M didnt have fair grounds to remove Miss F from the course; or
If it was fair to remove her from the course, I dont think a court would conclude it fair that 
it retained the full cost.
Given how little use of the course Miss F had, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint 
is that Tesco reconstructs Miss Fs credit card as if the transaction never took place. If, after 
it does so, it finds Miss F is out of pocket because of the transaction, it should pay 8% simple 
on this from any time shes out of pocket until she gets it back.
Miss F responded to say she didnt have anything further to add. Tesco didnt agree with 
what I said and said the following:
It didnt agree that the clauses in question are not clear and didnt think there was any 
ambiguity in the language M used. It thought any reasonable person would understand 
them and it thought the vagueness has been over exaggerated to strengthen the claim.
It acknowledged the court ruling I referred to, but it also thought it was also unfair to refer 
to them because it said court rulings are based on the merits of the individual case and 
are highly fact sensitive. It didn't think it's a fair approach to apply such court rulings on a 
broad-brush basis. It highlighted that this service is an alternative to the court and has a 
key purpose of looking at individual complaints on their own merits.
Tesco remained of the belief that the agreement between M and Miss F was clear in that 
M reserved the right to remove her from the course at its discretion, and by doing so was 
neither a breach of contract nor a misrepresentation. 
Tesco didnt think it was fair for me to make an assertion that a court would consider it unfair for M to retain the full amount paid. It didnt think Id taken into consideration the 
other costs involved, potential loss of clients due to Miss F taking a place on the course, 
and administration costs of removing her, as well as the costs of administering the 
course up to the point of removal. So it didnt agree that we could reasonably say a court 
would say it would be unfair to retain the full amount paid. 
Tesco acknowledged the difficulties Miss F has had in her past, and her on going
vulnerabilities. However, it remained of the belief that it acted fairly in not upholding the 
S75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered Tescos additional points but Ive come to the same conclusion as I 
did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
I acknowledge Tescos comments that this service is an alternative to the courts and its 
unfair to apply court rulings on such a broad-brush basis. I also agree with Tesco that this 
service isnt bound by case law as we consider every case on its own merits and decide 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But in this case Im being 
asked to decide whether it was fair for Tesco to not uphold Miss Fs S75 claim. 
S75 gives Miss F a like claim against Tesco if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by M. So, I must give consideration to what losses Miss F would likely be 
able to recover in court against M when considering what the like claim might look like. So I 
do need to think about what a court would be likely to say had Miss F pursued the claim 
against M directly  which includes having consideration of case law. I do think the case I 
referred to gives helpful guidance when thinking about how a court would be likely to 
interpret the contractual rights of both parties in respect to Miss Fs contract with M.
For all the reasons I set out before, I still think the clause in question has the potential for a 
wide interpretation and when considered with a wide brush has the potential to lead to an 
unfair situation and an unfair imbalance of rights between M and Miss F. I remain of the 
opinion that the intended purpose of the clause is to allow M to remove someone from the 
course if their actions were detrimental to other course participants use or benefit of the 
course. That said, I have considered Tescos comments that it doesnt consider the clause to 
ambiguous or unclear. But the critical point for me is that it creates a wide imbalance of 
rights with the different ways M could refer to breaches of program guidelines.
I do accept a court could decide to follow a wider consideration of the application of this 
term. But, I remain of the opinion that what Ive said above is fair. Nevertheless, given my 
comments in respect to the application of the CRA as to the fairness of the terms, I dont 
think I need to make a finding on whether Tesco and Ms interpretation of the clause is fair or 
not.
I dont think Tesco has given any material comment about whether it was fair for me to think 
the term in question would be considered unfair under the application of the CRA. But it has 
said I havent considered any costs M may have incurred by Miss F being a participant on 
the course. It also highlighted it was possible Miss Fs attendance on the course prevented 
another person being enrolled on the course.
Ive considered Tescos comments. Firstly, I havent seen anything to show that Miss Fs 
participation on the course prevented someone for fairly being able to fully participate on the 
course. Further to this, M acknowledged that there were around 160 people completing the course  at various different stages  when Miss F was on the course. Given this, I think its 
unlikely there was a limit to the number of people who be on the course at any one time.
I note Tesco has commented that I havent considered whether there were any costs 
involved due to Miss Fs participation on the course. But it also hasnt given any indication 
that there were. Ultimately, it was Ms decision to remove Miss F from the course and Im not 
persuaded Miss F received any material benefit from the course. I remain of the opinion that 
a court would consider the retention of the full cost to be unfair.
The CRA sets out that, where a term is considered to be unfair, its not binding on the 
consumer. So I think the effect of this is that M wasnt entitled to retain the full $7,500 Miss F 
paid. However, I do need to think about whats a fair remedy  particularly given Tescos 
comments. But I remain of the opinion the fairest way to resolve this matter is that Tesco 
refunds everything Miss F paid for the course for all the reasons I set out before. However, I 
do think its fair that Miss F should return any materials or equipment she was given as a 
participant of the course, should M wish her to do so.
Miss F has also complained about the quality of the support she was given and that the 
course was misrepresented to her. But I dont need to make a finding on this because, even 
if I was to agree with her on this, Id award the same redress as above. So I wont comment 
on this any further.
Finally, Miss F has complained about the way Tesco has handled her S75 claim in itself  in 
particular regarding the way its treated her as a vulnerable consumer. Theres always likely 
to be some inconvenience when making a claim. Im conscious the majority of the distress 
that Miss F has suffered from arises from Ms actions. Tesco isnt liable to compensate her 
for that. That said Tesco has acknowledged it could have done more to help her with the 
claim process  particularly in referring her to its vulnerable consumer team. Its offered her 
£400 in compensation for this and this is in line with what I would have awarded. So I dont 
think it needs to award her anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Tesco to do the following:
1. Reconstruct Miss Fs credit card as if the transaction never took place. If, after it does so, 
it finds Miss F is out of pocket because of the transaction, it should pay 8% simple on 
this from any time shes out of pocket until she gets it back*. 
2. Pay Miss F £400 in compensation, if it hasnt already done so, for the avoidable distress 
and inconvenience it caused her due to the way it handled her S75 claim.
It should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from when Miss F paid them 
until she gets them back. If Tesco thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman