DRN-3292665
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1993.
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint and the PPI monthly cost, its benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover and Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the sale (such as his health and 
employment) have all been set out previously and arent in dispute  except that Mr B has 
provided new information about his sick pay - so I havent set that all out again below, but 
Ive set out a summary and what hes told us about his sick pay.
Mr B took the PPI when, having applied for and been offered a further advance, he signed to 
switch to a fixed rate mortgage product a few months later. The form he signed for that said 
PPI arranged by Nationwide was a condition of the Fixed Rate and had to be kept up for at 
least the fixed rate period or else that rate would cease to apply. The PPI started shortly 
after Mr B signed and the further advance started a little after that. The PPI was cancelled 
after about two years.
I sent my provisional decision to the parties on 20 January 2022. Mr B and Nationwide both 
replied. In reaching my conclusions Ive considered all that theyve said. Nationwide had 
nothing new to add. Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision.
In brief, Mr B explained he was entitled to at least one years full sick pay with more at his 
employers discretion (hed already told us of the substantial redundancy cover his employer 
provided). He maintained he wouldnt have taken the PPI had he known the facts he knows 
now. He also told us he was made to understand he had to have the PPI to secure the 
mortgage  and that if it had been explained properly, he wouldnt have signed for the policy.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides refund of some of the cost of the PPI, to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr B recalls having to take PPI to get the mortgage. But at the time of the sale Mr B 
already had his mortgage  without PPI. Also he was offered a further advance before he 
signed for the PPI. Also his further advance application presented PPI as an option he 
had a choice about taking. With all this in mind, I think it likely Nationwide made Mr B 
aware he could have his mortgage, and take further borrowing, without also taking PPI  
and what I have isnt enough to make me think Nationwide misled Mr B about this.
The PPI was a condition of a fixed rate product Mr B applied for after his further advance 
application. What I have makes me think Mr B was aware the PPI was a condition of the 
fixed rate and knew he was buying the PPI on that basis. I say this taking into account 
the wording of the fixed rate agreement Mr B signed and his recollections of having to 
take the PPI.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr B enough clear and timely information 
so he could make the decision for himself. 
I think Mr B knew the PPI was mortgage repayments cover, as this is what the form 
called it. I also think it likely he was aware it was accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover  as I think it likely this wouldve been mentioned when the cover was discussed 
(and what hes told us makes me think it was discussed). So I think it likely he was aware 
of the PPIs general purpose, and Im not persuaded there is more Nationwide couldve 
told him about this that wouldve affected his decision.
I think Mr B likely had a broad idea of what the PPI would cost - I think it unlikely he 
wouldve agreed to the fixed rate and PPI without an idea of the likely cost. Hes told us 
there was a conversation about the repayment and whether he could afford it, which in 
my view adds weight to this conclusion. Overall, what I have doesnt persuade me more 
information about the PPI cost wouldve changed the decision Mr B made  as I think he 
took it with a good idea of what the cost was.
I dont think knowing more about the policys significant disability or unemployment 
exclusions wouldve changed Mr Bs decision. I say this because the health issue hes 
told us he had is one hes told us he didnt miss work with and from all hes told us I dont 
think his view of the cover wouldve been changed if hed known this was excluded. Also 
he didnt have other health issues and wasnt affected by exclusions affecting temporary 
or short-term employment as he was a long-standing permanent employee.
Absences lasting less than 90 days werent covered but Mr Bs work benefits wouldve 
covered him in that situation. Also Ive not seen anything to make me think his decision 
to take the PPI and fixed rate wouldve been affected if hed known the PPI benefit was 
payable for no longer than 24 months for any one claim.
Mr B had work benefits to cover him for sickness or redundancy for at least a year and 
possibly much longer. But it was for him to decide what value the PPI benefit had for him 
in light of that  Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI or offer advice as part of the sale. 
Whatever value he placed on it at the time, Im not persuaded his view wouldve changed significantly had Nationwide told him more about the cover at the time. As such, and with 
all Ive said above in mind, I dont think more information wouldve changed the decision 
Mr B made to take the fixed rate that carried with it the obligation to take the PPI. 
Overall, I dont think it likely the PPI was too dissimilar to what Mr B wouldve thought he was 
buying  and Im not persuaded that any differences wouldve changed what happened even 
if Mr B had been told more about it. With this and all Ive said above in mind, Im not 
persuaded Mr Bs decision to take the fixed rate product, and with it the PPI, wouldve 
changed had Nationwide done more in terms of the information it gave him about the PPI 
and its terms, exclusions and costs.
In light of all this, I consider Mr B wouldve still taken the PPI. If the PPI benefits were a 
consideration at the time, I think they were sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he 
was getting  and I think it likely he made his decision with an awareness of the costs.
Taking all this into account, I think it likely Mr B wouldve taken the policy like he did in any 
event, even if there hadnt been any shortcomings in the way the PPI was sold to him.
Mr Bs representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on 
the chances of making a claim.
Mr Bs representatives have not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr B 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipin order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission, for 
the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Nationwide had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Nationwide has already paid Mr B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further.
I appreciate my conclusion will disappoint Mr B and Im grateful to him for all his points.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman