DRN-3778339
The complaint
Mr A complains about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes). He says 
personal belongings werent returned to him from a car that was recovered.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr A acquired a car by entering into a contract hire agreement with Mercedes.
The car was collected in December 2022 and Mr A says he wasnt present to remove his 
belongings from the car at the time.
Mr A says he contacted Mercedes immediately to retrieve his belongings and chased 
several times later. He says when Mercedes eventually did get in touch, they provided 
details of a third party who Ill refer to as D. Mr A says he contacted D and was told that 
most of his belongings had been destroyed, apart from some personal and sensitive items. 
Mr A says the value of his destroyed belongings was around £8,500, and says it wasnt just 
about the value but also the loss of personal things that cant be replaced.
Mr A complained to Mercedes. In relation to the property left in the car, Mercedes say they 
attempted to resolve things once they were notified of Mr As concerns. They say they 
provided details of D for Mr A to contact, and D also attempted to contact Mr A directly on 
several occasions, but it wasnt successful and didnt receive a reply.
Mr A, unhappy with Mercedes response, referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that Mercedes didnt need to do anything further to resolve Mr As 
complaint. In summary, the investigator thought Mercedes had made reasonable attempts to 
support Mr A and arrange for him to collect his belongings.
Mr A disagreed. He said, in summary, that his agreement was with Mercedes, so he was 
unsure why D was involved in arranging collection of his personal belongings. He said he 
received no emails and said he didnt answer calls from certain phone numbers. And he said 
Mercedes only told him where his belongings were in April 2022, after they had been 
destroyed. As Mr A disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr A complains about a car supplied under a contract hire agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr As complaint about Mercedes.
What I need to consider here is whether Mercedes had done enough to help Mr A retrieve 
his personal belongings, after the car was recovered.
Internal notes provided by Mercedes show that they emailed Mr A on 3 February 2022 and 
said that he would need to collect his belongings by 14 February 2022, or they will be 
disposed of. 
I can also see internal notes that show Mercedes contacted D and asked it to arrange 
collection with Mr A. And I can see D then confirmed to Mercedes that it had attempted to 
contact Mr A several times without response.
I appreciate Mr A said he didnt receive any emails. But I can see these were sent to the 
same email address Mr A provided to our service. So I think its most likely these were sent. 
In these emails, its explained to Mr A that if he doesnt contact D within 11 days the items 
will be destroyed. Given the car had been collected some time before, Im satisfied this was 
a reasonable timeframe.
I also think on balance its most likely D did call Mr A several times, as it explained to 
Mercedes. Mr A said he doesnt answer calls from certain numbers, but given the situation, I 
dont think hes mitigated his losses here. And I dont think Mercedes are at fault for Mr A not 
answering his phone.
Thinking about things here, I dont think Mercedes has acted unfairly in this instance. They 
chased Mr A directly on occasions and they asked D to also contact him. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to ask Mr A to contact D as the car was being held by them. And I think they 
also gave Mr A enough time to respond to any communication that was sent to him. 
Mr A has said the items left in the car totalled around £8,500. I have thought carefully about 
this. An email sent to Mr A listed the items that were left in the car. I cant see Mr A has sent 
further evidence to show other items were present. So, without information to suggest 
otherwise, I think it is unlikely the items left in the car amounted to around £8,500. 
Mercedes has said that there were some belongings that were retained by the third party 
due to how important they may be to Mr A. Internal notes from Mercedes show Mr A has 
now been in contact about retrieving them. I suggest Mr A contacts Mercedes directly if he 
hasnt obtained those belongings and still wishes to. 
In this instance, I dont think Mercedes has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman