DRN-3396086
The complaint
Ms G complains that she was unable to transfer money to her Nationwide Building Society 
Help To Buy Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Ms G says she was unable to transfer money to her ISA in June and July 2021. She says 
she was unable to replace the money which has left a £400 hole in her savings and has 
missed the £100 top up that would have been added. Ms G says Nationwide compensation 
payment of £50 is not enough and would like a payment in line with the money she was 
unable to invest.
Nationwide says it checked its systems and says there is no record of an attempt by Ms G to 
pay money into the ISA in June 2021 or May 2021. It says Ms G did make a payment in July 
2021. It accepts it gave Ms G incorrect information when she spoke to it and that is the 
reason it paid £50 compensation. It doesnt accept making a mistake about the payments 
into the ISA.
Ms G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was no record of Ms G making a payment into her ISA in May or June 2021 
and no evidence of a payment leaving her current account. The investigator thought Ms G 
could have used alternative payment methods if she wished and thought the £50 
compensation appropriate for the incorrect information.
Ms G doesnt accept that view and says she tried on multiple occasions to make the 
payments and called Nationwide about the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms G will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Nationwides records and am satisfied there is no record of a 
payment into Ms Gs ISA in May or June 2021 or a corresponding payment out of Ms Gs 
current account. Im also satisfied that Nationwide has checked its records and has said it 
doesnt have a record of an attempted payment by Ms G in either of those months or a 
record of a failed attempt. So, I think on balance that Nationwide hasnt made a mistake and 
think it likely that if a payment was attempted that there would have been a record of it.
I can see that Ms G spoke to Nationwide in July 2021 but by that stage it was too late to 
make payments into the ISA for the previous months. I would have expected Ms G to have 
spoken to Nationwide at the time she says the payments failed and considered alternative 
methods of making a payment into her ISA such as attending a branch or telephone 
banking.
I accept that Nationwide gave Ms G incorrect information when she called it. Im satisfied 
that incorrect information is not related directly to the main complaint here and the 
compensation was not intended to reflect the missed ISA payments. I make clear Im 
satisfied the compensation of £50 is fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint and do 
not think the incorrect information had a significant impact on Ms G or resulted in any 
financial loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman