DRN-3396162
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited (LiveLend) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2018, Miss B took out a loan with LiveLend, The total repayable was £7,199.65. 
Repayments were £120 over 59 months, with a final repayment of £119.65. Miss B has 
explained to us that this was unaffordable, as she had been reliant on doorstep loans from 
another lender at the time, and her income was lower than shed stated to LiveLend when 
shed applied for the loan. She feels that if LiveLend had carried out further checks, it would 
Have realised this, and not lent to her.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She noted that although there was previous adverse information on 
Miss Bs credit file, which LiveLend had seen, this was from a number of years previously. 
There was no evidence on the credit file of the doorstep loans, and Miss B wasnt able to 
provide details either. Our investigator thought that LiveLend had carried out proportionate 
checks, and its lending decision had been reasonable based on the results of these checks.
Miss B disagreed. She feels that further checks should have been carried out, for example 
requesting bank statements. 
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why.
Lenders are required to carry out proportionate checks, when making lending decisions. In 
this case, LiveLend relied on:
Miss Bs declaration that she was in full-time employment, with a net income of 
£1,255, with rental payments of £200 a month and living costs of £500 a month;
verification of this net monthly income, using a database provided by a credit 
reference agency; and
a report from a credit reference agency showing unsecured credit commitments of 
£204 a month.
Taking this information into account, LiveLend considered the loan was affordable, as Miss B 
would have sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly repayments.
So, Ive considered whether these checks were proportionate, or whether LiveLend should 
reasonably have done more. Ive thought about this very carefully, not least because the 
loan is for a significant amount of money. I think, ideally, LiveLend could have asked for 
bank statements. However, Im mindful that it had taken steps to verify Miss Bs monthly 
income. These steps supported what shed declared when she applied for the loan. So, I 
dont think there was anything to suggest that LiveLend should make further inquiries as to 
whether this was correct. Further, there was no evidence of the doorstep loans on Miss Bs 
credit file, and Miss B hasnt been able to provide any paperwork. So, theres nothing to 
make me think LiveLend could reasonably have been aware of these.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that LiveLend carried out proportionate checks, and its 
lending decision was reasonable, based on what these checks showed.
That said, if Miss B is currently experiencing financial difficulty, I would urge her to contact 
LiveLend. I would expect it to respond positively any sympathetically to circumstances of 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman