DRN-2646004
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr S says he was abroad with friends. He was separated from them on his way back to an 
apartment and his mobile phone was stolen from him at knifepoint at about 11pm that 
evening. Nothing else was taken. His phone was used to make payments using a mobile 
payment service (Apple Pay). He says he didnt make the three payments which came to 
over £5,000.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payments would have been verified 
using security information set on his mobile phone. They were made at one venue and over 
a period of time. Each time the verification would have been needed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Santander wasnt able to 
show whether the payments were verified with a passcode, or biometric data. But such 
verification would have been required to make the payments. Mr S said he had reported the 
loss of his phone to police but unfortunately there was no crime report and he hadnt notified 
Santander or blocked the mobile payment service. Mr S thought that Santander should have 
contacted him about the payments  especially as he hadnt told it he was going abroad. But 
our investigator said that even if Santander had it may not have made a difference as a third 
party if using the phone to make payments had the security information. She couldnt see 
how a third party had been able to see his passcode. And to then be able to use the phone 
over a period of time to make payments. She thought a fraudster would have taken as much 
money as quickly as possible and that the payments wouldnt be spaced out in one venue  
they occurred at 11:50, 00:16 and 01:10. She didnt think that CCTV even if available would 
have made a difference.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that his issue was with the practices and processes of Santander 
itself. It was frustrating that it couldnt now locate some information and didnt have 
recordings of his phone calls. CCTV mightnt have led anywhere but there was no 
information about the nature of the payments themselves. He thought he might have caused 
confusion over access to the phone and said that the code to open the phone and authorise 
payments was the same. There was no option for these to be separate. The PIN on his 
actual debit card was different. So, if someone saw him open his phone then that person 
would have access to mobile payments. Mr S says that when he has been abroad before he 
filled in an online form for Santander. This time he didnt do so and expected as before that 
purchases might be temporarily blocked and thought that Santander should have done so 
this time. It could have easily prevented what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr S wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the phone and verification 
information used for these payments?
- Did Mr S authorise the payments on the account? 
- Should Santander reasonably have taken any further action?
I am making my decision on the information available. It isnt always possible to have 
complete information for example call recordings. I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. 
I have seen the audit logs for these payments. And I am satisfied that they were originated 
and authenticated using the mobile payment service. The issue is whether Mr S consented 
to them.
Mr S said to this service that the security on the phone I believe uses either face recognition 
or a PIN number. To distinguish as he has that number from the different PIN on his 
underlying debit card I will continue to describe it as a passcode. Santander cant say which 
specific method was used here. But Im not sure that puts Mr S at a disadvantage. I think I 
can safely say that Mr S would have needed to be involved in payments using face 
recognition or touch ID. Mr S position and explanation is that the third party had discovered 
his passcode and that his passcode must have been seen at some earlier time  because he 
doesnt for example say that it was demanded by the person who robbed him.
Passcodes are now typically six digits but in any event I dont think even a four-digit number 
could have been guessed. I dont see and Mr S cant explain when that number was 
compromised. I also appreciate he says he didnt know that much about the mobile payment 
service and in particular that there werent specific limits. But Im afraid as he set this up 
thats not something Santander should be responsible for. And I also think that he was 
reasonably expected in the same way as if hed lost a debit card, to report the loss or at least 
disable the apps and mobile payment service.
As our investigator indicates, the payments were consistent with the person using the phone 
while spending time at a venue. And I want to add that there was for example a further 
attempt to make a payment at 01:38 at the same venue which was declined twice for lack of 
funds in Mr S account. The point is that the phone was used in this way over nearly a two-
hour period there. I appreciate that the payments are for large amounts  but Mr S position 
is that he wasnt there and didnt have the phone and so couldnt have say been tricked into 
making them.
I appreciate Mr S says that Santander should have flagged these payments as unusual as 
they originated outside this country and given the amounts. That point though only has 
significant relevance if I were to find that Mr S didnt consent to them and authorise them. 
Based on the evidence available and considering what hes said I am not persuaded that the 
most likely explanation is the one he gives  that his phone was stolen, and he didnt make 
these payments. The timing of the payments, lack of any evidence to support his phone 
being taken and passcode being discovered and him taking no action to disable the payment 
service or report this loss to Santander to me are the key factors here. Given that finding I dont consider that Santander ought reasonably to have contacted Mr S about the payments 
at the time.
I fully appreciate the amount at stake here for Mr S, but I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman