DRN-2257225
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc did not provide him with appropriate notice when 
changing the interest rate on his bank account.
What happened
Mr M had a bank account with Santander. The interest rate on this account reduced from 
1.5% to 1% in May 2020. Mr M says he did not receive notice of this change. 
In June 2020, Mr M received notice that the interest rate on this account was to be reduced 
to 0.6%. This notification also led Mr M to discover that the interest rate had already been 
reduced to 1% from May 2020. Mr M says he hadnt received notice of the previous change.
Mr M complained to Santander, who told him that full notice of this change had been initially 
provided with his account statement for the period December 2019 to January 2020. Mr M 
remained unhappy, saying that he did all his banking online and didnt check his statements. 
He said that notice of previous changes to his account had been provided in an email or 
e-document that he received a notification of. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. However, our investigator felt that Santander had 
complied with the terms and conditions of his account. And that whilst she acknowledged 
Mr M may not read his statements, she did not feel she could hold Santander responsible for 
this. Mr M remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is evident that Mr M was not aware of the change to his account. The question I need to 
ask is whether this was due to a failing on behalf of Santander. The starting point to answer 
this question is to consider what the terms of the account require. 
The terms allow Santander to vary the interest rates on the bank account Mr M had. But 
when doing so, Santander needs to provide notice of such a change at least two months 
before the change. The terms of his bank account also say that, where a change is being 
made to an aspect such as the interest applicable to the account, notice may be given:
by post, email, a statement message, information accompanying your statement, 
a secure message on our Online Banking service, text on your mobile phone, or in 
any other way that will be sent to you individually.
Santander has said that the statement for the period December 2019 to January 2020 
provided this notice. I can see that the first page of the statement referred to there being 
changes and then enclosed details of these changes. Full details were provided, along with 
a summary that began:
From 5 May 2020, we're reducing the interest rate paid on balances up to £20,000 
on 1 2 3 Current Accounts from 1.50% AER / 1.49% gross (variable) to 1.00% AER1 / 
gross2 (variable)
I consider that this summary, along with the other details provided, gave clear information on 
the changes. This was included with Mr Ms statement. And the statement was produced 
more than two months before the change.
So, by providing the details above as information accompanying Mr Ms statement for the 
period December 2019 to January 2020, Santander met the requirements of the accounts 
terms and conditions. 
I appreciate that Mr M does not read his statements, and so did not see this notification. But 
I cant conclude this is Santanders responsibility. I also appreciate that when other changes 
were made to the account some years ago, Mr M may have received notice in a different 
way. But I do not consider Santanders decision, to provide notice of the more recent 
changes in the way it did, to have been inappropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman