DRN-2201685
The complaint
Miss M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) wrongly 
settled a claim on her car insurance for an accident, failed to indemnify her and required her 
to pay the third partys costs.
What happened
Miss M had a car insurance policy at the relevant time which was underwritten by Watford.
Watford received notification from the representative of a third party that a car accident had 
taken place in November 2019 and that it involved Miss Ms car and resulted in damage to 
the third partys vehicle. The representative later sent photographs to Watford which showed 
Miss Ms vehicle leaving the scene of the accident. The number plate was clearly visible.
Miss M responded to Watford in December 2019 and stated that she had not been involved 
in, and was not aware of, any accident. She then stated that she had been on holiday for a 
month and that her car had been in a garage for repair for three months. She said that she 
would provide details of the garage so that the claim could be redirected. She gave the first 
name of a mechanic with whom she said she had left her car.
Watford instructed assessors to inspect Miss Ms car in order to verify any damage. The 
assessors tried to contact Miss M on three occasions in order to do so, but without success.
Following various requests for information by Watford, Miss M stated that the car was 
missing and that this had been reported to the police. She then provided a telephone 
number and address for the person with whom she said she left her car, as well as a police 
crime reference number. Watford was unsuccessful in locating any garage at that address, 
or to speak to any mechanic of the first name and telephone number given by Miss M. 
Watford wrote to Miss M to say that it considered that she had not co-operated and were 
withdrawing their indemnity on the claim. Watford said that it had no option but to deal with 
the claim.
Miss M responded in February 2020 to say that any damage to the third partys car was not 
her fault and stated that Watford should not to issue any payments on her behalf. Watford 
paid out the sum of £2,588.84 in total to settle the third party claim however. It then required 
Miss M to reimburse this sum. Miss M cancelled her insurance policy and Watford didnt 
refund any premiums.
 
Miss M then complained to Watford in March 2020 about its handling of the matter and 
Watford sent a final response to Miss M in April 2020 rejecting her complaint.
Miss M then contacted this Service and our Investigator looked at what had happened. The 
Investigators view was that Watford had no choice but to settle the claim.
Miss M remained dissatisfied and the complaint has now been passed to me in my role as 
Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Miss Ms policy provides that Watford can take over and conduct the defence or 
settlement of any claim against a policy. Thats a common term in motor policies and means 
that Watford can deal with a claim against Miss M as it sees fit. Secondly, the policy says 
that cover may become invalid if the policy-holder fails to co-operate or acts in a way that 
makes it difficult to process or defend a claim. Thirdly, the policy provides that the policy-
holder must repay amounts which Watford has been required to pay by law but are no longer 
covered by the policy. Fourthly, where a claim has been made against the policy-holder, 
Watford are not required to refund any premium following cancellation.
In each case, wed expect Watford to apply the policy terms fairly and reasonably. I think it 
did so here and Ill explain why.
Watford states in its letter in April 2020 that they query whether Miss M was involved in the 
accident herself or was aware of who was driving at the time. It also states that Miss M has 
not been forthcoming with the details in order for it to deal with the third party claim or to 
redirect the matter to another insurer; As we are the only Insurer showing on the Motor 
Insurers database then we have no option but to deal with the claim and are regulated to do 
so under the Road Traffic Act. As you have not provided us with any details to enable us to 
contact the garage, we have dealt with the third party claim on a without prejudice basis.
Miss M says that she had provided all the information Watford had requested and 
considered that she was not in breach of the conditions of the policy. She said that she had 
given instructions to Watford not to make any payment to the third party, as she was not 
driving the vehicle at the time of the accident and therefore not liable.
I note what Miss M says, however, as it had received an allegation that the vehicle of one of 
its policyholders was involved in an accident, it was required by law to respond to that claim. 
It might also help if I explain that theres a centrally held database that records which 
insurers have provided insurance for specific cars. When there has been a car accident 
therefore, a third party can find the insurers details from the database.
I note that the accident took place mid November 2019 and when Miss M replied to Watford 
two weeks later, she denied any involvement, however she did not mention that the car was 
missing or that the car had been stolen. An assessor then contacted Miss M to arrange an 
inspection of the car. They were unable to contact Miss M. Miss M then claimed that the car 
was missing and later provided a crime reference number.
I appreciate that Miss M did report the matter to the police. Despite this, Miss M was unable 
to provide Watford with meaningful information or documents to confirm the whereabouts of 
her car at the time of the accident in order to help them to redirect the claim if appropriate. 
Im afraid that Miss M provided very limited information indeed about the mechanic and 
garage where she said that the car had been left and the address was noted to be a 
residential address, not a garage. Watford was unable to trace the mechanic on the 
telephone number which Miss M had provided and the assessors were unable to inspect the 
vehicle. In my view, the information provided by Miss M was so limited that it was simply 
insufficient to allow Watford to deal properly with a third party claim or to re-direct the claim 
to any relevant insurer. I therefore agree with our Investigator that Miss M did not fully co-
operate with Watfords reasonable requests. It is my view that Watford were obliged to settle the third party claim in the light of the clear 
photographic evidence it had received as to the involvement of Miss Ms car in the accident. 
It had little chance of successfully defending the claim without co-operation from Miss M in 
supplying proper evidence as to the whereabouts of her car before, at the time of, and after 
the accident.
It follows that as Miss M did not take all reasonable steps to assist Watford to defend the 
claim and is likely to have prejudiced Watfords position regarding settlement. It was 
reasonable therefore for Watford to decide that Miss M would not be indemnified under the 
policy.
In all the circumstances, I consider that Watford has acted in accordance with the terms of 
Miss Ms policy and has done so fairly and reasonably in settling the third-party claim, 
withdrawing the indemnity and deciding not to re-pay a proportion of the premium following 
her cancellation of the policy. Im therefore not going to interfere with Watfords decision to 
reclaim the costs from Miss M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman