DRN-3489654
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) handled claims on his 
Homecare home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mr B has a home emergency insurance policy which provides cover for repairs to his 
boiler. The policy is underwritten by BGI.
In January 2021, Mr B reported a problem with his boiler to BGI and it sent an 
engineer to fix the issue. He was charged a £60 excess.
In April 2021, he reported a further problem and another engineer was sent and 
another £60 excess charged. But it took another five visits over an 11 day period for 
the boiler to be fully fixed, and this meant for some of the time there was no hot water 
or heating. 
Mr B complained to BGI about this, explaining that his sons young family had been 
staying at the property and so this had been particularly inconvenient. He also wasnt 
happy with the excess fees as he considered the second incident to be a 
continuation of the first.
BGI apologised and explained an excess fee was payable each time a claim was 
made and as these were more than 10 days apart, they were considered separate 
incidents. 
But it agreed it had taken too many visits for the problem to be solved and because 
of the inconvenience this caused it agreed to pay Mr B £110 in compensation, waive 
the £60 April excess and make adjustments to his policy so no more excesses would 
be charged for the rest of the cover year and reduced the premium by £34.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service but our Investigator didnt uphold it as he 
thought the compensation BGI had offered was fair. Mr B asked an Ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality and so my investigation and decision will focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Having looked at the terms of the policy, Im satisfied BGI is entitled to charge an 
excess each time a repair is undertaken. In my experience, this is a common feature 
in many insurance policies.
Mr B believes BGIs engineer didnt carry out the first boiler repair correctly or was 
even incompetent and the second claim was as a direct result of this. Ive not been 
given any evidence to consider which supports this position.
BGI says the issues were not as a result of something its engineer did, pointing out 
that the two incidents didnt happen in quick succession and were some three 
months apart. Ive considered the job sheet which shows the engineer replaced worn 
electrodes in January 2021 and, on the face of it, the work undertaken in April is 
unconnected to this. 
So while I acknowledge Mr Bs view on this matter and can understand how two 
boiler issues within a few months may appear linked, Ive not seen an expert opinion 
which supports his view or sufficient evidence to persuade me it has merit.
Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied BGI acted fairly when it treated the two 
incidents separately and charged two excesses.
BGI acknowledged it took too many visits to fix the problem and this caused Mr B 
inconvenience. I agree with this although I do acknowledge parts had to be ordered 
on a number of occasions and this necessitated some of the further visits. But that 
doesnt detract from the inconvenience Mr B experienced due to the repeated visits 
and the intermittent lack of heating and hot water over the time period in question.
One of Mr Bs main concerns was his sons young family were at the property at the 
time and the impact the lack of hot water and heating and the inconvenience of 
repeated visits had on them. I know he didnt think BGI prioritised the initial April 
2021 repair but for the reasons explained by our Investigator Im satisfied it did. 
I should be clear, the awards this Service makes arent designed to punish or fine a 
business but to reflect the impact of its actions or poor service on its customer. In this 
case, my assessment of any award is limited to the impact BGIs actions had on Mr B 
as the policyholder. I cant take into account the impact on anyone else who was at 
the property at the time.
Having considered everything very carefully, and for the reasons Ive explained 
above, Ive concluded the offer of compensation and the actions undertaken by BGI 
are a fair and reasonable way for BGI to recognise the impact on Mr B. So I wont be 
asking BGI to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman