DRN-4108584
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that he only received a partial refund from his bank  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC  after he was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr B was called by scammers pretending to be from Barclays saying his account was under 
threat and he needed to move his money to keep it safe. Mr B said the callers knew his 
name and some of his account information. Overall, he said the caller was very convincing 
and knew all the processes and talked him through what to do, step by step. Mr B ultimately 
followed the scammers instructions to move his money. In total, Mr B made ten transfers to 
three different banks (Banks A, B and C) over the course of three days. He said he was told 
the money couldnt be moved at once which is why he had to do it over several days and 
separate transactions. And he didnt question the different payees he was setting up as he 
says he didnt receive any warnings that would lead him to question what he was being told 
on the phone. 
When Mr B realised hed been scammed, he raised it with Barclays. Barclays refunded 
£3,150.85 of his losses, saying he was entitled to a partial refund as it agreed there had 
been bank errors, but as Mr B hadnt confirmed the authenticity of the beneficiary he 
wouldnt be receiving a full refund. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service and ultimately received two different opinions. The 
first said he should receive additional refunds from Barclays on the payments he made to 
Banks A and  B  which would split liability equally between the sending bank  Barclays, 
the receiving banks and Mr B.  The second opinion said Barclays didnt need to refund 
anything further. Mr B had already received the refund amount, that he would have 
recommended  which was a 50% refund from the fifth payment onwards  which is when 
he thought Barclays ought to have considered Mr B was at risk of financial harm and 
intervened with effective warnings  in line with the CRM code. 
Mr B remained unhappy as he was seeking a full refund of his losses. The complaint was 
passed to me.
I have been in touch with both Mr B and Barclays since the complaint was passed to me. 
When speaking with Mr B Ive gathered more detail about his version of events and the 
difficulties hes had understanding what refund hes received and why. Ive also 
corresponded with Barclays and during this time it remained unclear what refund Barclays 
had paid to Mr B and why. 
Barclays final response and later correspondence, with our service, did not provide clarity on 
the reason for refund amount it had paid. It didnt explain whether it was admitting liability 
under the CRM code or whether the refunds originated from the receiving banks as they had 
admitted some liability. After several interactions I was able to ascertain that Barclays was 
saying it wasnt liable for any of Mr Bs losses and the partial refunds had original from 
Banks A and C.
I disagree and Im satisfied Barclays is partly liable. I have already set out my reasons and 
recommendation in an informal provisional decision to both Mr B and Barclays. Mr B has 
accepted my provisional findings. Barclays has failed to engage with those 
recommendations or correspondence and so I have set out my findings formally in a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Barclays is partly liable for Mr Bs losses. I say this because:
- There was an "extra care marker" on Mr Bs account - meaning it needed to review 
his account with care - this had been on his account dating back to 2000. Barclays 
says it asked Mr B what the marker was for and he didn't know and it didnt know 
either. Barclays cant provide any further detail about this. Mr B hasn't told us about 
any underlying conditions or his circumstances that might have warranted this 
marker. However, the marker was there at the time the scam occurred, so I think this 
is a factor Barclays ought to have taken into account when looking at Mr Bs account 
activity. 
- When Mr B made the transactions, he had to complete payee details about the 
destination account/receiving account. When doing so Mr B added the payee as 
being in his name. When a check on the account name was made this would have 
displayed a result saying they didn't match. I think this is something that both Mr B 
and Barclays ought to have taken into account when proceeding with the payment. 
- The first scam payment was for £1.40 but after this Mr B made a payment of £1,200 
and £850 to a new payee where the name didn't match. Although these values aren't 
particularly high in value generally, or in relation to Mr Bs account usage, I think the 
account name not matching and the extra care marker on Mr Bs account mean that 
Barclays ought to have considered these payments as potentially Mr B being at risk 
of financial harm and intervened. 
- Because of this, under the CRM code, Barclays ought to have provided effective 
warnings with regard to those initial payments. And because it didn't, Barclays hasnt 
meet its requirements under the code. Im satisfied Barclays is therefore partly liable 
for Mr Bs losses.
But I have only found that Barclays is partly liable for Mr Bs losses. It doesn't need to 
provide a full refund. I say this because Barclays can rely on an exemption not to refund in 
full if Mr B didn't have a reasonable basis for believing the person, he was dealing with was 
legitimate. These are the same points that both investigators made when they considered 
the complaint. There were factors about the scam which I think ought to have been red flags 
to Mr B.
- The call came from a mobile number which wasn't linked to the bank in anyway and 
Mr B didn't go on to check the identity of the caller. 
- Mr B said the caller knew his name and account number and was very convincing as 
they knew the processes. But I don't think this alone, was enough for Mr B to have 
reasonably believed he was speaking with his bank and to follow the instructions they 
gave thereafter. 
- Mr B also would have received the notification that the account name didn't match 
and this ought to have been concerning as he thought he was paying an account in 
his name - in order to keep the funds safe. - And if Mr Bs money wasn't safe its not clear why he needed to make transfers over 
a number of days rather than transfer it all at once.
So this leads me to conclude that Mr B is also partly liable for his losses.  
How to calculate the refund
Where the receiving bank has already refunded 50% (Banks A and C) of Mr Bs losses then 
Barclays is liable for 16% of the remaining losses, with Mr B liable for 33% of the losses. 
And where the receiving bank hasn't said it was liable (Bank B) then both Mr B and Barclays 
are jointly (50%) liable. I've set this out in a table below to help clarify what refunds I'm 
awarding and where the refunds Mr B has already received, originated from.
 
Payment 
datePayment 
amountReceiving 
bank Receiving 
bank 
refundCustomer 
liable 
amountBarclays 
refundBarclays 
liability  
24/03/21 £1.40 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £0.16
24/03/21 £1,200 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £192
24/03/21 £850 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £136
25/03/21 £1,400 Bank B 0 50% 50% £700
25/03/21 £1,100 Bank B 0 50% 50% £550
25/03/21 £700 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £112
26/03/21 £1,400 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £224
26/03/21 £1,100 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £176
26/03/21 £450 Bank A 50% 33% 16% £72
27/03/21 £600 Bank C 50% 33% 16% £96
Total loss £8,801.40 £2,258.16
Putting things right
The refund Barclays needs to pay is £2,258.16.
In addition to the refund from Barclays I am recommending 8% simple interest to be added 
from the date of each and all the payments to the date of settlement.
And I'm recommending £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the poor complaint handling and lack of clarity about how it explained its outcome of this 
complaint to Mr B and continued to do so throughout the course of the complaint.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks/ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and my recommendations for 
a partial refund are set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 Sophia Smith
Ombudsman