DRN-3294892
The complaint
Mrs Y complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC about problems she experienced applying for a 
payment holiday on her credit card accounts and their refusal to provide this for one of her 
accounts.
What happened
Mrs Y is assisted in bringing her complaint by a third party. For ease of reference, I shall 
refer to any comments or evidence as being provided by Mrs Y.
Mrs Y holds two credit card accounts with Barclays. 
Her household income had been reduced due to the impact of the global pandemic. So, Mrs 
Y called Barclays in April 2020 to apply for a payment holiday. She said Barclays told her to 
apply either online or using their Barclaycard smart device application. Mrs Y said she was 
unable to complete an application this way. So, she called Barclays again on a number of 
occasions from May 2020. She said each time, her call was on hold for long periods and 
often she was cut off.
Due to her financial situation, Mrs Y cancelled the direct debit payment to one of her 
accounts in June 2020 and continued trying to contact Barclays. She eventually spoke to 
them in August 2020. They agreed to raise a complaint about her experience. Mrs Y 
believes Barclays agreed to place her accounts on hold while this was investigated, with no 
further direct debit payments claimed until her complaint was resolved.
In September, her remaining active direct debit payment was claimed as normal. Barclays 
responded to Mrs Ys complaint in a letter at the end of September. They apologised for any 
problems Mrs Y experienced and said that any call issues were likely as a direct result of the 
impact of the global pandemic. Barclays thought this was not within their control.
Barclays went on to say that Mrs Y could still apply for a payment holiday, but this needed to 
be before the end of October 2020. So, Mrs Y called them, and an application was 
completed and agreed for one of her accounts, but not the other. That account was passed 
to Barclays Specialist Support Team to manage.
Mrs Y was unhappy with Barclays response to her complaint. She didnt think Barclays had 
treated her fairly and shouldve agreed payment holidays on both accounts sooner. She 
thought Barclays should refund the interest and fees on both her accounts from April 2020 
and pay compensation of £500. She also thought Barclays should remove any missed 
payments reported on her credit file. She decided to refer matters to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ys complaint. She didnt think Barclays had acted 
fairly in the way theyd supported Mrs Y. Our adjudicator thought Barclays shouldve 
responded to Mrs Ys payment holiday request as soon as she complained in August 2020. 
She also thought Barclays couldve been clearer about their reasons for handling Mrs Ys 
two accounts differently. Our adjudicator thought Barclays should pay compensation to Mrs 
Y of £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by this. But she didnt 
agree with the levels of compensation sought by Mrs Y.
Barclays accepted our adjudicators findings and recommendations. But Mrs Y remained 
unhappy. She thought Barclays shouldve provided payment holidays on both accounts 
when she first tried to apply. Mrs Y has also referenced further problems experienced after 
her complaint was referred to this service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ys complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to provide some clarity around the scope of the complaint Im able to 
consider and, therefore, the extent of my decision. Mrs Y referred her complaint to this 
service late in 2020. The basis of that complaint is summarised above. Subsequent events 
and concerns raised by Mrs Y about Barclays, are subject to separate investigation and 
response by Barclays. Barclays have asked that this complaint should be considered 
separately by this service to mirror their own investigations and responses.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Mrs Y said she first contacted Barclays in April 2020. Barclays have no record of this, or that 
any payment deferral application was completed. Ive reviewed all their file notes and 
records and Im also unable to find any record of an application. So, while Ive no reason to 
doubt Mrs Ss recollections, it appears clear that an application wasnt completed.
Mrs Y has two credit card accounts. Ill refer to these as account A and account B. Mrs Y 
continued to make the required monthly repayments to account A by direct debit. But, due to 
her financial circumstances, she cancelled the direct debit to account B in June 2020. 
Mrs B eventually spoke to Barclays in August 2020 when her complaint was raised. Barclays 
notes confirm this. So, while I appreciate that Barclays wanted to investigate matters, I think 
they shouldve considered Mrs Y payment deferral applications at that point. Instead, 
Barclays didnt process applications until October 2020.
Barclays did agree a three-month payment deferral on account A from October to December 
2020. I understand this was later extended by a further three months to March 2021. So, I 
think Barclays met their obligations under the FCAs guidance. But they declined a payment 
deferral on account B. This was because arrears already existed on this account due to Mrs 
Ys cancellation of the payment direct debit. She hadnt made any payments since May 
2020. The FCAs guidance stresses that a payment deferral shouldnt be used where there 
are existing arrears. Here, their existing forbearance rules and guidance should be applied. 
Barclays assessed and agreed a reduced payment plan for account B. This appears to meet 
with the forbearance rules set by the FCA.
While I accept that Barclays may have been able to act sooner on Mrs Ys request, until a 
payment deferral has been agreed and communicated, Mrs Y would still be required to make 
her contractual payments. Unfortunately, cancelling her direct debit meant she wasnt 
eligible for a payment deferral on account B as this account was already in arrears.I realise Mrs Y will be disappointed, but in the absence of any other evidence, I cant support 
her assertion that Barclays should back date a payment deferral to April 2020. But they have 
since agreed the maximum term of support under the FCAs guidance in respect of account 
A. So, whilst delayed, Mrs Y has benefitted from this.
Since referring her complaint to this service, Barclays have contacted Mrs Y regarding 
account B. As a gesture of goodwill, theyve retrospectively applied a payment deferral to 
this account between July and September 2020. Theyve also refunded all interest charged 
during that period and removed any late payments reported on her credit file. 
Mrs Y had previously told Barclays that her situation was likely to continue for six months or 
more. This meant they wouldnt have been in a position to extend the deferral on account B 
for a further three months. This is because the FCAs guidance suggests deferrals should 
only be agreed for temporary payment problems. This is generally considered to be where 
any problems are expected to have been resolved within the term of the payment deferral. 
This wouldnt have been the case here.
Mrs Y wants Barclays to refund all interest and charges since April 2020. Under the FCAs 
payment deferral guidance, Barclays arent required to stop charging interest. So, I cant 
reasonably ask them to do that here. 
Mrs Y also said that when she raised her complaint in August 2020, Barclays agreed to 
place her accounts on hold while they investigated her complaint. Having looked at all of 
Barclays file notes, I can find no evidence to support this. 
Our adjudicator thought Barclays should pay Mrs Y £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Barclays delay in addressing her needs in August 2020. I think this 
amount feels fair in the circumstances here and reflects the fact Barclays didnt address Mrs 
Ys payment deferral request promptly at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation of £100 to Mrs Y.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman