DRN-1272062
Complaint
Mr F says Stagemount Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Stagemount provided to Mr F in August 2018 
and May 2019. The first loan was for £400 and was repayable in six monthly instalments 
of £133.32. The second loan was for £500 and was repayable in six monthly instalments 
of £145.56.
An adjudicator considered Mr F's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr F 
disagreed with the adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Stagemount needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Stagemount says it carried out an income and expenditure check and a credit history check 
before lending to Mr F.
For loan one, Stagemount says Mr F declared a net monthly income of £1,900 and total 
expenditure of £760. For loan two, the income figure was £2,100 and the total expenditure 
figure £680.
Stagemount has said it significantly increased Mr F's expenditure from what he declared, 
based on the information it discovered from its credit checks. Stagemount says the credit 
check showed Mr F had monthly credit commitments of £1,103 at the time of loan one 
and £445 at the time of loan two. The credit commitment figures provided by Mr F were £450 
for loan one and £445 for loan two.
It's clear that at the time of loan one, Mr F had significant existing credit commitments. 
Stagemount identified nine credit accounts, including two 'advance against income' accounts 
and three unsecured loans. But it seems it took these into account before lending to Mr F 
and substituting the £1,103 figure for the figure Mr F declared still left him with (by 
Stagemount's estimation) almost £500 of income from which he could make the monthly 
repayments of £133. As this was Mr F's first loan with Stagemount, I don't think it was unreasonable for it to think 
this loan was sustainably affordable for him. I appreciate Mr F's point that the outgoings 
requested by Stagemount were narrow categories (rent, credit commitments, utilities and 
'other') but I think those were proportionate questions to ask for what was Mr F's first loan.
At the time of loan two, Stagemount's credit checks revealed a figure much closer to the 
figure for credit commitments Mr F declared. And none of the credit commitments from the 
credit check were in the 'advance against income' (i.e. payday loan) category. In addition, 
nine months had passed and Mr F's income had increased and his credit commitments 
significantly reduced. Based on all the information Stagemount obtained, the loan appeared 
to be sustainably affordable and, again, I don't think Stagemount acted unreasonably by 
approving it.
I've noted that Mr F has made reference to being referred to Stagemount by another lender 
he'd previously used, this time acting as a credit broker. I don't think that makes a difference 
to the outcome of Mr F's complaint. I wouldn't have expected the broker to provide 
Stagemount with any more information than needed in its capacity as a broker - and I don't 
think that would include providing details of any loans it may have previously agreed for
Mr F. In addition, I think Stagemount acted fairly and reasonably by relying both on the 
information it obtained from Mr F and from the credit reference agencies. 
I also think the County Court Judgements Mr F mentioned were dated long enough before 
the loans that it wouldn't have been proportionate for Stagemount to automatically decide to 
not lend to Mr F, or to ask him for more detailed financial information such as copies of his 
bank statements.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman