DRN-1811186
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2004 
alongside a credit card. Mrs C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mrs C, Capital One had to make it clear the policy was optional. 
It also had to get Mrs Cs agreement to take it out. Mrs C says the PPI wasnt explained to 
her properly.
Capital Ones records show that Mrs C took out the credit card via a postal application, 
and Ive seen the application form she completed at that time. The form had a separate 
section relating to additional products and I can see Mrs C didnt select PPI at this stage. 
Instead it was sold to Mrs C some time later when she called Capital One to activate her 
new credit card.
Capital One hasnt been able to give us a recording of the phone call, which isnt suprising 
given how long ago the call took place. But it has shown us a copy of the script it says its call 
handlers were required to follow at the time Mrs C bought her PPI. I think the script makes it 
clear that the PPI is an optional product, and prompts the call handler to ask for the 
consumers consent before adding PPI onto the account. With my understanding of how 
Capital One generally sold PPI, I think the script Ive seen is likely reflective of what would 
have been said to Mrs C.
So with all this in mind, I think its more likely Capital One made it clear that Mrs C had a 
choice about taking the PPI, and I think she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And Mrs C 
didnt have any other means of covering the card repayments if she was unwell or lost her 
job.
So it looks like the PPI would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, but for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think Capital One needs to do anything more to resolve her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
 
 
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman