DRN-3790628
The complaint
Mr I complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly defaulted 
his account whilst he was impacted by Covid-19.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr I found himself in financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, he 
contacted Amex about his platinum credit card payments and Amex agreed a payment 
holiday between April and July 2020.
In August 2020, Mr I was still unable to make the required payments. Amex sent a final 
demand in September 2020 and terminated the agreement in October 2020. Amex said they 
would take steps to register the default status with the credit reference agencies and then 
passed the account to a debt recovery agency called company A.
Mr I was unhappy about the impact on his credit file and having to deal with Company A. Mr 
I also says he was made redundant, suffering from Covid-19 and unable to find work.
Company A agreed payment breaks between November 2020 and January 2021, however 
declined a continuation. They say this is because they were unable to discuss Mr Is income 
and expenditure and couldnt agree a payment plan.
In March 2021, Company A passed Mr Is account to another debt recovery agency called 
Company B. However, Company B registered a default to Mr Is account on 28 March 2021. 
Mr I was dissatisfied and complained to Amex. He said he was suffering from long Covid-19 
and was under the impression his account wouldnt be defaulted until he was better.
Amex didnt uphold the complaint and Mr I complained to our service as he felt that his 
account was unfairly defaulted. 
Our investigator thought Amex had acted fairly and the default couldnt be avoided.
As Mr I remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking Amex to take any further action.
As Mr I was severely impacted by Covid-19, I first considered the support offered by Amex 
together with business guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The FCA said that customers could have payment holidays for a period of up to three 
months and the business could agree to this twice. In addition, a third set of guidance issued 
by the FCA explained that consumers who had had two lots of three month payment 
holidays but whom might still be experiencing financial difficulty because of the impact of 
Covid-19, should continue to be given ongoing financial assistance by credit providers, such 
as Amex, following the end of the second three month payment holiday. 
So, although I could see that Amex had applied a payment holiday, I think they couldve 
given Mr I more time before taking suspension and termination action. However, when 
considering the overall timeframe and the fact that Company A subsequently gave additional 
payment holidays and the default wasnt processed until March 2021, Im satisfied that Mr I 
was given the type of financial assistance recommended by the FCA. 
Also, businesses have responsibility to report arrears to credit reference agencies and there 
is evidence, in the form of letters and file notes, that Amex and both Company A and B made 
attempts to speak to Mr I before taking action. 
In addition, I can see Amex waived membership fees and both Amex and Company A tried 
to support Mr I with a financial hardship support programme and payment plans. However, 
system notes show they had difficulty getting responses from Mr I and he wasnt willing to 
discuss either the support programme or his income and expenditure. Furthermore, when a 
payment plan was agreed with Company B the first payment was unfortunately missed.
Finally, I could see evidence that Mr I was informed that a default would be registered on his 
credit file. I could also see evidence, in the form of letters and file notes, that Mr I was 
informed that non-payment would result in a default being registered. So, I cant see that an 
error was made. And, considering Amex s support and communications together with Mr Is 
payment record, Im satisfied the default action was fair and reasonable. 
Also, Amex acted within the terms and conditions of the account that Mr I agreed to and, 
whilst I sympathise with Mr Is difficult circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to ask Amex to hold 
an account open indefinitely without payment. 
In summary, I havent seen anything which suggests Amex have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here and I dont think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman