DRN-4209861
The complaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of four buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr B holds with 
Mortgage Express (ME). The mortgages were taken out in 2006, jointly with Mr Bs then 
wife. In 2017 as a consequence of Mr B getting divorced, the mortgages were transferred 
to his sole name. The dispute here is about when the mortgages should be due for 
repayment. ME believes theyre all due for repayment at various dates in 2023; Mr B has 
variously argued that the mortgages should be due for repayment in 2024, or in 2031.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 12 June 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the 
evidence in the case is detailed, running to nearly 800 pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that there are also a lot of duplicated documents 
and repetition of arguments. 
In what follows, I have set out events in rather less detail than they have been 
presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This 
approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and 
not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my 
opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own 
words (and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
The mortgage were all taken out in 2006, secured on properties Ill refer to as 2PG, 
10PG, 5HG and 17BM. In all four cases, the original mortgage term was given as 
25 years, meaning theyd all be due for repayment in 2031. In 2016, as part of 
divorce proceedings, Mr B and ME discussed the mortgages being transferred to 
his sole name. ME was agreeable to this, but wanted the mortgage terms to be 
reduced. An amendment deed was drawn up specifying the following mortgage 
term end dates:
2PG: 5 May 2023;
10PG 23 November 2023;
5HG 16 June 2023;
17BM 11 September 2023.
The amendment deed document I have seen isnt dated (it isnt signed either) but 
based on other documentation that was issued later, I estimate that it was drawn up 
around April 2016.
The transfers didnt proceed immediately; it wasnt until April 2017 that ME issued 
formal offers for the four transfers of equity. The offers were each accompanied by 
an illustration setting out the expected duration of the amended mortgage. These 
were as follows:
2PG: six years, one month;
10PG: six years, seven months;
5HG: six years, two months; 
17BM: six years, five months.
Each mortgage offer also included the following clause:
Term (secured amount)
The term shall be the same as the remaining term of the existing loan as at the date 
of completion of the transaction (as defined at paragraph 12).
Paragraph 12 of the offer says:
Completion shall be deemed to take place when your conveyancer/solicitor 
completes the Transfer Deed (or if the Property is in Scotland, the Deed of 
Variation.
On 4 October 2017, Mr Bs solicitor wrote to ME to confirm the transfers were ready 
to execute but specified they should not be sealed until ME had first confirmed that 
once it had completed the term will revert to the agreed 7 years. In an email dated 
24 October 2017, ME confirmed that once all paperwork had been executed, The 
Mortgage Terms will be amended to remaining 7 years as agreed. 
In 2022, Mr B complained that ME had set the mortgage terms up wrongly; in a final 
response dated 19 June 2022, ME agreed that the original terms had been for 25 
years from 2006, but that as a condition of the transfers to his name in 2017, he had 
agreed to reduced terms as follows:
2PG: 1 June 2023;
10PG 1 December 2023;
5HG 1 July 2023;
17BM 1 October 2023.
When Mr B referred the complaint to us, he said he had been expecting the 
mortgages to run until the end of the original terms agreed in 2006, i.e. until 2031. 
When we drew his attention to his solicitors letters of October 2017 asking for 
confirmation that the terms would be set at seven years, Mr B said he hadnt seen 
those previously. But he then adopted that position, arguing that the terms should 
be for seven years, running from the date the transfers to his sole name took effect. 
His solicitor had told him this was 12 December 2017, so Mr Bs position became 
that the mortgages should all run until 12 December 2024.
Assembling all of the evidence in this case was painstaking and difficult. Even when 
it was all to hand, faced with so much conflicting and contradictory information, our investigator was genuinely unsure about how she should recommend it be resolved. 
Each time she proposed what she considered to be a fair outcome, one or other of 
the parties would say something that hadnt seen said before, or send something 
that hadnt been sent before. 
Eventually after weighing everything up, the investigator issued an updated view of 
the case on 27 April 2023. In this, she proposed a compromise whereby the terms 
of the mortgages should be as specified in the illustrations that accompanied the 
mortgage offers of 5 April 2017, and should run from 12 December 2017. This 
would produce new mortgage end dates as follows:
2PG: 12 January 2024;
10PG 12 July 2024;
5HG 12 February 2024;
17BM 12 May 2024.
The investigator also said ME should pay Mr B £200 for the inconvenience caused 
by having misled him. 
ME agreed to pay Mr B the £200 but argued that the current mortgage end dates 
were already correct because they ran from the dates of the illustrations. After 
further consideration, ME said it was willing to accept the investigators 
recommendation, and proposed to amend the mortgage end dates as follows:
2PG: 1 January 2024;
10PG 1 July 2024;
5HG 1 March 2024;
17BM 1 May 2024.
Mr B said all four mortgages should run for seven years from 12 December 2017, in 
accordance with what his solicitor agreed with ME, which would mean all four 
ending on 12 December 2024. With no sign of the parties being able to reach 
common ground, the case has come to me to review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much 
weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual 
documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on 
the whole picture. In this case, Ive largely discounted what was said in the various 
telephone conversations between ME and Mr B from time to time. In my view, the 
written material carries more weight, notwithstanding the contradictory nature of it.Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
In reaching my decision, I will have regard for the law and good industry practice 
where relevant, but my overarching responsibility is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That can sometime mean reaching a different 
outcome from what might prevail in court.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA); nor are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute 
resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their 
customer to resolve their differences. We deal with individual disputes  when were 
able to  subject to rules laid down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP Rules). 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, what follows are my provisional conclusions and the reasons for 
them.
What is ultimately to be decided here is when Mr Bs BTL mortgages should end; i.e. 
when they should fall due for repayment. It may seem obvious, but the end date of a 
mortgage is, all other things being equal, a function of two things; The start date and 
the duration.
MEs initial position that all the mortgages end at different dates in 2023 is clearly 
flawed. Thats because it set the mortgage end dates up in its system based on a 
start date of 5 April 2017, the date the mortgage offers and illustrations were issued. 
Taking into account what the mortgage offer specifies at clause 12, the start date has 
to have been 12 December 2017. ME has now accepted that, but it really should 
have done so as soon as the complaint was raised.
Having established when the start date should be, Ive next considered what the 
duration of the four mortgages should be. Ill deal first with Mr Bs argument that it 
should be seven years. It has a certain superficial appeal, in that it represents the last 
comment between the parties (or in Mr Bs case, the partys representative) before 
the transfers took effect on 12 December 2017. 
However, a seven-year term isnt something that appears in any of the written 
documentation. I think our investigator was right to characterise it as a generality, not 
least because the reply from the business includes the qualifier as agreed, and as I 
have demonstrated above, its near-impossible to establish with any confidence 
exactly what was agreed.
Also, by his own evidence, Mr B was unaware of this exchange until we told him 
about it, so cant have relied on it or made any plans or decisions based on it. It 
seems to me that Mr B most likely adopted this new position as a matter of 
expediency, in that it would improve his situation by giving him more time to repay the 
debts. Overall, Im not satisfied theres a persuasive argument to determine the 
complaint on that basis.
That then takes me to the investigators recommendation that the mortgage end 
dates be set by taking the durations from the illustrations that accompanied the offers, 
and having them run from 12 December 2017. The reasoning behind the investigators approach was that the offers included the following narrative, on page 
two.
Our Offer is made up of this Offer and the enclosed Mortgage Illustration.
This has far more merit to it than the respective positions claimed by ME and Mr B. 
However, theres more still to consider. The offers also included the following 
narrative, on page one.
The loan amount, loan term, number of instalments and amount of each instalment 
shown in the attached Mortgage Illustration is correct only for the date on which the 
Mortgage Illustration was produced.
Ive thought very hard indeed about whether its fair to take the loan term and number 
of instalments which were quoted on  and only valid for  5 April 2017 and apply 
them run from 12 December 2017. If the mortgage offer (including the illustrations) 
contained no other information about the duration of the mortgages, Id be inclined to 
agree that, in the absence of anything else on which to rely, the mortgages starting 
on 12 December 2017 should run for the durations given in the illustrations. 
But in Mr Bs case, there is something else on which to rely. In all four cases, the 
mortgage offer issued on 5 April 2017 said, on page one, under the heading Term 
(secured amount) that the term shall be the same as the remaining term of the 
existing loan as at the date of completion of the transaction (as defined at paragraph 
12).
In my view, the primary document is the offer itself; the mortgage illustration is an 
appendix to it. If the two are in conflict, I consider it fair to attach more weight to what 
the offer document says. I say that not least because the information in the mortgage 
illustrations was only valid for the day they were produced, whereas the mortgage 
offers were valid for six months, i.e. until 5 November 2017. 
That being the case, if ME required Mr B to be bound by the mortgage end dates in 
2023 it wanted to impose, it should have issued new offers on or very soon after 
5 November 2017. Those offers would have needed to be accompanied by a fresh 
mortgage illustrations specifying amended loan terms and numbers of instalments, 
and the offers themselves would have to needed to be otherwise silent on the 
duration of the mortgages. 
Insofar as ME didnt do that, it allowed the mortgage to go through on 
12 December 2017 based on what was set out in the 5 April 2017 mortgage offers, 
minus what was said in the 5 April 2017 mortgage illustrations. Put all of the above 
together, and the conclusion I am currently proposing to reach is that Mr Bs four BTL 
mortgages should all run until the end of the original 25-year terms that began in 
2006.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; 
both have responded, confirming that they accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with no further substantive arguments or evidence to consider, I wont be changing my 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mortgage Express must:
amend the expiry dates of Mr Bs BTL mortgage so that they end on the dates in 
2031 that mark the 25th anniversaries of the original start dates in 2006; and
pay Mr B £200 compensation for his time, trouble and upset
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman