DRN-2473612
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt help him when his car broke 
down and he claimed on his roadside assistance insurance policy. Hes also complained 
about the level of service he got on the phone when he claimed. 
For ease of reading any reference to Admiral includes its agents.  
What happened
In April 2020 Mr T was driving from the UK to Romania. On the way Mr Ts car broke down 
when he was in Belgium, so he called Admiral for assistance. Mr Ts car was moved to a 
local garage for repair and Admiral arranged a hotel for the night for Mr T and his passenger. 
At the time of the breakdown the UK was in the first national lockdown because of the Covid-
19 pandemic. Because of the pandemic most of Europe had also been affected and 
businesses were unable to operate as they normally would. The garage Mr Ts car was 
taken to said it would take a week to repair the car. Because of the pandemic Admiral was 
unable to easily find a hire car for Mr T. Admiral offered to arrange for Mr T, his passenger 
and his car repatriated to the UK. 
Mr T said this wasnt good enough, he said the policy says he would be provided with a hire 
car. He wanted Admiral to provide one so he could continue his journey to Romania. Admiral 
said this was difficult normally as the car would be left in a different country and that because 
of the pandemic it wasnt able to get a hire car. Mr T said he found a car in the Netherlands, 
but it would cost €4,000. Admiral said if Mr T could find a hire car then it would reimburse 
him up to the value of £1,000. As this was less than Mr T had found a car for, he said 
Admiral should pay for the cost of the car he found and complained.
Admiral looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had repatriated Mr Ts car 
back to the UK and as it wasnt able to find a hire car which could be used to drive to 
Romania thought that its offer, of up £1,000 towards one, was fair and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Admiral also said that as it couldnt listen to all the calls between Mr T 
and its agents that it would pay £50 compensation to apologise if anything wasnt done 
correctly. Mr T didnt agree and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found 
that because of the Covid-19 pandemic Admiral was unable to arrange a hire car for Mr T. 
He also found that Admiral had offered the cash equivalent as outlined in the policy and had 
repatriated Mr Ts car back to the UK. 
Mr T didnt agree, he said the policy doesnt mention about a pandemic so Admiral should 
provide the service outlined in the policy irrespective of the pandemic and if it cant it 
shouldnt have been operating. 
As Mr T didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy say if his car breaks down in Europe, Admiral will 
send assistance who will try and repair his car at the roadside. If this isnt possible then his 
car will be taken to the nearest repairer. If the car cant be repaired by the departure date or 
within 48 hours Admiral will repatriate his car back to his home address, or if its closer and 
Mr T prefers, then onto his destination address.  
The policy terms also say Admiral will provide overnight accommodation for one night where 
Mr Ts car cant be repaired the same day. And where possible will also provide a hire car or 
up to £1,000 towards one to enable Mr T to continue with his journey. 
When Mr Ts car broke down, I can see Admiral arranged for his car to be taken to a garage 
for repair and a hotel for the night, as Mr Ts destination was almost 2,000km away. As the 
garage was unable to repair his car for a week Admiral offered to have it repatriated to the 
UK along with Mr T and his passenger. Mr T refused to be taken to the UK as he was 
heading to Romania and didnt have an expected return date at the time. Admiral looked for 
a hire car he could use, but because of the Covid-19 pandemic, was unable to locate one for 
him so offered up to £1,000 towards one. 
I understand Mr T found a car in the Netherlands which he paid €4,000 for, so he could 
continue his journey. Ive also considered Mr Ts comments about the pandemic not being 
mentioned in the policy terms. Having done so Im not persuaded Admiral has done anything 
wrong in this particular complaint. 
I say that because Admiral has done what its supposed to under the terms of the policy by 
having Mr Ts car moved to a garage for repair and then to the UK when it couldnt be 
repaired. Admiral also offered to have Mr T and his passenger returned to the UK or pay up 
to £1,000 towards a hire car if Mr T could find one. While I understand Mr T found a 
replacement car in the Netherlands Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to ask Admiral 
to pay for this. This is because the fact Mr T had to go to the Netherlands supports Admirals 
comments that it couldnt find a hire car for Mr T to continue his journey. So, by offering the 
cash equivalent, as stated in the policy, Im satisfied Admiral did what it needed to.  
Ive also considered Mr Ts points about how the calls were handled. Having done so Im 
satisfied Admirals offer of £50 is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience the 
calls caused Mr T, as I havent seen enough to persuade me Admiral acted unreasonably 
during those calls.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman