The complaint
Ms T complains that a transfer she made from her HSBC UK Bank Plc account didn't reach 
the beneficiary. 
What happened
On 3 October 2019 Ms T visited a branch of HSBC to transfer £3,000 to an account abroad. 
As part of the transfer process HSBC printed out the details of the transfer, including the 
beneficiary's details and destination account information. Ms T signed the transfer 
information provided to confirm it was correct and HSBC sent the funds. 
On 4 October 2019 Ms T spoke with HSBC and noted the account details used the previous 
day were wrong. On 7 October 2019 HSBC sent a message to the intermediary bank that 
had sent the funds onto the beneficiary's bank to say there was a mistake. 
Over the following weeks Ms T continued to contact HSBC to check whether her funds had 
been located and returned. HSBC sent messages to the beneficiary bank via the 
intermediary but hasn't been successful in getting Ms T's money back. 
Ms T complained and HSBC responded on 10 December 2019. HSBC accepted some of the 
service Ms T had received had been poor. HSBC apologised and paid Ms T £100. But 
HSBC said Ms T had provided the information it used to process the transfer and signed to 
confirm the details were correct. HSBC said it had tried to get Ms T's money back but hadn't 
been successful. 
Ms T referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought HSBC had acted in line with the instructions provided by Ms T and made reasonable 
efforts to try and get her money back. Ms T asked to appeal so her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms T is upset. She sent a lot of money to an account in a different 
country and hasn't been able to reclaim it. There are various parties involved in this case, 
but my role is to look at the actions of HSBC and decide whether they led to Ms T's funds 
going missing. 
HSBC says that when a transfer of this nature is instructed in branch it prints out the 
beneficiary details and account information provided for the customer to check before 
sending. HSBC says that step is intended to avoid funds going astray. In this case, HSBC 
has forwarded a copy of the International Payment Confirmation Advice. I can see Ms T 
DRN-1640551signed the form on 3 October 2019 to confirm the details were correct. Whilst I understand 
there was an incorrect digit, I'm satisfied HSBC acted in line with the instructions it was 
given. 
As the funds were sent in line with HSBC's instructions, I haven't found an error was made 
when the transfer was made. I've gone on to look at whether HSBC did enough to try and 
get Ms T's money back. 
HSBC says Ms T notified it of the error after business hours had ended on 4 October 2019, a 
Friday. HSBC sent a message to the intermediary bank on the next working day, 7 October 
2019. I've seen all the messages HSBC has sent when trying to recover Ms T's money. I 
appreciate HSBC hasn't been successful, but it has sent multiple messages over the course 
of several months. Unfortunately, until the beneficiary bank responds or returns the funds 
there is little HSBC can do. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Ms T but I'm satisfied HSBC did make reasonable attempts to recover 
her money. 
Whilst I understand my decision will feel harsh to Ms T, I'm satisfied HSBC acted in line with 
the payment instructions it received. HSBC paid Ms T £100 because of the service she 
received while trying to recover her funds. I can see there were some issues, so I'm pleased 
HSBC has awarded some compensation. I think £100 is reasonable in light of the service 
provided and that HSBC has dealt with Ms T's complaint fairly. As a result, I'm not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman