DRN-4525823
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined to refund her in full when 
she lost approximately £4,900 as a result of a scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 to explain why I thought Miss Gs 
complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not go into 
every detail of what happened here. But, in summary, in October 2021 Miss G was tricked 
into sending approximately £4,900 as the result of an impersonation scam.
In October 2021, Miss G explained she received a text purporting to be from a well-known 
delivery company advising her that she needed to pay £1.40 for re-delivery of a parcel. She 
was expecting a parcel from the delivery company at the time, so this text message seemed 
credible to her. She followed a link within the text which took her to what appeared to be the 
delivery companys website, and so she entered the relevant details to make the payment of 
£1.40.
Miss G received a phone call three days later purporting to be from Santander. They told her 
that someone had breached the security on her account and was trying to make payments 
and asked her if she could think of how this could have happened. Miss G said she 
mentioned the delivery company text and they told her this was a common scam, and it was 
likely how her account had been accessed. They asked if she had any other accounts, and
when she confirmed she had savings with another bank they said this account could be at
risk too. This caused Miss G to panic that she might lose her money. Santander persuaded
her to move her money from her savings to her Santander account. They said they were
creating an account in a randomly generated name for her to use to safeguard her funds.
They said it had to be a randomly generated name to prevent the scammer from gaining
further access to her funds. They told her to send her funds, which by now included her
savings, in three instalments because otherwise she would not be able to transfer all of her
money across and then she would lose it all to the scammer. She sent the first two, but the
third was blocked.
Miss G realised she had fallen victim to a scam when she received a call from the real
Santander, which prompted her to look up the phone number that had called her online and
saw that other people had reported it was a scam phone number. She spoke to Santander 
and explained what had happened, and they confirmed she had indeed fallen victim to a
scam.
Santander investigated what had happened and offered to refund 50% of the payments Miss
G made to the scammer. In summary, they did not think Miss G had established that she
had met the requisite level of care when she was making the payments  but they did accept
they had not given her an effective warning when she was making the payments. They also
said the CRM signatory receiving bank was not liable here. When Santander contacted them
there was only approximately £6 remaining in the receiving account, which was returned to
Miss G.
Miss G was unhappy that Santander declined to refund more of her losses so she asked our
service to investigate her complaint. One of our investigators looked into what had
happened, and they thought that Santanders offer was fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. They agreed that Miss G did not have a reasonable basis for believing that
the payments were going to Santander. Miss G did not agree. Her representatives
responded on her behalf and said, in summary:
Miss G said she believed she was talking to her bank as they sounded very 
professional and friendly, had normal disclaimers such as saying that the call was 
being recorded for training and security purposes and called from on 0800 number. 
She explained that they also took her through usual security questions, spoke to her 
for about half an hour and even gave her advice on fraud and scams and how to 
avoid falling victim to them in the future and pretended to go through the process of 
ordering a new card for her.
The scammer went above and beyond to make the call mirror a genuine call from 
Santander  there was even background noise as if they were in an office and hold 
music when she had to be put on hold. She was not aware that she could be talking 
to a scammer as they had done such a sophisticated job at appearing legitimate. 
This gave Miss G a reasonable basis for believing she was talking to Santander.
The scammer was able to create a real sense of urgency during the call. This led to 
significant panic within Miss G, making her truly believe that time was of the essence 
and that if she did not do what she was told she could lose her money to a scammer.
These factors mitigate the fact she didnt think to look up the number that was calling 
her online sooner.
There were published final decisions from our service with very similar circumstances 
in which we found that customers did have a reasonable basis for believing that they 
were speaking with their banks.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am minded to reach a
different outcome to our investigator, Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether
Santander should reimburse some or all of the money Miss G lost in line with the provisions 
of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to
protect Miss G from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM Code
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets out standards that
banks, such as Santander, are expected to meet in terms of protecting their customers fromfinancial harm. As a starting point, a customer should receive a full refund if they fall victim to
an authorised push payment scam such as this one.
There appears to be no dispute that Miss G was the victim of an authorised push payment
scam here. She thought she was moving her money to keep it safe on Santanders advice,
but instead it went to a scammer. But, Miss G would not be entitled to a full refund if
Santander can fairly and reasonably demonstrate, as they have asserted, that Miss G has
failed to meet the requisite level of care under one of more of the listed exceptions set out in
the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made;
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Did Miss G have a reasonable basis for belief?
It is for banks to show that it would be appropriate to invoke an exception to refunding in full
under the code  and I am not minded to say that Santander have demonstrated this here. I
do think there are some clear checks that could or should have been done by Miss G with
the benefit of hindsight  checking the phone number and questioning why she had to move
money from an account with another bank to her unsafe Santander account for example. But
when considering the complexity and sophistication of the scam, I am minded to conclude
that Miss G acted reasonably when she fell victim to the scam. Ill explain why.
This scam had more than one step to it  it started with a text message claiming to 
be from a delivery company which tricked Miss G in to parting with a small amount of 
money, before moving onto what is known as a safe account scam. This meant that 
when Miss G received a call purporting to be from Santander, it would have 
appeared more plausible that it was her bank. They were able to seem like they were 
calling to help her and appeared to work with her to try and work out how her account 
and details had been compromised. It seems reasonable that this would have added 
a level of credibility to the person calling her that may not have been there if they had 
just appeared to cold call her. 
In addition to this, the scammer had done a number of things at the start of the call 
which would have made the phone call sound realistic. They mimicked procedures 
which banks would follow in phone calls including going through security procedures 
and telling her the phone call was being recorded for monitoring and security 
purposes. They called from an 0800 number rather than a withheld or mobile 
number. She said that they also sounded like they were calling from a call centre due 
to background noises. I think that these elements would have made Miss G less 
likely to question the authenticity of the caller  as nothing would have stood out as 
unusual when compared to a normal phone call she might have had with her bank. 
The phone call continued for quite some time  this gave the scammer time to build  
up trust with Miss G before they convinced her to move funds out of her account. In 
this time Miss G reports that they appeared to sound professional and friendly. They 
educated her on avoiding falling victim to scams in the future and even pretended to 
order her a new card  in line with what one might expect from their genuine bank. 
They were able to use this trust to persuade Miss G that they were a professional 
and that the safest thing she could do was to follow their instructions.
Furthermore, given the sense of panic that the situation had instilled in Miss G, I do 
not think she would be thinking as clearly as we can with the benefit of hindsight. I do 
appreciate that if she had gone online and searched for the phone number which had 
called her, she may have been able to prevent the scam. I also know with the benefit of hindsight that it seems strange that she would be asked to move money into her 
Santander account from her savings to send on  particularly since she had been 
persuaded that her Santander account was not safe. But I also think that she 
believed she was talking to her own bank for the reasons outlined above  and she 
had seen they called from an 0800 number so she did not think anything stood out 
as suspicious about the number that called her. The scam was sophisticated, and the 
scammer clearly managed to build both trust and panic. It seems that they were able 
to convince her that they were trying to help her - so in the moment, I can understand 
why she did not think to question what she was being told she had to do. Her priority 
in these moments was safeguarding her money, and so she trusted that her bank 
could help her do this.
I am minded to say that Santander have not persuaded me that Miss Gs actions amounted
to her acting unreasonably here  and so it follows that they should not have declined to
refund part of her claim under the code under this exception.
Did Miss G ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made?
In line with provisions of the Code, Santander needs to be on the lookout for factors that
might indicate an enhanced risk that Miss Gs payment instructions were being made as part
of a scam. Where they identify such a risk, they need to take reasonable steps to provide the
customer with an effective warning. If such a warning is provided, and their customer ignores
it, there may be an exception to the starting position of a full refund under the Code.
Santander, by their own admission, did not provide an effective warning to Miss G in this
case. I agree this is the case  and so I am minded to say that they have not demonstrated
that any exception to refunding Miss G in full under the code applies here.
Recovery
For completeness, I have also considered whether Santander could have done more to try to
recover the money once they had been told of the scam. I would expect a business to take
reasonable steps to try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Santander did
try to recover the funds Miss G sent to the receiving bank  and were able to evidence that
they had contacted the bank within less than an hour of Miss G reporting the scam. The
receiving bank got in touch to say they had secured the remaining funds which were
returned to Miss G. They were able to recover £5.76 from the receiving account. So, I dont
think Santander could have done more to recover Miss Gs losses from the receiving bank
here.

My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Miss G should fairly and reasonably have all her remaining 
losses refunded to her plus interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs representatives responded to say they accepted my provisional findings. Santander 
did not respond to my provisional decision. So, as neither party has given me any new 
information to consider, my decision is as outlined above in the extract from my provisional 
decision. I think that Santander have not shown that any exceptions to a full refund under the 
CRM Code was due to Miss G. So Santander should have refunded Miss G in full under the 
CRM Code. Putting things right
Santander should have refunded Miss G in full under the CRM Code, and as such if nothing 
changes I will be asking them to:
- Refund any remaining losses Miss G suffered as a result of the scam 
- Pay 8% simple interest on those remaining losses, from the date that her claim was 
declined (in part) under the Code.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander to refund Miss Gs 
remaining losses plus interest, as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman