DRN-1778851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of their legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
Although this complaint refers to a joint policy, for ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to 
Mrs R.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In September 2019 Mrs R made a claim to Amtrust. 
She was in dispute with a private school over the payment of fees. Mrs R had removed her 
children from the school due to serious concerns she had about the education and service 
they were receiving. The school was pursuing Mrs R for outstanding fees that they said were 
due. The school said Mrs R had failed to give the correct amount of notice prior to 
withdrawing her children.  
Amtrust referred the claim to one of their panel solicitors, M, for a prospects assessment -
which was a requirement for cover under the policy. Mrs R made M aware that the other side 
had given her a deadline of 4pm on 31 October 2019 to respond. She received Ms 
assessment around 15 minutes after the deadline had passed. The assessment concluded 
that, at that time, Mrs Rs claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
Mrs R made offers to settle with the school which were rejected. Mrs R believes the delays 
involved in the handling of her claim prejudiced her legal position and in combination with 
other poor service she received from both M and Amtrust  resulted in her having to pay the 
school fees to avoid a County Court Judgement.
Mrs R complained to Amtrust. In summary, Amtrust explained that they were entitled to rely 
on Ms legal opinion with regard to the prospects of success and as such there was no cover 
available. They also said they werent responsible for the service or legal advice that M 
provided, but that theyd done all they could to pass on Mrs Rs concerns.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She concluded Amtrust had acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt 
recommend that they needed to do more to resolve the complaint.
Mrs R disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mrs R, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to highlight that I can only consider the actions of Amtrust and their agents. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs R is also unhappy with M and that she may well have a valid 
grievance with the school in question, these are issues I cant comment on as it isnt 
something Amtrust are responsible for. The fact that M are one of Amtrusts panel solicitors 
doesnt change this. 
Mrs Rs policy says: At any time we may, but only when supported by independent legal 
advice, form the view that you do not have a more than 50% change of winning the case and 
achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further support
Terms like this are common to nearly all legal expenses insurance policies and I dont 
consider this term to be inherently unfair.
Amtrust themselves arent legal experts, so in line with the above term, I think it is fair for 
them to rely on suitably qualified legal advice. Unless, that advice is so obviously wrong that 
a layperson could be expected to notice.
M concluded that Mrs Rs claim didnt have the required prospects of success. Im satisfied 
that Ms advice was provided by suitably qualified individuals and I dont think it was 
obviously wrong. And whilst their assessment didnt always express a percentage number, it 
did clearly set out that they didnt believe there were reasonable prospects of success. In 
these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amtrust to decline to accept the 
claim. 
I can see that consideration was given to a potential claim (or counterclaim) against the 
school on the basis of personal injury. But having carefully read the policy documents, I dont 
think Amtrust were wrong to say this wasnt covered. The relevant section of the policy 
provides cover following an accident. I agree with Amtrust that a breach of duty of care or 
harm caused by poor provision of education, cant fairly be considered an accident.  
As Ive covered, Amtrust arent responsible for the service M provided. But I can see that 
when Mrs R expressed concerns, Amtrust passed these on and asked M to address them. 
This is what Id expect them to do in these circumstances. It isnt for Amtrust to manage how 
M run the legal claim which would include their legal assessments. I accept that Mrs R was 
clearly upset and frustrated at M not keeping to a deadline, and that shed raised this with 
Amtrust at the time. But again, this isnt something Amtrust are responsible for. M said they 
didnt believe the missed deadline prejudiced Mrs Rs legal position. Mrs R has told us she 
has raised a complaint with the Legal Ombudsman which is an appropriate course of action 
if she remains dissatisfied with M. 
I also appreciate Mrs R might have wanted a second opinion from someone other than M  
this is something she is entitled to seek  but I dont think Amtrust are obliged to fund this. 
Amtrust highlighted this option to Mrs R in a letter at the time. Had Mrs R provided a legal 
opinion which concluded her claim did have reasonable prospects of success, Id have 
expected Amtrust to consider it (and in those circumstances to potentially consider the cost 
of her obtaining that opinion). But in the absence of a conflicting legal opinion, I think it was 
fair for Amtrust to rely on what M said and I dont think they need to do more. 
Following her making an offer of settlement, Mrs R says that she was advised by Amtrust 
(not M) to await a response from the other side. She says this was advice that Amtrust 
werent qualified to give and that by doing so theyve breached her insurance contract. She 
says that a consequence of following this advice is that it was then too late for her to appoint her own solicitor and she had to pay what was being claimed from her by the school. Ive 
thought about this and I dont agree.
Ultimately, by this point, Amtrust had declined the claim as it didnt meet the requirements of 
the policy. Once the claim had been declined, it was for Mrs R to provide further evidence to 
support that her claim did meet the policy terms, which I would have expected Amtrust to 
have considered. The other options were for Mrs R to take legal action outside of the policy 
or to provide a legal opinion supporting that the claim had the required prospects of success. 
I think Amtrust were trying their best to assist Mrs R in the circumstances and this is 
evidenced by them providing some funding to M to advise Mrs R beyond the initial prospects 
assessment theyd asked for (and despite the claim not being accepted). But the 
responsibility to protect her legal position was Mrs Rs. The policy exists to provide funding 
for certain legal expenses in line with its terms and conditions  no policy can cover every 
eventuality. I dont think Amtrust trying to provide some further support in an effort to treat 
Mrs R fairly (after having explained why the policy couldnt assist), means that they become 
responsible for the outcome of the legal action. 
Summary
Overall, I dont think Amtrust have acted outside the terms of the policy or unfairly. The claim 
was assessed by M who considered that it didnt meet the requirements for cover under the 
policy. Further consideration was given to whether a claim could be made under other 
sections of the policy, but unfortunately there wasnt another section of cover that provided a 
benefit. 
Amtrust promptly passed on concerns about the service M had provided and I dont think 
Amtrust themselves gave poor service. I can sympathise with the difficult position that Mrs R 
found herself in, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Amtrust have treated her 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman