DRN-4310862
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Barclays), recording a default on her credit file in relation to her loan account.
What happened
Mrs Ws loan account first fell into arrears a few months after it was opened in July 2022. 
Shortly after Barclays sent her a default notice in November 2022, Mrs W paid what she 
owed prior to December 2022 and avoided a default marker being added to her credit file.  
When Mrs W missed further payments across 2022 and 2023, Barclays issued her with 
arrears warnings and then a second default notice dated 1 March 2023. It asked her to repay 
what was owed before 3 April 2023. Mrs W said she didnt receive the notice until just before 
1 April, which is when she spoke to one of Barclays advisers to ask about entering into an 
arrangement. During the call Mrs W agreed to gather information about her income and 
expenditure before calling back on 3 April. 
Unfortunately, Mrs W didnt call Barclays back until 4 April and so, although a repayment 
plan was eventually agreed, a default marker was placed on her credit file. Mrs W wasnt 
happy with Barclays actions, so she complained.
Barclays replied that it had acted appropriately by adding the default marker, which was 
done in accordance with the letters and notices it had sent Mrs W in advance.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. In essence she 
felt Barclays had led her to believe a default wasnt going to be recorded due to her 
circumstances at the time. And that, if shed known one would be added, shed have paid on 
time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They found that Barclays had sent Mrs W adequate warning regarding the consequences of 
not paying in time and that it had acted fairly overall. 
As Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Fundamentally, Mrs W entered into an agreement to pay Barclays back for a loan. This 
meant her paying an agreed amount on an agreed date each month for the term of the loan. 
This was all set out in the loan agreement Mrs W signed. She didnt comply with the 
agreement.
By April 2023, although no default marker had yet been added, I think Mrs W ought to have 
been familiar with the process Barclays followed in instances where an account fell into 
arrears. Barclays followed that process in late 2022 and did so again in 2023. 
I cant say for sure why Mrs W wouldnt have received Barclays default notice of 1 March for 
around a month. But it appears to have been correctly addressed, so I cant fairly hold 
Barclays responsible for the delay. In any case, its clear that Mrs W received it before the 
deadline Barclays had set and that shed agreed to comply with its request for further 
information by 3 April. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs W didnt call Barclays back until 4 April, by which time the default 
marker had been added. But I think it was entitled to take this action as it had made clear the 
consequences of not providing the necessary information in time. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs Ws said about being unable to call Barclays 
sooner due to illness. But, overall, I think Barclays allowed her sufficient time in which to 
submit the information it required. I recognise that Barclays had allowed Mrs W until 3 April 
despite the earlier default notice asking her to get in touch before 3 April. But, since Mrs W 
didnt reply with the information needed until 4 April in any event, I dont think this caused her 
to lose out. And, if anything, Barclays afforded her more time than she would otherwise have 
had. 
Ive also thought very carefully about the bereavements Mrs W suffered in 2021 and 2022. 
Im very sorry to hear of her circumstances and of the difficult times shes been through and, 
I gather, is still going through. That said, I must be fair to both parties. I cant reasonably say, 
on the available evidence, that these events significantly impacted on what happened in 
relation to Barclays in 2023 or mean that Barclays wasnt entitled to act as it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman