DRN-3892119
The complaint
Mrs D complains Experian Limited dont provide the correct information when electronic 
verification is requested, which led to problems when she was trying to transfer money 
between savings accounts.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of this below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mrs D had a savings account due to mature, and she wanted to move her funds from her 
existing account with a company Ill call S, to another company who Ill call L. She attempted 
to transfer the money, and S used an online verification system to try and check Mrs D was 
transferring money to one of her own accounts. But she was told the verification failed, and 
this was Experians fault.
She contacted Experian, and after getting a report found she was listed on the joint account 
shed used for verification with L as financially connected. She thinks this is wrong and has 
led to the issues shes had.
Experian said any joint account would show as a financial connection between her and the 
joint account holder so this was correct. They said they didnt know the reason why shed not 
been verified as this process is automated, and they suggested Mrs D contact the 
companies involved. Overall they didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs D asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but ultimately felt 
Experian were reporting things correctly, and hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs D didnt accept this saying the other companies are blaming Experian, and theyre 
blaming the other companies while shes stuck in the middle. So, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
Having reviewed matters I decided I needed some more information before I could fairly 
reach an the outcome on this complaint. 
This has taken longer than Id have liked, but I do believe weve got to the bottom of what 
happened  which isnt down to the electronic verification system in the way Mrs D has 
previously thought. Nor is it because of the way Experian had Mrs D recorded as financially 
connected.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The system used by S when Mrs D attempted the transfer of her savings was Experians 
Bank Wizard Absolute (BWA). This is designed to be a bank-to-bank system and is 
described in Experians brochure as a method of checking ownership of your customers 
bank accounts to reduce fraud and payment errors. There are four steps to the way this 
system works  again, taken from the brochure:
1. Input the customers details into BWA
2. These details are compared to the data held by Experian, which includes current 
account information from Banks
3. Confidence scores are returned to you in near real time, showing you how closely the 
information youve provided matches the information Experian holds
4. You either proceed with the payment, or check and amend the bank account 
information
So, as explained this process simply checks whether the account details entered are a 
match on Experians credit file.
In Mrs Ds case she entered her account details on S system  and this returned an error 
saying there was no match. This means the account details Mrs D entered werent matched 
to any data held by Experian.
Ordinarily, Experian would hold details of Mrs Ds current account, but here they didnt. 
Theyve explained the reason for this is because the account details she was using  for her 
joint account held with L  were marked as non-consented. Experian explained the 
following when questioned about why Mrs Ds account didnt return a match:
Our data team looked at the record held against the Sort Code and Account Number for 
Mrs D and we do now hold her record on file, it is a Laccount and is noted as Non-
Consented. Non-Consented data is a category of data that was formally not consented for 
third party data sharing (this would have been an option that the consumer chose when 
setting up their current account) until an industry change in the early 2000s meant that this 
data can now be shared, which was helped by the rise of GDPR (General Data Protection 
Regulations) and data sharing is covered under the holding Banks privacy notice.
So, at the time of Mrs D looking to transfer her savings account from S to L, Experian held 
no records of her account details with L  because theyd been marked as non-consented 
data meaning they werent shared. Experian have said they and other credit reference 
agencies have been pushing for non-consented account data to be shared with them since 
its now usually covered under a banks privacy notice, and recently this has started to 
happen.
The reason Experian are now in a place to explain what actually happened, is because since 
Mrs D originally made her complaint, L have shared the account data with them. Ive seen 
screenshots to show the data was loaded in August 2022  and that it was marked as non-
consented. 
I can see why Mrs D has felt so frustrated  shes tried to do a simple transaction which 
didnt work, and its taken a very long time for her to get a clear answer about whats 
happened. I can though only hold Experian responsible for an error if Im satisfied theyve 
made one.Here, I cant reasonably say they have. At the time of Mrs D making her complaint, the 
account data hadnt been shared with them so when they told Mrs D in their final response 
they didnt know why there was an issue I think that was correct. I think its only because L 
shared the data about her account with Experian after her complaint that theyre now able to 
explain what happened and why.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D said this was strange as L had told her months ago this wasnt a legacy account and 
consent is held. She also called them after receiving my provisional decision, and they told 
her there is no reason she cant be electronically verified.
Experian said theyd reviewed matters and had nothing further to add.
We also received further information from L. Wed previously asked them about the account 
and whether it was or wasnt a non-consented account. They replied and said they werent 
sharing any information with Experian. 
Given Experians screenshots said otherwise, I decided L had given us incorrect information 
at that point. In Ls latest reply theyve said Mrs Ds account is being classed as non-shared 
(non-consented data) based on the account open date and associated account change 
information.
L said they changed their processes, and Mrs Ds non-consented account was first shared 
with Experian on 10 August 2022. They also provided some screenshots to show this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said before I do understand Mrs Ds frustration here. What should be a very simple 
process has become lengthy through no fault of her own and with a significant amount of 
conflicting answers  which has seemingly only got worse for her since I issued my 
provisional decision.
I have to make it clear though I can only base my outcome on the evidence provided to me. I 
was satisfied at the point I issued my provisional decision L hadnt transferred details of her 
account to Experian for the purposes of account verification until August 2022.
Ls latest reply confirms what Experians screenshots had already shown me  that Experian 
didnt receive the data until August 2022. I cant explain why L have told Mrs D one thing, 
and our service another.
But, ultimately, this decision is against Experian  and the evidence I have shows they didnt 
receive Mrs Ds data until August 2022. So, at the time of Mrs D attempting the transaction L 
hadnt transferred her account data to Experian  so I cant say Experian have done 
anything wrong.
Experian have said given the amount of information received from various companies it 
could take some time for the account data to be available for the purposes of account 
verification. If Mrs D wants more information about this, shell need to speak to Experian 
directly. Id encourage her to refer them to this complaint for an explanation of what 
happened, should she speak to someone who isnt clear on whats happened.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman