DRN-3919255
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker about her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database, and closed her account.
What happened
Miss B explains that the CIFAS marker is affecting her ability to obtain an account elsewhere 
and her future employment prospects.
HSBC said it hadnt made any mistake. Miss B had received three payments totalling just 
under £9,700 on 8 July 2022. Miss B had moved some of the money to a savings account. 
These payments had been reported by the senders bank as fraudulently obtained. And 
HSBC had returned funds under an indemnity. HSBC said it had considered Miss Bs 
explanation that this money was from her father for university fees. But that didnt explain 
why the payments had been reported as fraudulent. It closed her account in line with its 
terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that HSBC had 
shown it had grounds to add the marker and close the account. Miss B hadnt been able to 
provide evidence to support what shed said happened. And that thered been an error or 
misunderstanding as Miss B had claimed.
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she did have a 
university offer and she had no intention of moving the money on at the time. Her father had 
sent the money and not a random person. And she said that hed only reported this because 
her account had been restricted. She said that if she and her father had known the 
implications this wouldnt have been reported and theyd have waited for the account to 
become unrestricted. Miss B said no one wanted to listen and when shed been to a branch 
with her father she found her account had been closed. He hadnt reported this to the police 
as his bank had suggested so she didnt think there were grounds for the marker. She 
indicated that if we called her father, hed confirm things and that hed offered to pay for a 
lawyer for her. Miss B said that shed tried to open other accounts, but theyd been closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Its clear that HSBC received a report that the money paid into Miss Bs account here had 
been fraudulently obtained. And it received an indemnity from the senders bank for a 
return of the money. There is no evidence to support that the sender had retracted the 
claim of fraud. Its a matter for that person to decide whether or not to report things to the 
police. 
I note from an email Miss B sent to this service in October 2022 that she stated she then 
had no longer had a relationship with family. She said that shed been told that the money 
was for university fees but that this wasnt the real reason. And that her account had been 
used for paying money from and back to a business run by her father. The payments were 
possible as her father had sent her pocket money and a similar large payment that had 
been returned and so had her account details. By January 2023 she stated in an email that 
her father would be helping her with upcoming university costs. And as stated above that 
hed offered to fund legal support with this matter.
The money appeared to come from a business account as Miss B says based on the 
statement narrative. I need to consider Miss Bs explanation about this. If as she says the 
money came from her father it is unclear why hed want this back very quickly. And would 
tell her this was for university fees. This was an explanation she gave to HSBC. It seems to 
me from the evidence from HSBC that her account was blocked because of the report of 
fraud not because of the size of the payments. And its up to Miss B to support what she 
says with any evidence including from her father. Given she says that this is a family 
misunderstanding it does seem reasonable to expect her to be able to provide more. I 
havent seen anything to back up her version of events and I dont think its reliable. And 
so, I dont have a basis to think that she most likely had this money legitimately and that 
she was an unwitting participant in what happened.
HSBC says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss B received fraudulent funds into 
her account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that HSBC needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Bs account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im 
satisfied that HSBC had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss B received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this at the time.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- HSBC had grounds to believe that Miss B had attempted to access fraudulently 
obtained funds based on the evidence it had.Given this finding I dont see that HSBC acted outside the terms and conditions in closing 
Miss Bs accounts. I appreciate what she says about the impact of the marker but Im afraid I 
dont have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to do anything further. If Miss B doesnt 
accept my decision she remains free to pursue this in court, as shes indicated she might, 
and subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman