DRN-3115425
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs T complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down curtailment claims they each
made on their annual travel insurance policies.  
What happened
Mr K and Mrs T booked a package holiday to a country Ill call V. They each took out an
annual travel insurance policy through their travel provider on 8 February 2020. They were
due to fly to V on 8 March 2020 and return to the UK on 23 March 2020. Mr K and Mrs T flew
abroad as planned and were able to undertake some of their planned excursions.
However, on 13 March 2020, they were told by officials that theyd been exposed to 
someone whod contracted Covid-19. So they were quarantined in a military-style
accommodation. While both Mr K and Mrs T tested negative for Covid-19 themselves, they
were required to remain in quarantine until 22 March 2020. They were able to fly back to the
UK on 23 March 2020 on a new flight booking, as their original direct flight had been 
cancelled.
Mr K and Mrs T were paid around £1200 by their travel provider to recognise that they hadnt
been able to undertake some of their planned activities during the quarantine period. But as
theyd paid substantially more for their planned trip, they each made a curtailment claim on
their travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down both claims. It said while the curtailment section of the policy covered
compulsory quarantine, this would only apply if there was medical evidence to show that an
illness had required Mr K and Mrs T to quarantine. In this case, it didnt consider there was
any medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr K and Mrs T had either been ill or had needed
to quarantine.
Mr K and Mrs T were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mr K and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She
considered a translated copy of a report from Vs authorities regarding Mr K and Mrs Ts
quarantine. She noted that their quarantine was noted to be medical quarantine and that the 
general hospital was involved in Mr K and Mrs Ts Covid-19 testing and checks. So she felt
the report showed that their quarantine was on the orders of a medical professional. 
She acknowledged that the terms state that curtailment benefit is payable if a policyholder is
hospitalised abroad, or from the date of their early return home. But in this case, she
considered that at the point Mr K and Mrs T were quarantined, their holiday was effectively
cut short. So she felt it would be fair for AWP to pay Mr K and Mrs Ts curtailment claims
from the date they were quarantined on 13 March 2020.
.
AWP disagreed. It said the trip was also disrupted due to the closure of hotels and tourist
sites as a result of Covid-19 and this wasnt covered by the curtailment section of the policy.
It also said that Mr K and Mrs T were quarantined as a precautionary measure, rather than
either of them being diagnosed with an infectious or contagious disease. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr K and Mrs Ts 
claims. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms and conditions of the policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP
handled these claims fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of the
contracts between Mr K and Mrs T and AWP. AWP considered the claims under the
cancellation or curtailment section of the policy. So Ive looked at the cover provided by this
section of the contract. It says that AWP will pay up to £5000 of a policyholders
irrecoverable, pre-paid costs for travel, accommodation, pre-booked excursions, tours,
courses and events, if they have to cancel or cut short a trip because of one of the listed
events. One of these says:
The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a
treating doctor
The insurer will pay the curtailment from the date you returned to your home country or the
dates you were hospitalised as an in-patient.
In this case, neither party disputes that Mr K and Mrs T had to enter compulsory quarantine
on the orders of Vs government officials. However, AWP doesnt agree that the quarantine
was on the orders of a treating doctor. Ive also noted AWPs comments regarding the fact
that Mr K and Mrs T werent quarantined because theyd been diagnosed with a contagious
illness. But I dont think this is relevant. Thats because the policy terms dont require the
compulsory quarantine to be as a result of contagious illness.
So Ive next turned to consider the translated copy of the quarantine report. The report says:
Based on (a decision dated) 12/3/2020 by Ministry of Health regarding promulgating
guidance on medical quarantine at quarantine centres for Covid-19 pandemic prevention.
Based on the towns Health Centres recommendationregarding ending medical
quarantine of 02 British tourists who are in quarantine at the...Care Centre. (Bold is my
emphasis).
The report also states: The towns general hospital to chair and cooperate with the Health
Centre in ongoing health checks and health infrastructure assurance before 02 tourists
leavetown; as well as in providing these individuals with guidance on mask wearing while
travelling within and leaving V. (Bold is my emphasis).
Its clear that Mr K and Mrs Ts quarantine was for medical reasons. I can see that the
overall report was drafted by the towns steering group on pandemic prevention, which
included the town hospital. So Im satisfied the report is clear evidence that Mr K and Mrs Ts
compulsory quarantine was at least partly on the orders of medical professionals, amongst
other official local bodies. The document also shows that both the local hospital and health
centre were involved in health checks and tests Mr K and Mrs T received while they were
quarantined. I accept no specific doctor is named in the report. But I think its persuasive
evidence that Mr K and Mrs T were compulsorily quarantined, for medical reasons, by
qualified medical professionals who formed part of an overall pandemic prevention team. SoIm satisfied theyve demonstrated that their claims should fairly fall within the scope of
quarantine cover.
I acknowledge that the curtailment section of the policy provides cover either for the period a
policyholder is hospitalised as an in-patient, or the date of their early return to the UK. In this
case, neither Mr K nor Mrs T were hospitalised and they returned home on their planned
return date. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I agree that their claims arent
covered.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. In this case, Mr K and Mrs T have provided clear evidence that
they were compulsorily quarantined between 13 and 22 March 2020. Theyve told us that
they were quarantined in military-style accommodation and were kept under guard. I can see
from the report that the towns military were part of the pandemic prevention steering group,
so I think its more likely than not that this was indeed the case. As a result, Mr K and Mrs T
werent able to stay in their pre-booked accommodation while they were quarantined or take
any of their planned and paid-for excursions. I dont think this was a case of simple lack of
enjoyment, Mr K and Mrs T werent able to even stay in the accommodation theyd booked
or have any sort of holiday at all while they were quarantined.
On this basis then, I currently find that their holiday was effectively cut short at the time they
were quarantined on 13 March 2020, until they were released from the facility on 22 March
2020. And so Im presently persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to step
away from a strict interpretation of the policy and assess the claims under the curtailment
section.
AWP has referred to the fact that there was ongoing travel disruption in V before Mr K and
Mrs T were quarantined. I dont think thats relevant to the outcome of this complaint though.
I say that because Im only planning to direct AWP to deal with the claims for the period Mr K
and Mrs T were quarantined. Prior to that date, Im aware they were still able to take planned
excursions and enjoy some parts of their trip. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr K and Mrs T accepted my provisional findings. 
AWP didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. 
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reconsider Mr K and Mrs Ts claims in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman