DRN-2643152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mr N took out a monthly premium PPI policy in 2000 at the same time as he applied for a 
further advance on his mortgage. This mortgage was later transferred into joint names as 
Mrs N was added to the account.
The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The cover gave Mr N protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr N says he wasnt fully made aware of the PPI. Lloyds says it hasnt identified any failings 
during the sale. I cant know what was said in the meeting, so Ive looked at the available 
paperwork from the sale. Mr N signed a separate PPI application form and direct debt 
mandate and theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led him to 
believe the PPI was mandatory. Also, he hadnt selected it when he took out his main 
mortgage the year before, so I think he would have understood it was a separate optional 
product. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ns comments, but I also have to take into account 
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, I think its 
most likely Lloyds made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr N agreed to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr N so it had to check if the PPI was right for him. I think it 
seems to have been suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr N cant recall if he was entitled to any sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. Overall, I think the 
cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs N if Mr N was sick, had an accident or lost his 
job. It would have ensured they were able to meet their repayments whilst Mr N wasnt 
working.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr N all the information he needed before he decided to buy 
PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear and Mr N says he was financially stressed at 
the time. But Mr N was paying a monthly premium of £4.50 for a monthly benefit of £181.64 
so I think the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit if offered, and I havent seen any 
evidence that this was unaffordable for Mr N. I dont know that Lloyds pointed out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But Mr N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those 
things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I 
dont think better information wouldve changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman