The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the handling of his motor insurance claim by MCE Insurance Company 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr H has a motor insurance policy with MCE, which provides cover for his motorbike. In 
January 2020, Mr H contacted MCE to report that his motorbike had been damaged. He said 
that he had been driving, and had ridden through standing water which led to his bike 
stalling. Mr H said that his mechanic had stripped the bike down, drained the oil from the 
engine and discovered water in the engine. Mr H considered this water had led to damage. 
MCE arranged for the bike to be moved to its assessor who examined the disassembled 
bike. The assessor noted that some of the parts were not present, but that there was:
"no sign of water ingress to the engine and the lubricant level is far below the 
recommended lower level."
The assessor considered this might have been a contributory factor and recommended:
"further stripping and investigation by a suitably qualified technician to determine 
actual cause of engine damage."
MCE initially offered to settle Mr H claim in full, considering the bike to be a total loss - given 
the cost of repair was uneconomical. However, MCE altered its position and declined Mr H's 
claim saying that mechanical failures were not covered by the policy. MCE offered Mr H 
£100 compensation for incorrectly informing him his claim would be met. 
MCE did say that Mr H could obtain a further report from an independent engineer and it 
would reconsider the claim if the report showed the damage was not due to a mechanical 
failure. 
Mr H was not happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. There have also 
been issues with the continued storage of the bike with MCE's assessor. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She considered that the policy 
provided cover for damage, and that it was clear the bike had suffered damage. She felt that, 
for MCE to fairly decline the claim, it needed to evidence that the damage was as a result of 
one of the exclusions in the policy - in this case mechanical failure. But that the assessor's 
report did not, in her view, provide adequate evidence of this.
MCE did not agree and so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
DRN-1851069What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should firstly state that it is not the role of this service to assess the damage to a motorbike 
nor to actually establish the cause of any damage. My role is, in this case, to determine 
whether or not MCE reached its decision on Mr H's claim fairly and reasonably.
It hasn't been disputed that Mr H's bike has been damaged. It also isn't disputed that the 
policy he has with MCE provides cover in the event of damage to his bike. The issue is 
whether MCE has fairly and reasonably concluded that the damage falls under one of the 
exclusions within the policy. The exclusion in question states that the policy:
"does not cover the following:...
3. Mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer failures, breakdowns or 
breakages."
As such, the point I need to determine is whether MCE has fairly and reasonably decided 
that the damage to Mr H's bike was the result of a mechanical failure. 
In making a decision on a claim like this, we would expect an insurer to rely on the 
conclusions of an expert. In this case, MCE has relied on the report from its assessor. 
However, we would expect an insurer to correctly apply the findings in such a report. I note 
that, in this case, the report does not make a conclusion on the actual cause of engine 
damage. Instead, it recommends further investigation. MCE had the opportunity to carry out 
such investigation, but apparently chose not to.
I do note that the report does say that the oil level is below the recommended level and this 
may have been a contributory factor. However, I do not consider this definitive in showing 
the cause of damage. Potentially this could have been a partial reason, but the report says 
this will need further investigation. And it isn't clear whether the assessor was aware that the 
oil had apparently already been drained from the bike, prior to it being delivered to him. 
It is possible that damage to an engine could be said to be mechanical in nature. However, I 
consider that to fairly rely on the exclusion above, MCE would need to demonstrate that any 
mechanical damage was caused by the operation of the bike in its usual way. Mr H has 
provided testimony that the damage to his bike was caused by a single event - him driving 
into standing water. It isn't clear whether the damage to the bike has been caused by this 
water entering the engine, nor what the actual cause was. But I do not consider driving a 
bike of this type into standing water to be the operation of the bike in its normal way. And, 
significantly, MCE has not to my mind provided evidence demonstrating it was appropriate to 
apply the exclusion relating to mechanical failure.
Based on the points above, I don't consider MCE could rely on this report to fairly conclude 
that the cause of damage was a mechanical failure. And I don't consider MCE has 
demonstrated that it was fair or reasonable to apply this exclusion to Mr H's claim. As such, I 
consider the claim should be met subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
The decline of this claim, in addition to the consequent issues with the storage of the bike, 
also caused Mr H distress and inconvenience that otherwise would have been avoided. Putting things right
MCE Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr H £250 compensation and meet his claim 
for the total loss of his motorbike, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman