DRN-4023007
Complaint
Mr D complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. 
Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
In January 2020, SMF provided Mr D with finance for a used car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £10,515.49. Mr D paid a deposit of £500 and took out a hire-purchase 
agreement with SMF for the remaining £10,015.49. 
The loan had interest charges of £4,502.11 and a £10 option to purchase fee. This meant 
that the total amount to be repaid of £14,527.60 (not including the £500 deposit) was due to 
be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £241.96 and one final repayment, of £251.96, which 
included the £10 option to purchase fee.
Mr D complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. SMF didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that SMF had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ds complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
SMF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that SMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr D before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
SMF says it agreed to this application after Mr D provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr D which had shown Mr D had had historic 
difficulties with credit and some more recent arrears which had been brought up to date by 
the time of this application. And when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for           
Mr Ds living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were 
still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr D says his existing commitments, particularly what he paid in rent, 
meant that these payments were unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be 
able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr D and SMF have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
SMF carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on an estimate of 
Mr Ds living costs given there was some adverse information on his credit file, even if Mr D 
was in the process of settling his existing car finance agreement with another provider. 
As SMF didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think SMF is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr D. Bearing in mind, 
the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have 
expected SMF to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Ds regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. The information Mr D has 
provided does appear to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing 
credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the 
time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr D says that his rent payments were considerably higher than the amount used in our 
income and expenditure. However, this isnt borne out in the copies of the bank statements 
that hes provided us with. Mr D says he feels that hes being penalised for paying his rent in 
cash in the way that his landlady requested. But its difficult for me to make finding that his 
rent payments were much higher when there isnt anything else  such as a rent or tenancy 
agreement from the time to corroborate this. 
Furthermore, what I need to think about here is what did SMF need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Ds actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search and there appears to be an acceptance his income was correct)?  given this 
was a first agreement and Mr D was being provided with a car rather than cash. 
Bearing in mind Mr D is unable to evidence that his rent was as high as he now says it is, its 
difficult for me to accept that he would have gone to the trouble to evidence that this was in 
fact the case at the time (and therefore that the payments were unaffordable), in 
circumstances where he was looking to obtain credit. So I dont think that SMF could 
reasonably be expected to have known that Mr Ds rent was higher than anticipated and that 
the most readily available evidence suggests it was and most importantly that this would 
mean the monthly repayments were unaffordable. I accept Mr Ds actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than he let on. I 
know that his debts elsewhere increased and that he did get into difficulty with his credit 
commitments later in 2020 and had accounts which defaulted in 2021. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that SMF could possibly be expected to have 
known that this would happen  especially bearing in mind the unprecedent events and the 
ongoing effects of that year. 
I know that Mr D has queried how it is possible for us not to uphold this complaint when an 
adjudicator has already upheld a separate complaint about an agreement where a lower 
amount of funds were advanced. 
I can understand why Mr D might find it strange that hes received different outcomes on 
complaints which he perceives to be materially the same. But we consider complaints on an 
individual basis and looking at the individual circumstances. And what will constitute a 
proportionate check will very much depend on the particular circumstances of the individual 
application  a proportionate check  even for the same customer - could look different for 
different applications. 
Im not bound by the outcomes reached by adjudicators or even investigators. Ultimately, Im 
required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own conclusion. That said and with a 
view to providing some clarity and reassurance to Mr D, it might help for me to explain that 
there are two key differences between this complaint and Mr Ds other one. Firstly, Mr Ds 
other complaint was about an agreement taken out a few years earlier. Ive already 
explained that Id seen that Mr D had experienced previous difficulty with credit and his other 
agreement appears to have been taken out during that period. 
Secondly, as Ive already explained, in this case, I dont think that the level of checks 
required for a proportionate affordability assessment to have taken place would have shown 
the monthly payments to have been unaffordable. So while Im not required to replicate the 
outcomes reached by our adjudicators, nonetheless I dont consider that my answer here is 
incompatible or inconsistent with the one Mr D received on his other case, notwithstanding 
the differing outcomes.    
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that SMFs checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr D did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped SMF from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. So Im satisfied that SMF didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr D when it agreed to provide the funds.
Overall and having carefully considered everything Mr D has said, I dont think that SMF 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and at least consider that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman