DRN-2887672
The complaint
Miss L complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) failed to respond after she told them 
about her financial difficulties and made an offer to settle her debt with them
What happened
Miss L was accepted for an Aqua credit card account in February 2019. She wrote to Aqua 
on 18 July 2019. She said that her circumstances had changed, and she was unable to pay 
what she owed in full. She said that she was no longer in the UK and had no address for 
correspondence. She said she was corresponding by email. She offered Aqua an amount in 
full and final settlement of what she owed. 
Miss L received an email from Aqua about her account in August 2019. So, she spoke to 
Aqua and told them about the letter shed sent to them but heard no more.
Having returned to the UK, Miss L received a letter from Aqua dated 17 January 2020. They 
said that her account was in default and that this would be recorded on her credit file with the 
credit reference agencies. They told her to contact a debt management company (DMC) 
who were dealing with her account. So, Miss L rang Aqua. They told her that theyd replied 
by letter to her offer and made a counter offer for her to repay £276.81. They told her to 
speak to the DMC.
Miss L called the DMC. They said that they hadnt received her account yet. They suggested 
calling Aqua.
So, Miss L called Aqua again. She said that shed written to them in July 2019 but hadnt 
received a reply. They said that her account was being handled by a DMC. 
Miss L called the DMC again. They said they wouldnt receive her account from Aqua until 
28 February 2020. So, Miss L wrote to both Aqua and the DMC on 21 January 2020. She 
explained the situation and said she would be prepared to pay their counter offer in full and 
final settlement of the debt. The DMC acknowledged her letter but there was no reply from 
Aqua. So, Miss L wrote to Aqua again on 17 February 2020.
The DMC wrote to Miss L again on 22 February 2020. They were awaiting a response from 
Aqua. She then received a further letter from the DMC telling her that a default would be 
registered from 28/02/2020. They said she should write to Aqua.
Miss L wrote to Aqua again on 12 March 2020. Shed still not received any response to her 
previous letters. She was unhappy with the default as shed tried to resolve matters with 
them.
Miss L received a letter from Aqua dated 19 March 2020. They said that theyd sold her debt 
to another company. But they didnt refer or reply to any of her previous letters. Miss L then 
received a letter from this company, also dated 19 March 2020. They told her that theyd 
bought her debt and asked her to contact them. So, Miss L wrote back to them on 24 March 
2020 and explained the situation. They replied and said that theyd put her account on hold 
and forwarded her letter to Aqua as a complaint. They were waiting for Aqua to reply,
Aqua replied to Miss L on 15 April 2020 acknowledging her complaint. They wrote again on 
23 April 2020 apologising for the delay in dealing with her complaint. Then, on 20 May 2020, 
they wrote to her again to say they were still looking into her complaint. They said she could 
refer matters to this service. 
Aqua replied to Miss Ls complaint on 27 May 2020. They said that they hadnt done 
anything wrong. So, Miss L contacted them again. Aqua agreed to reopen her complaint and 
investigate it further. Miss L also emailed them on 3 June 2020. She said she wasnt happy 
with their reply of 27 May. But by early September, she still hadnt received a reply from 
Aqua. So, Miss L decided to refer her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators thought that Aqua hadnt acted fairly here. He said that Aqua should 
accept the sum offered in their counter offer to settle the debt. He also said that they should 
arrange to remove the default from Miss Ls credit history. Aqua didnt agree with our 
investigator. So, they asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
Having reviewed Miss Ls complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 21 May 2021  giving both Miss L and 
Aqua the opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In that decision, I said:
I looked at Miss Ls monthly statements for her account with Aqua. I can see the 
account operated without problems until May 2019 when she incurred a late payment 
fee and an overlimit fee. These appear to have been fairly applied based upon the 
account situation at the time. Aqua also sent a notice of default to Miss L. 
Miss Ls account was benefitting from a promotional rate. Because of the default, 
Aqua wrote to her cancelling the promotional offer. This is not unusual where there 
has been a default against the agreement. They then wrote to Miss L on 24 May 
2019. They said that she was over her credit limit and theyd stopped her account 
until it was adjusted. Again, this is what Id expect to see. Miss Ls June and July 
2019 statements show that shed corrected the situation. 
I then looked at Miss Ls letter to Aqua dated 18 July 2019. She specifically tells them 
that her earnings had dropped significantly, and she was unable to pay what she 
owed in full. She offered them £111 as full and final settlement. She explained that 
she was no longer at the address held and was living, temporarily, outside of the UK. 
She said, I am corresponding via email. So, I think it is clear that Miss L was in 
some financial difficulty and she was trying her best to offer a solution and 
settlement.
Aqua say that they replied to Miss Ls letter in writing. But this was sent to the 
address they held for her. But she had already told them that she no longer lived at 
that address. Miss L said that she has never seen Aquas reply and Aqua have not 
provided us with a copy of this letter. Aqua have also told us that mail had been 
returned from this address before then. 
Ive then considered the letters sent by Miss L to Aqua on 21 January 2020, 17 
February 2020 (sent by recorded delivery) and 12 March 2020. In particular, Miss L 
agrees to pay Aquas counter offer of £276.81 in full and final settlement. Aqua say 
that they didnt receive any of these. But the letters appear to be correctly addressed. 
I cant hold Miss L responsible if these letters failed to reach Aqua as they say. This 
was not her fault and its clear she wanted to resolve matters.
Aqua responded to Miss Ls complaint after it had been forwarded to them by the 
company that bought her debt from them. They said that we are unable to send a 
response by email as it is not a secure method of communication. Aqua told us 
they dont have the facility to correspond about specific account details by email. 
This is why they wrote to her at the last address held. But they had emailed her about 
her account in August 2019.Ive looked at the account Terms and Conditions provided by Aqua. Section 18.1 
says You must always tell us if youchange your address, email address or phone 
number. Section 22.1 says We may contact you about your account using the 
most recent contact details that we hold for you. We may provide you with notices 
about your account including notice of any changes, by any means includingany 
electronic means, including by email
Ive also looked at the Credit Card Agreement provided by Aqua. Under How we will 
contact you it says, We will use the most recent address (post and email) and 
telephone and mobile numbersfor all purposes. So, I believe its entirely 
reasonable for Miss L to conclude that Aqua would be able to respond to her letter by 
email as shed requested. But Aqua didnt do that here.
Following Miss Ls referral to this service, Aqua sent a further response to Miss Ls 
complaint on 13 October 2020. In it they said that their terms and conditions state 
you must inform us of any changes to your personal details, this includes changes to 
your address. Miss L did inform Aqua of her circumstances in her letter of 18 July 
2019. So, I think she complied with this requirement. Aqua were provided with a 
means through which to reply and contact her. Aqua also confirmed that theyd 
received this letter. Miss L had told them she was no longer at the address held and 
provided them with alternative contact information.
Aqua go on to say that Miss L claims she responded by letter advising that they 
would like to accept this (Aquas counter offer for settlement). However, we did not 
receive this letter. I can see that Miss Ls acceptance was included in her letter to 
Aqua dated 21 January 2021. 
Also, in their letter, Aqua said that there is nothing to indicate you have ever 
contacted us to inform us you were experiencing financial difficulties or any other 
issues that may have impacted your ability to manage your account. If this was the 
case, we may have taken this into consideration if you contacted us at the time. I 
think that Miss Ls letter of 18 July 2019 is very clear on this point. I also believe that 
Aqua were aware of this given that they confirmed that theyd made a counter offer 
for settlement. 
Aqua have said that To have an Aqua account a customer must have a UK address 
at which they are resident. I have checked Aquas terms and conditions, the credit 
card agreement and their website. I cant find any reference to this requirement within 
any of them. So, I cant see this has been formally communicated as a requirement. 
In any event, Miss L was resident in the UK when she applied for the account.
So, having considered all the information and correspondence available, I am 
persuaded that Miss L made continued efforts to resolve the situation with Aqua and 
was willing to reach a settlement agreement. On balance, I agree with our 
investigator her. I dont believe that Aqua have treated Miss L fairly. I believe that 
Aqua couldve done more to support Miss L and resolve the matter far sooner. 
Theyd received her original offer and had been provided with the means through 
which to contact her. Even if they were unwilling to email confidential information, 
they could simply have emailed or called her asking to discuss matters. They didnt 
do that here. So, I will be asking Aqua to put things right.
If Aqua had replied to Miss L using the details provided, I believe its more likely than 
not that the situation wouldve been resolved, and the debt wouldnt have been sold 
on. So, I think Aqua should buy back the debt from the company that they sold it to.
CONC 7.3.4 within the FCA handbook states that A firm must treat customers in 
default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Miss L had 
clearly explained her situation to Aqua in writing and had done this promptly. CONC 
7.3.5 goes on to say Examples include (1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any future interest or charges. I believe this is what a responsible 
lender wouldve done in these circumstances. 
I believe that Aqua should have frozen Miss Ls account at the point she advised 
them of her difficulties (i.e. 18 July 2019). So, any interest and charges added to the 
debt should be refunded from that point onwards. Aqua have confirmed that they 
were willing to accept a payment in full and final settlement of Miss Ls debt in 
response to her letter. And I think thats what they should do here. 
I also recognise that the situation has been ongoing for a considerable period of time. 
Miss L said that the situation has been distressing and frustrating for her. I can see 
why she would feel this way and so I believe that my decision should ensure that 
Miss L is compensated for Aquas inaction here.  
But Miss L also believes that the default should be removed from her credit file. I 
realise that Miss L will be disappointed, but I dont agree. A persons credit file must 
be an accurate reflection of what has happened. Miss L did default on the 
agreement. So, once Aqua have refunded any charges and interest applied after 18 
July 2019, the defaulted debt amount should be amended to reflect this on her credit 
file. Once the amount of £276.81 has been received from Miss L (Aquas counter 
offer), the debt default on her credit file should then be amended to show as Partially 
Satisfied. Although Aqua will have accepted this in full and final settlement, the debt 
wont have been cleared in full. So, the credit file must reflect this.
Aqua responded to say that they had nothing more to add. Miss L didnt respond to my 
provision decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given both Miss L and Aqua the opportunity to consider my provisional decision, 
neither party have provided me with anything that leads me to change my mind. So, my 
decision here will remain as detailed in my provisional decision of 21 May 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ls complaint. I require NewDay Ltd (trading as 
Aqua) to:
Buy back Miss Ls Debt.
Return the balance owed figure to that outstanding at the date of her letter (18 July 
2019) by refunding any charges and interest applied after that date.
Amend Miss Ls credit file to reflect this new debt amount within the default recorded.
Accept £276.81 in full and final settlement of the outstanding debt.
Show the default registered on Miss Ls credit file as Partially Satisfied.
Pay compensation to Miss L to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused of 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman