DRN-1952237
 
The complaint
Mr W says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about six payday loans Ferratum provided to Mr W between June 2017 
and May 2019. The loans ranged in amounts between £100 and £500. The highest expected 
monthly repayments Mr W had to be able to meet ranged between about £121 and £648. 
There was a break of 20 months between the repayment of loan two and Mr W taking out 
loan three. Mr W repaid all his loans.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint in part and thought loans one and two shouldnt 
have been given. Ferratum disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Ferratum asked Mr W about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit checks. Mr 
W said his monthly income was £1,501. He said his expenditure ranged between £1.043 ad 
£1,379 a month. I cant see that Ferratums credit checks found anything adverse that should 
have prompted further checks.
As our adjudicator explained, for loans one and two, Mr W was approved to borrow up to 
£500 and so his maximum monthly repayment would then have been £648. Mr W didnt 
borrow the maximum amount, but Ferratum wasnt to know this when it approved the loan. 
Ferratum said each draw down was subject to approval. But this doesnt explain why it 
approved a maximum credit limit of £500 for Mr W. So I think its fair and reasonable to 
consider the approval given for the highest amount Mr W agreed to repay.
I think £648 is a significant amount of Mr Ws income. And I think theres a risk Mr W 
wouldnt be able to meet this repayment without having to borrow again. So I think loans one 
and two werent sustainable for Mr W and Ferratum was wrong to have approved them.
There was a significant break between Mr W repaying loan two and taking out loan three. So 
I think it would be reasonable for Ferratum to treat loan three as the start of a new chain of 
lending and carry out the affordability checks that were appropriate.
I think Ferratums checks went far enough for loans three and four. But I think the pattern of 
borrowing again very shortly after repaying an earlier loan should have prompted Ferratum 
to make better checks for loans five and six. However, I havent enough information from Mr 
W to see what better checks would have found. So I cant say that Ferratum was wrong to 
have approved loans three to six.
Putting things right
To put things rights for Mr W, I think Ferratum needs to:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Mr Ws credit file;
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. I require Ferratum UK Ltd to pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman