DRN-3368284
The complaint
Mr M complains Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society (CBS) has 
unfairly charged him a loading fee on his mortgage relating to his property being let out. Hes 
also unhappy with how arrears and a payment holiday have been recorded on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our Investigator, so Ive provided a summary here.
Historically, Mr M took out a mortgage with CBS to assist with the purchase of a 
residential property which he lived in. Some years later, he let the property, and after 
some initial complications, CBS eventually consented to this for a period of time.
In 2016, CBS contacted Mr M to remind him its consent to the letting was due to 
expire. It asked him if the property was to be re-let or if he was going to move back in 
himself. It warned him a loading would be added to the interest rate if he didnt 
respond and provide the appropriate evidence. He confirmed the property was to be 
re-let and the consent was renewed for a further year. 
In 2017, it issued another reminder about its consent expiring again and when it 
didnt hear anything by the deadline, it applied the loading fee and increased the 
monthly repayment.
In April 2020, CBS got in contact with Mr M to offer him a repayment holiday for three 
months to help with any financial pressure he might be experiencing as a result of the 
Covid pandemic. Mr M accepted the offer. He says he also told CBS he had moved 
back into the property full time and queried what his repayment would be without the 
loading fee. He says he was told it would be £736.
In Spring 2021, Mr M complained to CBS. He said hed moved back into the property 
in March 2020 and he asked for the loading fee to be removed. CBS said it had 
explained in December 2020 the information he needed to supply for it to remove the 
loading fee but Mr M wasnt able to provide it. It reiterated the evidence it needed and 
said it would keep charging the loading fee until it was provided.
It also said it had reported the payment holiday correctly on Mr Ms credit file and 
disagreed it had told Mr M his mortgage payment would be in the region of £700.
Mr M brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. He 
addressed the various issues Mr M raised and highlighted some discrepancies in the 
dates Mr M had provided about who was living in the property and when. Overall, he 
was satisfied CBS had acted fairly.
Mr M asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were some historic issues, which pre-date this complaint, relating to Mr M being 
charged a loading fee on his mortgage in 2014 as he let his property without permission from 
CBS and some arrears that had accumulated. These were the subject of a previous 
complaint to CBS around that time and, for reasons explained by our Investigator, not 
something I will be considering under this decision. 
The loading fee - 2017
The terms of Mr Ms mortgage set out clearly that permission from CBS must be obtained 
before a property is let out and that an increased interest rate would be charged. In my 
experience, this is common amongst mortgage lenders. 
Additionally, if the property is let without its permission, the terms explain:
Where you let the property or allow it to be occupied without our consent, or where 
you fail to observe our conditions of letting, we may impose a higher increase in the 
interest ratewhile the unauthorised letting or occupation continues
CBS wrote to Mr M a number of times before its consent to the letting expired in 2017 and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest these letters werent received. CBS didnt hear back from Mr M 
by the deadline and so the consent expired and the increased loading fee was applied. CBS 
sent confirmation of this and the new monthly repayment to Mr M. 
Im satisfied CBS acted fairly in applying this additional loading fee in line with the mortgage 
terms when the existing consent expired and it didnt hear back from Mr M.
I acknowledge Mr M says his tenants moved out of the property in 2016 and it hadnt been 
rented out since, but Ive not seen any evidence to support this or that he moved back in at 
this time. It also seems to be contradicted by a call he had with CBS in 2019 when he said 
he was still renting the property to family.
Overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me the property was no longer rented 
out from 2016 and that Mr M moved back in  both of which are requirements for the loading 
fee to be removed. It follows, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct CBS 
to remove the loading fee from 2016.
The loading fee - 2020
Mr M says he moved back into the property in 2020. Over a number of years, CBS has 
consistently told Mr M what he needs to provide to evidence this. I acknowledge on a couple 
of occasions it didnt state explicitly what was required - referring only to utility bills - but Im 
satisfied it had been very clear both before and after this about its requirements. On balance, 
I think it made it sufficiently clear that a Council Tax bill would be required.
And while these requirements may not be specifically laid down in the mortgage terms and 
conditions, given the history of unauthorised letting and the contradictory information about 
dates of letting detailed by our Investigator, I think it was reasonable CBS wanted to see a 
Council Tax bill as proof of residency and utility bills in Mr Ms name. 
Eventually, Mr M provided a Council Tax bill from April 2021 together with a utility bill from February 2021. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think it was reasonable for CBS to 
backdate the removal of the loading fee to the date of the Council Tax bill rather than the 
utility bill. 
I note CBS has offered Mr M the opportunity to provide an older Council Tax bill or 
confirmation of his residency from the Council, and it will consider what he provides and may 
reconsider the backdating of the removal of the loading fee. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The repayment holiday 
Mr M spoke to CBS in April 2020 and asked to take a three-month payment holiday as his 
income had been impacted by the Covid pandemic. Mr M says, during this call, CBS told him 
he only needed to make payments of around £700. And he started to make payments of 
£780 to the account because of this.
Ive listened very carefully to the call and there was only reference to one repayment figure, 
and that was in the region of £1,100. I heard no reference to any amount around £700. So, 
when arrears built up on the mortgage, Im not persuaded CBS was responsible for this as 
Ive not seen any evidence the reduced payments were as a consequence of incorrect 
information supplied by CBS. Instead, it seems to have been Mr Ms personal choice to 
make payments at this level. 
At the end of the repayment holiday, CBS confirmed what the new payments needed to be 
so even if there had been confusion on the call  which I dont think there was  this would 
have reasonably quickly clarified things.
The reporting of the payment holiday and arrears
CBS sent a letter which confirmed the details of the payment holiday and provided Mr M with 
an updated arrears figure. It confirmed the arrears would continue to be reported on his 
credit file during the payment holiday.
Having looked at the history of the mortgage, its clear arrears have been a regular feature 
going back to the early days of the account. And for the reasons Ive explained above, 
arrears continued to accumulate due to the reduced payments Mr M was making. 
CBS is under an obligation to report accurately the status of a mortgage, including any 
arrears or any repayment holidays so I think CBS has acted fairly when its done this. It also 
accurately reported the repayment holiday as an arrangement rather than a missed payment 
in line with its obligations so I dont think its done anything wrong when it did this.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I think CBS has acted fairly in the way its handled 
these issues.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman