DRN-2347986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited hasnt paid their
claim on their home insurance policy for an escape of water.
What happened
In my first provisional decision of 9 June 2020, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. 
I said I intended to direct Lloyds to re-consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim  particularly in relation 
to whether there was damp and mould on their kitchen wall behind the sink  in line with 
their policy terms. I also said I intended to direct Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused them (this was in addition to 
the compensation of £100 Lloyds had already paid them). 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and, with Mr Bs agreement, arranged for an 
assessor to re-inspect Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen for damp and mould. 
The assessor found no damp or mould in the kitchen. I understand Mr B was pleased with 
this finding. But he said because of the leak, the back of one of his kitchen unit carcasses 
had collapsed. Mr and Mrs B wanted to claim for this. Lloyds said there was no evidence 
water damage has caused the unit to collapse and so turned down the claim. Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint then came back to me for a decision.
In my second provisional decision of 19 October 2020, I explained why I still intended to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part by directing Lloyds to pay them an additional £200 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused them. But I said I didnt intend to uphold 
their complaint about Lloyds declining their claim for the collapse of the kitchen unit carcass.
Mr B has given us some further comments on the complaint. Lloyds has accepted my 
findings. Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. For the reasons I 
gave in my first provisional decision, I direct Lloyds to pay them an additional £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused them.
But I dont uphold their complaint about Lloyds declining their claim for the collapsed unit. In 
my second provisional decision, I explained my reasons for this as follows:
Turning to Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the collapsed kitchen unit. Following a recent 
inspection, Lloyds assessor has confirmed in a report that all damp readings in the 
kitchen were well within acceptable levels. I understand when Mr B spoke with our 
investigator he said he was pleased with this. So Im assuming he accepts Lloyds 
findings.
But he told our investigator he thinks the back of one of his kitchen unit carcasses has 
collapsed because of the leak. And he says Lloyds assessor told him the spray from the 
leak would've damaged the unit because, being like chipboard, it would absorb and retain 
moisture. Mr B says the reason the unit has now collapsed is because its been left 
unrepaired after his claim was declined.
Lloyds asked its assessor to comment on this. He says the sink base unit was falling apart 
and the contiboard was blown in places but it would be difficult to say if this was because of 
the escape of water. He says where the pipe ran through the exterior cavity wall it would be 
most likely water would run off down the interior side of the wall and onto the floor. He says 
water stains could be seen on the floor beneath base unit and goes on to say:
In my professional opinion I would not [have] thought that the damage to the unit was 
caused by the [escape of water]. The general condition of the entire kitchen units on my 
survey visit was very poor and maintenance not carried out I would assume that this 
would most likely be the cause of the damage seen to the sink base unit. The [escape of 
water] may [have] added to this but as stated [is] not the major contributory factor.
Our investigator asked Mr B for his comments on what the assessor said. Mr B said the 
water wasn't dripping to the floor, it was a pinhole leak from the top of the pipe which he 
had arranged to be fixed by his plumber. He said it was spraying water through the pinhole 
which was being absorbed by the unit. Mr B has sent us his original plumbers report on 
the leak. It isnt easy to read but I cant see anything in it about a spraying leak.
Lloyds has turned down Mr Bs claim for the unit, saying the damage is due to wear and 
tear, rather than the leak. In doing so, it has relied on its assessors reports, which showed 
no water damage to any of the kitchen units at the time of the leak and no damp within the 
units subsequently. It says if the unit had been damaged by water, Mr Bs plumber (who 
fixed the leak) wouldnt have been able to make a hole at the back of the unit to repair the 
pipe. And it says the plumber made no mention of a spraying leak.
My role isnt to decide whats caused Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen sink unit to collapse. Rather 
its to decide if Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their claim for it. In 
making the claim, it is for Mr and Mrs B to show the damage was most likely caused by the 
leak. Based on the evidence Ive seen so far (both from Lloyds and Mr B), I dont think Mr 
and Mrs B have done this. So, again based on what Ive seen so far, I think Lloyds has 
acted fairly and reasonably in deciding its likely the damage to the unit Mr and Mrs B are 
claiming for was caused by wear and tear and not the leak. And, like most policies, Mr and 
Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover them for damage caused by wear and tear. So it follows that I 
dont intend to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
In response to my second provisional decision, Mr B has told us the plumber who fixed the 
leak at the time was Lloyds plumber, not his (although he paid for the work). Lloyds has 
accepted my findings. Having looked at everything again, I can see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my second provisional decision which now form part of this 
final decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put things right for Mr and Mrs B as I set out below.
My final decisionFor the reasons I gave in my first provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs claim in 
part and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay them £200 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them. 
For the reasons I gave in my second provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about the declined claim for their kitchen unit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman