DRN-1196656
 
The complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt stop her from making a payment when 
she was under duress.
What happened
Ms B attended a local branch with her husband on 9 July 2019. At that visit, she transferred 
£12,038.40 from her sole savings account to their joint account and removed her name from 
the joint account.
Ms B later complained that she was acting under duress from her husband at the time. She 
said hed been abusive towards her in branch and had expected the branch staff to intervene 
and stop the transactions.
She asked HSBC for compensation.
HSBC decided not to compensate her. It said she had requested the transfer. Also, she had 
signed the relevant forms authorising the transfer and the removal of her name from the joint 
account.
Ms B wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold it. She said HSBC had 
not made any errors as she had authorised the transfer in branch. She explained that HSBC 
had viewed its CCTV footage of them arriving and leaving the branch and couldnt see signs 
of duress. And she advised that the cashier said she didnt see any signs of duress.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I agree with 
the investigators view.
I dont doubt that Ms B felt under pressure to make the transfer but the banks internal notes 
have provided a context for what happened in branch. This information suggests it was more 
likely than not that Ms B consented to the transfer.
The cashier said Mr B was angry in branch but at Ms Bs spending habits which had affected 
their financial situation. She said he wasnt aggressive towards Ms B. According to HSBC, 
the cashier asked Ms B several times if she was happy with the transaction and she replied 
that she was. She duly signed the mandate forms, authorising the transfer and the removal 
of her name from the joint account.Ms B could have refused to sign the forms but I appreciate she was in a difficult situation. 
And whether through fear, guilt or embarrassment, she might have felt unable to refuse. 
However, the cashier could only respond to the events and instructions, which unfolded 
before her. She couldnt be expected to read Ms Bs mind or feelings or second guess what 
might have been happening at home.
Im afraid if Ms B consented to the transfer, reluctantly or under duress, she is still treated as 
having authorised it.
In these circumstances, I dont consider that its fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to pay 
compensation or do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman