DRN-2977856
The complaint
Mr W complained to our Service about the benefits which his pension provider is now 
allowing him to take. 
Mr W says that when he took out the pension policy, in 1993, he had transferred out of his 
pension from the armed forces pension scheme under what is known as a section 32 
arrangement. Mr W says he understood that all the benefits form his existing armed forces 
scheme would be either equal to or higher than the transferring schemes benefits. 
Specifically, Mr W now wants to access the pension at the age of 60, but has been told hell 
need to wait until he reaches the age of 65. Mr W isnt happy about this.
Scottish Widows Limited in now responsible for answering this complaint, although it was 
previously trading as Clerical Medical (CM). To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to 
CM.
What happened
Mr W says hes always been led to believe that he could retire at aged 60 (by which he 
means take money from this pension). In support of his view, he refers to a number of 
projections over the years which he says give examples of how much he might get at that 
age.
CM doesnt agree with Mr Ws interpretation and basically says that the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ws pension were always clear that retiring early was dependant on fund 
performance. It says the only ever guarantee was that the normal retirement age was 65 
years.
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into Mr Ws complaint. They agreed that it 
had been clear enough that 65 years old was the guaranteed age here. They also said that 
much of the paperwork Mr W would have received over the years did imply that the fund 
performance was coming up short of what was needed for the guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP) to be paid. At 65, the provider has to pay anyway, and take the loss.
Mr W doesnt agree with this and still wants to take the money out at 60, so as the complaint 
cant be informally resolved, Im making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done this, Im afraid I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Section 32 plans, like personal pensions, were money purchase arrangements. Typically, 
consumers like Mr W transferred from defined benefit pension schemes at around the time 
he did, with a view to growing their pension. This means their pension was invested and the 
benefits they might receive at retirement depended on how well the investments grew. 
It is true that the provider did agree to provide a GMP amount in this case, but this did come 
with certain conditions. One problem we often see is that the section 32 provider may not 
now allow early retirement, as in Mr Ws case at 60, if the pension fund isnt now big 
enough to secure the GMP amount. 
Im sure that in 1993 when Mr W transferred out of his existing pension scheme and took out 
the CM policy, his hope was that his funds might grow by quite a bit. And Im aware that 
investment projections then did tend to be much higher than they are now. But as our 
investigator pointed out, there are several documents which we can now refer to that did 
clearly point out that the GMP was only guaranteed at aged 65. Our investigator, for 
instance, pointed to the original rules which said: 
d. Guaranteed Minimum Pension is the annual rate of pension (if any) shown in 
the Certificate payable in respect of the Annuitant with effect from State Pension 
Date (the weekly rate of which is equal to the guaranteed minimum construed in 
accordance with Part III of the 1975 Act).
j. State Pension Date is the date of attainment of age 65 (if male) or age 60 (if 
female) by the Annuitant.
I can also see other documents essentially setting out the same provisions; for example, an 
update letter from the new pension provider, dated 13 August 1998, which said it only 
provided the GMP at state pension age, which at the time was 65 years old for Mr W.
Id like to assure Mr W that I have looked over everything we have about his pension 
complaint with great care and I do understand how disappointing he might find the situation 
hes in. Nevertheless, in my view, the terms were clear enough in saying that if the pension 
does not have enough funds in it before the policyholder reaches 65, then no benefits will be 
payable until then. Quite a few other updates and projections say the same thing.
I also note Mr W appeared to have a financial adviser back in the early 1990s and has 
worked with one since, so I do think the shortfall in his pension ought to have become 
obvious some years ago  thats what the documents Ive seen show. And whilst quite a few 
documents sent to us from Mr W, he says, demonstrate how he thought 60 might be the 
relevant age, these just collectively show him / his advisers only asking for illustrations at the 
age of 60. Im afraid this isnt the same as a guarantee. In short, these dont add anything to 
Mr Ws complaint points. From what Ive seen CM has been consistent in the 
communication; that it is highly unlikely Mr W was ever going to be able to take any benefits 
at age 60 due to the projections showing that the pension fund wasnt performing well 
enough. 
In summary then, I cant see that CM did anything wrong by not allowing Mr W to start 
drawing from his pension at the age of 60. 65 is the relevant age.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not require Scottish Widows Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman