DRN-3833053
The complaint
Mr W says Hansam Callum & Co, an appointed representative of IFA Network Limited, 
which was taken into Sesame Limited, is responsible for unsuitable advice to transfer his 
defined benefit (DB) pension into a personal pension. He says this has caused him financial 
detriment. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Sesame as the respondent throughout.
Mr W is represented by his financial adviser.
What happened
Mr W received pension advice from Sesame in 1998. The adviser was introduced to him 
through a family friend who had also been a public servant. He was told a personal pension 
would be more flexible than his membership of the DB scheme where he had deferred 
benefits.
Sesame has confirmed that Mr W was advised to transfer his DB pension benefits on 31 
March 1998. He accepted the recommendation and around £26,000 was moved to his new 
personal pension with Scottish Equitable in May 1998.
Following a conversation with his financial adviser in 2020/21, his representative says Mr W 
became aware there couldve been problems with what happened in 1998. It raised a 
complaint on his behalf in August 2021. It said there was no evidence the advice to transfer 
was in his best interests.
Sesame responded to Mr W in October 2021. It said hed brought his complaint too late to 
be considered. Mr Ws representative disagreed and brought his case to this Service. It also 
provided further information about his concerns  For example, it said Mr W hadnt been 
informed about the benefits he was giving up; no transfer analysis had been conducted; 
there was no assessment of his attitude to investment risk; and his wider circumstances at 
the time didnt suggest a transfer was appropriate.
An Investigator first thought about whether we could consider Mr Ws case. She concluded 
we could, but Sesame disagreed. An Ombudsman then considered our jurisdiction and 
concluded Mr W had raised his complaint in time so this Service could look into the merits of 
his case.
Sesame didnt respond to the decision. But to be clear, whenever a case comes to an 
Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a case, they must still consider jurisdiction. 
Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by the Ombudsman in his 
letter of 16 September 2022. 
Theres limited value in me rehearsing all the arguments again. But to summarise, Sesames 
main argument hinged on the three year limit for bringing cases to this Service. That is by 
when Mr W was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware of cause for complaint. It said he 
ought to have realised there was a problem as early as 2013 when he received annual 
statements from his personal pension provider showing that the benefits hed receive in 
retirement were much less than those hed have received from his DB scheme. 
I think the following extract from the ombudsmans decision neatly summarises the position:
I consider the annual statements to be part of the equation. The other part is what 
information the consumer has available from the time of the advice  so that they can 
compare what they were originally told with what theyre now being told (from the 
statements). As a crude example to illustrate the point, if a consumer had information 
showing that they would receive an annual pension of £20,000 from their OPS but the 
annual statements said their projected annual pension would only be £4,000 then there 
might be an argument that they ought to have put two and two together and realised that 
they had cause for complaint  particularly if theyre close to retirement and the projected 
figures hadnt changed too much in recent years.
But this supposes that the consumer had the figures from the time of the advice available  
if they didnt it would be difficult for them to make any comparisons  particularly if, as in this 
case, the advice was many years ago as memories fade over time. Mr W has told us that he 
didnt realise until he spoke with his representative in 2020/2021 that his OPS would have 
provided an annual pension of around £6,000. Weve asked Sesame to provide 
documentation from the time of the advice to show what Mr W was told but its told us there 
is nothing now available due to the passage of time. Weve also asked Mr W to provide 
copies of the documents he has from the time of the advice but hes said he doesnt have 
any.
It's difficult therefore for me to be absolutely sure what information Mr W was given at the 
time that he could compare with the pension statements. But as hes told us that he doesnt 
have any documentation, and as Sesame hasnt got anything either, its difficult for me to 
conclude that Mr W was in a position whereby he could compare the figures in the annual 
statements with what he was told in 1998.
Accordingly, based on the information I have, I conclude that Mr W wasnt in a position to 
make the comparison, and therefore to have a cause for complaint, until his representative 
told him what he could have received from the OPS. As Mr W referred his complaint to us 
within three years of being able to make that comparison, I conclude that it was referred to 
us within the three year time limit.
This Service can consider Mr Ws case.
Sesame was asked to provide its case file. But it wasnt able to provide much information 
from the time of the advice. It noted that the transaction happened 24 years ago and it 
wasnt required to keep documents for such a long period of time.
The Investigator had to base her review on what little information we did have, as well as 
referring to the regulatory environment at the time. On balance she thought Sesame 
shouldve advised Mr W not to transfer his DB pension given his circumstances. And that 
had it done so he wouldve remained in the scheme. She upheld his complaint. Sesame 
didnt respond with any new information or arguments.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ws 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Sesame for Mr W. Of course, I must be mindful that law, regulation and industry best 
practice have evolved over the past twenty five years. Whats required of firms now, wasnt 
necessarily the case in 1998 when it gave Mr W its advice.
Nevertheless, a good starting point for my consideration is the FCA Handbook. This 
contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms 
must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
While the Principles were formalised in 2001  a little after Mr W received advice - they 
were nevertheless built upon existing regulations and accepted practice. And I dont think 
any firm would argue that it wouldnt have tried to adhere to such standards prior to 2001. 
As such, they provide a useful framework for thinking about his complaint.
In any case, there were stringent rules and regulations in place at the time governing 
transactions like those undertaken by Sesame. For example in July 1992 FIMBRA Guidance 
Note No.7 and LAUTRO Enforcement Bulletin 16 (s1.11 onwards) set out in detail the 
features of the DB scheme which needed to be discussed before recommending a transfer.
The guidance required other options of doing nothing, transferring to a new employers 
scheme or a section-32 plan should be given equal consideration. A full analysis of the 
benefits available was expected to demonstrate why these options had been ruled out. And 
both regulators said they anticipated that many consumers would be best advised to remain 
in their DB scheme.
Further, in July 1994 FIMBRA Guidance Note No.14 and LAUTRO Enforcement Bulletin 31 
on future sales were released at the same time as the Securities and Investment Board 
(SIB) announced an industry-wide pensions review of past sales, sometimes called the 
Pensions Review. The wording in these notes is largely identical as it mirrored guidance 
released by SIB itself.
The guidance required a transfer value analysis (TVAS) for the first time, which was to be 
discussed with the investor in simple clear language. The regulators also required a fact find designed with pension transfers in mind would be needed and set out the information 
that should be captured from the investor and the pension scheme.
LAUTRO and FIMBRA guidance, was subsequently adopted by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA) in 1994. And Sesames predecessor firm was covered by the PIA.
Mr W said he was told that the transfer of his DB pension would be a better deal, more 
accessible and easy to do. He said he was persuaded to transfer as he felt he may get a 
better return with a personal pension, which he was told was more flexible.
Concerning whether or not Mr W had any prospect of getting a better deal, presumably 
meaning better returns than on his DB pension. I havent seen a copy of the TVAS report or 
relevant illustrations Sesame was required to provide him. So I dont know what his 
projected income wouldve been in his occupational pension scheme compared to the 
proposed new personal pension. 
However, Sesame gave Mr W advice during the period when the regulator was publishing 
'discount rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions 
Review. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
When the advice was given to Mr W the relevant discount rate was 7% per year for a person 
with 22 years to retirement. Its important to note that the financial viability test (FVT) was 
indicative of a rate of return that would be acceptable for individuals with a medium attitude 
to risk. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the 
middle projection 9%, and the lower projection rate 6% per year.
Theres no contemporaneous evidence about Mr Ws attitude to risk in 1998. But hes told 
this Service he had a low appetite for risk. I've taken this into account, along with the 
composition of assets in the FVT rate and also his term to retirement. I agree with the 
Investigator when she concluded in his circumstances it was more likely than not Mr W 
wouldve received lower benefits as a result of transferring to a personal pension than he 
wouldve in his DB scheme.
In addition, it wasnt just a matter of considering Mr Ws outlook on taking investment risk. 
Sesame had to consider his wider circumstances, including his capacity for loss. The 
deferred DB pension hed accrued during 13 years in public service was his only retirement 
provision, aside from any entitlement he had to state pension. It seems he had no other 
significant assets. So he had no or very limited ability to absorb any losses. 
Further, Mr W wasnt an experienced investor, and I havent seen anything to suggest he 
had the desire or relevant knowledge to be able to appropriately manage his pension funds 
on his own.
Based on the available information and these factors alone, its more likely than not the 
transfer of Mr Ws DB benefits wasnt in his interests. And Sesame hasnt been able to 
formulate an argument with evidence to demonstrate otherwise.
Turning to flexibility and accessibility. Even if I considered that in 1998 Mr W thought these 
were important features for his pension, I place little weight on them in terms of the 
recommendation and decision making process that shouldve been followed. 
I say this because at the time he was only 37. In terms of flexibility, while he mayve wanted 
to retire early, many people do. But the telling factor is when they have the financial means to do so. Ive seen nothing to suggest at the time this was a realistic prospect for Mr W. And 
in any event, in terms of access, he still had many years before he could consider taking any 
pension benefits.
Mr W had plenty of time to make a decision about whether or not to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. There was no need for him to give up his guaranteed benefits when he wouldnt 
have known what his income needs in retirement would actually be. And no pressing reason 
has been identified by Sesame as to why waiting wouldnt have been the right course of 
action.
Sesame was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr W 
about what was in his best interest for retirement planning in 1998. It knew pension pots built 
up over many years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when transfer is 
contemplated there needed to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the 
case here.
It was Sesames role to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont think its 
demonstrably met these obligations.
Based on the available information, I think Sesame shouldve advised Mr W to retain his DB 
scheme benefits. Had he been suitably advised Im persuaded he wouldve accepted this 
advice. I say this because its rare for someone to seek professional advice and then go 
against this.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.Im upholding Mr Ws case. So, he would need to be returned to the position he wouldve 
been in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures 
which I hold Sesame Limited responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Sesame Limited should pay Mr W the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Sesame Limited pays Mr W the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Sesame doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
I consider Mr W wouldve remained in his DB scheme. Sesame Limited should therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The calculation will need to take into account many data, including when Mr W retired. And 
whether hes added to his personal pension or taken benefits from it. It should be carried out 
as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Sesame Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Sesame Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sesame to pay Mr W. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sesame Limited deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. It should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Sesame Limited to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive established, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I now require Sesame 
Limited to put matters right in the way Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman