DRN-4078904
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy with how Cowen Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a 
claim they made under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, covering them for a trip they 
were taking between 19 September 2022 and 29 September 2022. The policy provided 
cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr H and Mrs H have explained that they travelled abroad as expected. But they ran into 
difficulties in respect of their return to the UK. Mr H and Mrs H have said they arrived at the 
airport to take their fight home. And the flight was showing as delayed on the relevant 
information boards. When they got to the check-in desk, they were told their flight had been 
cancelled due to air traffic control industrial action in the country they were in. 
Because of this, Mr H and Mrs H said they had to stay abroad for a further two nights. So, 
they booked accommodation and had to buy food and refreshments for this period of time. 
Mr H and Mrs H were able to secure a flight back to the UK on 1 October 2022  although 
this returned them to a different airport to originally planned. And they had to make their way 
home from that airport.
Mr H and Mrs H made a claim under their travel insurance policy, because of the above 
situation. Cowen considered the claim and accepted it. It accepted the claim under the 
travel abandonment section of the policy and said the maximum benefit under that section 
was £300, so that was the settlement it would provide in this instance.
Mr H and Mrs H questioned the section Cowen had considered the claim under. They didnt 
feel Cowens position that they only had a valid claim under the travel abandonment section 
of the policy was correct. Instead, they said they had a valid claim under the delayed 
departure section of the policy. They said their departure had been delayed due to industrial 
action. And this section of the policy provided a higher benefit amount of £240 per person, 
after a delay of 12 hours. They considered Cowen should therefore be settling their claim at 
an amount of £480, rather than £300. 
Cowen didnt agree. It said that Mr H and Mrs Hs departure wasnt delayed but was 
cancelled. And the travel abandonment section of the policy specifically covered that 
situation. So, it maintained its position on the claim. Mr H and Mrs H remained dissatisfied 
with this and referred their complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that Cowen had interpreted the relevant sections of the policy correctly. And so had acted 
fairly in dealing with the claim under the travel abandonment section, rather than the 
delayed departure section. So, they didnt recommend Cowen do anything differently.
Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree. Amongst other points, they said the primary cause of them 
needing to extend their trip was because of industrial action, which ultimately delayed their 
return home. They maintained that this was covered under the delayed departure section of 
the policy. 
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this be disappointing 
to Mr H and Mrs H  its clear they feel strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure the 
parties that I have considered all information provided to this service. However, when 
explaining my decision below, Ive only referred to what I consider key in explaining my 
reasoning. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Cowen acted in line with these requirements, when it accepted 
Mr H and Mrs Hs claim under the travel abandonment section of the policy, opposed to or 
in addition to, the delayed departure section of their policy. 
Ive also reviewed Mr H and Mrs Hs policy documentation, to see what cover the policy 
provided. Having done so, I can see the travel abandonment section of the policy provides 
cover for additional accommodation expenses and travel charges (up to the section limit) if 
the travel provider confirms that your transportation has been cancelled. There is also a 
separate section of the policy was delayed departure. And this says cover is provided 
(again up to the section limit), if transport is delayed at the departure point for more than 12 
hours because of set reasons. One of which is strike or industrial action. 
In this case it isnt in dispute that there was industrial action. And from what the parties have 
said, I understand it is also the case that the travel provider cancelled the flight in its entirety. 
Mr H and Mrs H had to obtain a different flight, to a different return airport. So, what Ive 
needed to decide is whether Cowen acted fairly in applying the travel abandonment section 
here, rather than the travel delay one.
I think it did. The travel abandonment section specifically provides for where transport is 
cancelled, and additional accommodation and travel expenses were incurred. It is clear that 
Cowen intends to confer a certain benefit under the policy for that scenario. I appreciate Mr 
H and Mrs H have said the primary cause of them returning home later than planned was the 
industrial action. But Mr H and Mrs Hs flight was cancelled. And they had to incur additional 
accommodation and travel costs. As this situation mirrors what the travel abandonment 
section says it will cover, I think it was fair for Cowen to deal with the claim under this 
section. Cowen has paid Mr H and Mrs H up to the policy limit of this section. So, Im 
satisfied it has acted fairly.
Im satisfied it isnt possible to claim under both the travel abandonment and delayed 
departure section of the same point. The delayed departure section confirms you cant 
claim under this section if you claim under the travel abandonment section. And as above, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for the claim to be dealt with under the travel abandonment 
section. So, I do think Cowen acted fairly in noting the delayed departure section wouldnt 
be payable in this instance. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Cowen Insurance Company Limited to do anything differently in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman