DRN-1748401
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr D 
feels Drafty should have asked for his bank statements before it granted the facility and, had 
it done so, it would have known that he was gambling and had a number of large payments 
each month to other creditors.
What happened
Mr D approached Drafty for a revolving credit facility in May 2018. The latest information  
received from Drafty shows Mr Ds account is part of a Debt Management arrangement with 
an outstanding balance of around £575.33.
Mr D was initially granted a £700 credit limit in May 2018 which was increased to £1,190 in 
August 2018. Mr Ds Drafty facility was a revolving credit facility where a customer could 
either request funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to 
their limit. 
In our adjudicators latest findings, he didnt think Drafty was wrong to approve Mr Ds 
facility. the adjudicator also considered the way Mr D had used his facility to see whether 
there was a point at which Drafty ought to have been concerned about financial difficulties. 
But he noted that Mr D only held the facility for a few months, and the way he used it 
wouldnt have concerned Drafty. So he didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Drafty appears to have agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
Mr D has told us he disagrees for the following reasons:
At the time of applying for the facility, he owed other creditors over £31,000
The credit reports also showed well over 50 searches for new credit.
Drafty didnt ask to review Mr Ds bank statements and
Drafty increased his credit limit after one month which Mr D feels was very 
irresponsible.
 
As no agreement was reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, taking into account all of the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When the facility was approved, Drafty needed to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
customer would be able to repay what they borrowed in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, Drafty had to gather enough 
information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear, Mr D wasnt given a payday loan where he was expected to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. Mr D was given a facility where there 
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of 
at least 12 months. So overall, I think that this means the checks Drafty carried out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr D would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
To begin with, Mr D was initially granted a running credit facility with a £700 limit. According 
to the credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount of credit on the first day of 
having the facility, and then repaid it over 12 months, he wouldve paid a total of £951.83. 
This means Mr D would have been expected to make monthly repayments of around £79.32. 
So this is the amount, at the start, that I think Drafty needed to consider whether Mr D could 
afford to repay. 
Before granting the facility, Drafty asked Mr D about his monthly income and expenditure. Mr 
D confirmed his monthly income was £1,750 and his monthly expenditure totalled £200. 
Drafty has told us that it completed an internal affordability assessment using national 
averages for expense categories. This resulted in it adding a further £198 on top of Mr Ds 
declared monthly expenditure. Based on the information the lender gathered, it was satisfied 
Mr D had enough disposable income to meet the repayments for a facility with a £700 credit 
limit.
Drafty also completed a credit check and has provided the results of this check. Drafty was 
aware that Mr D had nine active credit accounts open of which he had outstanding balances 
of around £28,200. His credit check results show he had no mortgage, no defaults and no 
delinquent accounts at the time of his application. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that it 
believed Mr D would be able to afford the repayments he was committed to making. While 
there didnt appear to be any adverse credit file information, the amount of debt may have 
been of concern to Drafty. But in the circumstances of this case, given the repayment 
amounts and term, I think it was reasonable of Drafty to have granted the facility. 
Mr D has provided this service with a full copy of his credit file, and I can see there were 
around 65 credit searches in the month before the Drafty facility was approved. However, 
given the information Drafty gathered from the credit reference agencies, it wasnt aware of 
this information at the time of granting the facility.
To be clear, when a lender carries out a credit search it may not see all of the information 
that a consumer has access to when they download their own report. Some lenders only ask 
for specific information, as was the case here. And given this was early on in the lending 
relationship I dont think it was unreasonable of Drafty to have gathered the information that 
it did from the credit search and secondly then rely on that information when forming its 
decision as to whether it was going to provide the facility. 
From what Mr D has told us about his circumstances, it seems he was going through a 
difficult time at the time he applied for his facility. Mr Ds main concern is that Drafty didnt 
ask him for his bank statements. Had Drafty done this, Mr D believes it would have seen the 
reality of his circumstances and that he was gambling at the time of the application. 
But at the start of the lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to have 
relied on the information it was provided and gathered. And the information Mr D declared about his circumstances, coupled with the results of his credit check, suggested he could 
afford the facility he applied for. So, considering the individual circumstances of this case, I 
dont think Drafty needed to do more such as checking Mr Ds bank statements before this 
facility was granted.
Of course it is possible that, had Drafty increased the credit limit on multiple occasions 
and/or Mr D wasnt using the facility as it intended, that we may think it needed to carry out 
further checks, such as asking for copies of the bank statements or other supporting 
documentation. But these things didnt happen and, at the start, I think it wouldve been 
disproportionate for Drafty to have asked to see Mr Ds bank statements. 
However, just because I dont think Drafty did anything wrong when the facility was granted, 
that isnt the end of the matter. At the time the facility was granted, the regulation of 
consumer credit had passed to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA guidance is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the relevant guidance says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
With this in mind, Ive considered the way Mr D was using his credit facility up until the point 
Drafty became aware that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. I can see Mr D 
requested his full credit limit of £700 as soon as he was granted his facility. He went on to 
make four repayments totalling £310.27 around a week later. He then proceeded to 
drawdown £200 bringing his closing balance to £611.83 for June 2018.
The July 2018 statement provided shows Mr D repaid what he owed in full by the end of 
June 2018. He then requested his full credit limit around a week later on 4 July 2018. I can 
see Mr D repaid £50 in-line with his repayment schedule before Drafty offered him a credit 
limit increase.
I appreciate that Mr D may feel at this time that Drafty needed to do more in-depth checks 
before approving the increased credit limit. But, given the manner in which Mr D was using 
the facility up to this point, and how he was managing his repayments, I dont think in this 
instance that Drafty needed to carry out any further or enhanced checks before offering the 
credit limit increase. 
In total, Mr D held his facility for less than three months and made four drawdowns during 
this time. So, I dont think, in this case, that Mr D had used the facility for long enough or had 
taken an unreasonable number of drawdowns for Drafty to have concluded that he wasnt in 
a position to repay the facility. 
So overall, I havent seen any information from either Mr D or Drafty which makes me think 
Drafty shouldnt have granted the facility or that it shouldve halted Mr Ds use of the facility 
before it did. So, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
I would like to remind Drafty of its obligations to treat Mr D fairly whilst he continues to repay 
his outstanding balance whilst on a debt management plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and I make no award against 
Gain Credit LLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.Robert Walker
Ombudsman