DRN-3140442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complained about a mis-sold mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
The mortgage and PPI have long since been closed and Lloyds Bank PLC is now 
responsible for answering the complaint. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs I its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs I genuinely and honestly 
feel the PPI was mis-sold to them. Their main point of complaint seems to be that they feel 
the PPI wasnt ever agreed to and must have been added without their consent.
Nevertheless, the sale of the PPI looks like it was in 1991 so these events are from 30 or so 
years ago. Its therefore understandable if they cant remember everything that took place.
Lloyds hasnt got any of the sale documentation left. Given the length of time involved this 
isnt unusual, or indeed unreasonable. But Lloyds does have some computerised records 
Ive been able to see.
My general experience of these types of Lloyds PPI mortgage sales from that time is that 
consumers were usually required to complete and sign a specific PPI application form to 
agree to it being added to their mortgage. I also note that Mr and Mrs I had had a mortgage 
since 1990, the year before this PPI sale, apparently without any PPI attached. This policy 
was taken out when they were asking to borrow more money on their mortgage. So, by 
definition, I think when they bought the PPI in 1991 during a further advance application 
they would have known it wasnt something you needed to have with a mortgage. I also 
think theyd have needed to authorise the monthly PPI premium to leave their account by 
signing a direct debit mandate, or similar.
I accept that none of this shows they definitely accepted the cover - but neither is there 
anything to say the policy was mis-sold either. And in very old cases like this, we need to 
think about what is more likely to have happened. As Ive said, my experience is that these 
types of policy did require the customer(s) to specifically give their authority and embark on 
several steps to sign up for the PPI. 
Having bought the policy  there is no dispute it was sold to them  I see no reason why the 
third-party insurers wouldnt have issued the policy documents or insurance schedule 
showing who and what was covered. Mr and Mrs I would have then seen the monthly 
premiums leaving their bank account and if theyd never agreed to all this, I feel they would 
have wanted to ask what the payments were for.
I therefore think its more likely Lloyds obtained their consent.
Lloyds concedes it would have probably recommended the PPI as part of an advised sale. 
This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs I appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for them, at £2.50 per month. Mr and Mrs I implied they didnt 
need the cover because they also had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive thought very 
carefully about this but Im afraid this doesnt make the PPI unsuitable. The mortgage was 
secured against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up 
payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the policy benefit 
was payable for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any other means they 
had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended to Mr and Mrs I, as an option, was unreasonable. I think the policy was a 
suitable product for their consideration.
 
Lloyds also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm now whether Lloyds did everything right, but having discussed the 
cover I think Mr and Mrs I would have been given the supporting literature explaining the 
policy rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs I but I dont find anything that supports their 
complaint that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint or direct Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman