DRN-4080040
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a holiday product which was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook Bank Limited and that it failed to uphold his claim for damages and 
compensation. The purchase was made by Mr and Mrs H, but the loan was taken out by Mr 
H so I will refer to him alone as the purchaser in this decision.
What happened
In July 2013, Mr H purchased a trial holiday product membership from a company I will call 
D at a cost of £3,200 which was funded by another lender. He also purchased an additional 
VIP Preview Week holiday at a purchase price of £795 which was paid by credit card.
In June 2014, he traded in the trial product for full membership and 7,000 points at a cost of 
£5,900. This was funded by a loan from Shawbrook of £8,277.12 which included a 
consolidation figure of £2,377.12 in respect of the earlier finance agreement.
D says that Mr H did not use his points but made two bookings using points-free marketing 
breaks. I note from Shawbrooks records Mr H said he was unable to take holidays at short 
notice and he had not been told he had to book a year in advance.
A claim was lodged in May 2017, but a professional representative (P) acting on behalf of 
Mr H. It said a proper assessment wasnt carried out into Mr Hs financial position and his 
ability to repay the loan. It said that Mr H had been unable to pay the earlier loan and this 
had meant he had to borrow more to clear his arrears which amounted to £8,277. This was 
wrong; as I have set out above the larger loan was to buy full membership and clear the 
remaining debt owed to the first lender.
It also said the product had been misrepresented by D. It said that Mr H was not told the 
contract lasted until 2054 and could possibly subsist in perpetuity. It also said there had 
been a breach of contract caused by the length of the contract and the lack of control over 
the management fees.
It also said that under s.140A Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 there was an unfair 
relationship. This was due to D being able to take possession of the product without 
factoring in the loan and because it believed Shawbrook had paid D a commission fee. It 
added that Mr H had been pressured into taking out the loan with Shawbrook.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He asked for bank statement from the time of the purchase but the two which were 
received showed only a few transactions and no evidence of an inability to pay the loan 
repayments.
He addressed the key matters raised by P on misrepresentation, breach of contract, the 
alleged unfair relationship and affordability and concluded there was no basis for saying 
Shawbrook had treated Mr H unfairly.
P didnt agree and made generic points about how D handled sales. It suggested that the 
paperwork had only been given out at the end of the sales process. It also referred to The 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and suggested the 
management charges element of the agreement contravened Regulation 5. It also said that 
D had exaggerated the benefits of membership. Subsequently it submitted a generic 
counsels opinion. I issued a provisional decision as follow:
I have seen little direct evidence from Mr H about the sale or indeed much in the way of 
facts from P. We have managed to piece together the background of the purchase made by 
Mr H which has given rise to this complaint.
Commission
P says Mr H wasnt told about commission which may have been paid by Shawbrook to D. 
As far as Im aware, the levels of commission normally paid in this situation (at the relevant 
time) werent high enough to mean that Shawbrook should have appreciated not telling Mr H 
about any commission paid risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under section 
140A.
If any commission was paid (which is not certain) I think its unlikely to have been more than 
10%. I cant see that Shawbrook would have breached any duty in making such a payment. 
And Im not persuaded that Shawbrook was under an obligation to disclose the amount of 
any commission paid in these circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the supplier 
was acting as agent to Mr H or owed him a fiduciary duty in this situation. I dont think the 
suppliers role was to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation. And Im not 
persuaded it was required to disclose any commission (that may have been paid by 
Shawbrook) to Mr H either.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership points and 
that it was arranged by D, the seller of the points. I must therefore consider Mr Hs claims 
about what he was told before he made the purchase.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
P says Mr H was misled about the length of the contract and that it could be held in 
perpetuity. I have noted the Key Facts document submitted by P and see that at paragraph 4 
it states that:
Subject to the following, your membership of the European Collection will last until 31st December 2054. On that date, the European Collection will be dissolved and your 
membership will terminate.
I consider this made it clear to Mr H the length of the contract.
Shawbrook has also explained that there was no obligation for customers to retain their 
membership until 31 December 2054 in any case. Part 3 of the Key Information Document 
which was signed by Mr H makes it clear that he could terminate the membership at any 
time by transferring ownership of his points to another party, and this includes back to D in 
its capacity as the club's Founder Member under certain "exceptional circumstances".
These are if a member is aged 75 or over, or has medical issues affecting their ability to 
travel or are experiencing financial difficulties, or the death of a member, or from February 
2015, by utilising the Non-Qualified Relinquishment option, through which a member may 
terminate their membership without needing to fulfil any of the forgoing criteria, upon 
payment of an agreed fee.
I also note that there is no effective requirement for the agreement to be held in perpetuity. 
The Articles of Association make it plain that the club will be wound up on 31 December 
2054.
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would uphold a claim for misrepresentation 
against D. It follows that Shawbrooks response to Mr Hs claims was reasonable.
Unfair relationship
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account connected agreements. I am satisfied that the 
contract with D was a connected agreement in this case.
For the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that Mr H was misled about the terms of 
the sale contract. The customer compliance statement also included:
We confirm that we have read the purchase agreement and key information document, 
together with our finance agreement  and are happy to proceed with our purchase.
He also signed the loan agreement which made it clear the terms and conditions of the loan. 
This included such things as the total sum payable and the monthly repayments. Again, that 
does not prove conclusively that the statements in the declaration were true, but I believe it 
constitutes very strong and persuasive evidence that they were  especially given the 
cooling-off period and the length of time before any concerns were raised.
Our investigator has set out the position clearly in her view. I agree with her conclusions.
Given the information Ive seen, I dont think:
The contractual terms were or are likely to be operated unfairly against Mr H.
There were any aspects of the relationship between Mr H and the business that were 
so unclear that he agreed to his purchase without knowing something that was 
important to that decision.The business conduct fell so short of the standard that could have been reasonably 
expected that it made the relationship between the two parties unfair.
Timeshare Regulation 2010
On the face of it, the contract which Mr H signed was compliant with those regulations. P has 
suggested that undue pressure was applied during the sale, but without providing any 
evidence in support of this claim. The documentation I have seen suggest that the 
regulations were followed by D.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
P says a proper affordability assessment wasnt completed. On the application form Mr H 
has said he had an annual income of £89,000 and assets worth £4 million. I gather 
Shawbrook didnt require income and expenditure information given the income and asset 
figures provided by Mr H.
I have considered whats been said carefully. I accept Shawbrook was required to undertake 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H was likely to be able to afford 
to repay the borrowing here sustainably. But, even if I were to find Shawbrook didnt do all it 
should have done when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the loan was 
actually unaffordable for Mr H in order to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr Hs circumstances at the relevant time. The two 
bank statements provide little assistance in understanding his financial position. I am aware 
he got into arrears, but reading the notes of calls made to Shawbrook these have arisen 
initially due to not being satisfied with the product. Latterly Ive seen reference to Mr H 
having a medical condition which affected his ability to earn. I dont consider either of those 
factors can be said to have been relevant at the time the loan was taken out.
So, on the evidence I have at the moment, Im not persuaded that this complaint should be 
upheld on the grounds it was irresponsible of Shawbrook to provide this loan to Mr H.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr H may have against 
the D or Shawbrook has merit. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think 
Shawbrook has treated Mr H unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly require 
Shawbrook to compensate him or do anything else.
P responded and said that it had provided significant submissions from Counsel as to the 
unfairness of the product sold. It added that the seller had provided Mr H with a guarantee 
against any losses he may suffer. It said this meant it wasnt proper credit and no proper 
credit checks were done. Mr H should have been advised of this. I asked for evidence of this 
guarantee. P responded with what appears to be a generic response covering 83 pages. 
This includes a generic statement regarding the product sold by D which Mr H acquired. It 
also included partially anonymised purchase and other documents from D to another 
purchaser along with a copy of Ds Articles of Association. Finally, it submitted what appear 
to be holiday searches using Ds system and similar searches using another holiday booking 
company.
P provided no explanation of its claim the loan was guaranteed or why that would affect my 
decision. Nor did it explain how the lengthy documentation related to this complaint and why 
my provisional decision should be altered. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the generic Counsels opinion I referenced this in my provisional decision. 
However, I must explain my role is to decide if it was reasonable of Shawbrook to reject the 
claim made by P on Mr Hs behalf. It is not to comment more broadly on wider issues in the 
timeshare industry or on Ds business. To that end I have addressed the arguments made in 
the claim submitted to Shawbrook, which did not include the Counsels opinion. 
That said, I did read it and I did consider if there was anything that I could identify that was 
relevant to the claim and the complaint over an above that which had been already raised by 
P. In essence it reiterated the points P had made and I have addressed those in my 
provisional decision. 
As for the assertion that D had guaranteed any losses Mr H may suffer, P has not explained 
why it has taken this view. Nor did it seek to explain in any detail why this should affect my 
decision. As such I have been given no basis for reaching a different conclusion. 
I have reviewed the 83 page submission and can find nothing which would lead me to 
conclude the complaint should be upheld. P has not sought to set out any arguments 
concerning Mr Hs specific complaint, but has relied on generic comments and a swathe of 
material without seeking to relate it to this complaint. Despite that I have reviewed the 
material and sought to identify any arguments which may support the complaint, but without 
success. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman