DRN-1978793
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt help him 
when he asked it to make a chargeback request, to refund money on accommodation he 
booked and wasnt able to stay in.
What happened
Mr B asked AmEx to raise a chargeback, because he said that accommodation he booked 
with his card wasnt fit to stay in. The drains were backed up, and there was a terrible smell. 
Mr B said he had to find alternative accommodation, so he wanted AmEx to get back the 
£292.35 hed paid for the apartment. 
AmEx wrote to Mr B to ask for more information on 11 June 2019. It gave him a relatively 
short deadline, of 21 June, to do that. But before this deadline was reached, AmEx wrote 
again on 15 June to say he hadnt provided information in time, so it had closed the case. Mr 
B complained, and AmEx said it would still accept information, so Mr B sent it in, on 29 
August. 
On 30 August AmEx declined Mr Bs claim and Mr B was told to talk directly to the merchant. 
It was clear that Mr B had contacted the merchant from information he had already sent 
AmEx. On 2 September Mr B told AmEx he had further information which would show the 
number he messaged about problems with the apartment was the same as the number he 
was given when he booked the apartment. He sent this to AmEx. AmEx said that it would 
reopen the investigation and review the evidence. But then on 3 September AmEx again told 
Mr B his case had been closed. it said it was only the billing agent, and he should contact 
the merchant directly.
When Mr B complained about this, AmEx said that it hadnt made and mistakes, and it had 
clear proof from the merchant that the charge was legitimate, which it received on 15 June. 
That was why it closed Mr Bs chargeback on 21 June. It later transpired that AmEx hadnt 
contacted the merchant at all. AmEx has also denied that the number Mr B messaged to 
complain about the property was the same as the number Mr B got as a result of his 
booking, although hed already shown it was the same. And Mr B had provided evidence that 
hed booked somewhere else for his holiday. 
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. He said AmEx just hadnt tried 
to make a chargeback request. And if it had done so, our investigator thought that it wouldve 
been successful. So he said AmEx should pay Mr B the disputed amount, and £100 in 
compensation for poor service. 
AmEx accepted it had given Mr B poor service, but it still didnt think the chargeback request 
wouldve succeeded. So it asked our investigator to reconsider that. But our investigator said 
that AmExs chargeback rules allowed a chargeback for goods and services that are not as 
described or defective. So he said the argument AmEx was making didnt fit with its own 
rules. He didnt change his mind.
AmEx maintained its position. It said that the dispute Mr B was raising wasnt about the core 
service hed purchased, it was about a problem which the merchant was apparently seeking 
to fix. And Mr Bs later evidence didnt prove that there was a problem at the time that he 
moved out of the apartment. 
Our investigator still didnt change his mind. He said that the advert for the apartment Mr B 
hired didnt say that the drains didnt work or that there was a smell rendering the apartment 
uninhabitable. So Mr B didnt get what he paid for. 
And AmEx also didnt change its mind. It said that the messages between Mr B and the 
merchant showed repairs were being attempted. It suggested that Mr B may have left before 
the merchant had a chance to complete these. Amex also said that it wouldnt expect a 
vendor to include unforeseen problems in its advertising. It said that it had correctly turned 
down his claim. 
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmEx has suggested that Mr B didnt give the merchant a chance to put right what was 
wrong with the apartment. But on a call Mr B had with AmEx on 2 September, Mr B 
explained the sequence of events. He arrived at the apartment, and noticed the smell. He 
tried running taps, to flush through the drains, and discovered the drains were backing up. 
He reported the problem, and was told it had been fixed while he was out. But it hadnt. Mr B 
said that the apartment had no working shower or bathroom facilities or toilet. And, 
especially considering his family circumstances, he felt he could not stay there. 
I dont think its reasonable for AmEx to suggest now that Mr B may have jumped the gun by 
leaving the apartment too early, when didnt raise this at the time, and it was told on a call on 
2 September that this was not the case. 
AmEx has also said it wouldnt expect a vendor to mention unforeseen problems on an 
advertisement, such as problems with drains. And its sought to frame this chargeback 
request as a complaint about the quality of the services Mr B received. However, the 
booking Mr B has says that the apartment has a shower and bathroom facilities. If these 
facilities are not functional, and efforts to make them functional arent successful, then Mr B 
hasnt received what he paid for. Thats not solely a quality issue. 
Like our investigator, I think that a chargeback request shouldve been attempted in this 
case. I cant be entirely sure whether it wouldve succeeded. 
Amex, conversely, cannot be sure that a request wouldve failed. The merchant may have 
accepted that there were problems with this apartment. Amex doesnt know, because it 
never asked. 
I do think though, given the extent of the evidence that Mr B has sent us, including what 
appears to be an acceptance from the merchant that there were problems with the 
apartment, and an agreement to stay elsewhere which was reached the day after he arrived, 
that Mr Bs chargeback complaint, if assessed fairly, was more likely than not to succeed. So 
I think that AmEx should pay Mr B the £292.35 that I think hes likely to have received if his 
chargeback was processed properly. I also agree that Mr B has received particularly poor service from Amex. So I think that 
AmEx should pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must pay Mr B 
a total of £392.35.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman