DRN-2934853
The complaint
Ms S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly allowed her to open a
credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms S says the Marbles credit card account was unaffordable from the time it was opened,
and that Marbles didnt carry out any affordability checks on it. She says if those checks had
been carried out then it would have been obvious the lending was unaffordable. Ms S says
the credit limit increases were also unaffordable, and she had other debts. She would like
compensation for what took place and for the distress she was caused. And would like all
charges and interest refunded. Ms S would also like her credit file amended as a default was
recorded on it.
Marbles says it did carry out appropriate checks on the account application and before
offering the credit limit increases. It says there wasnt any adverse data recorded on Ms Ss
credit file and she managed her account appropriately for some time after the last credit limit
increase. Marbles says Ms S told it about financial difficulties in July 2018 and the last credit
limit increase took place in July 2017. It says Ms S told it she had an income of £22,000 with
additional household income of £15,000 and calculated her debt as £5,600.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought
appropriate checks were carried out on the application in May 2016 and the original credit
limit of £450 was affordable. The investigator thought the later credit limit increases were not
appropriate and that Marbles ought to have carried out further checks and looked at Ms Ss
banks account statements. He thought Ms Ss debt had increased to over £10,000 and there
was evidence of Ms S using all of the credit limit as well as taking out payday lending. The
investigator thought that Ms Ss debt level reduced as her husband took out a loan for
£10,000 and recommended interest and charges be refunded.
Ms S accepts that view, but Marbles doesnt accept it. In summary Marbles says it used data
from the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) it uses and says it cant check all of the CRAs.
It says the payday lending was settled and couldnt know why Ms Ss debt reduced. It also
says it is not appropriate to check bank statements and maintains the account was well
managed for some time after the last credit limit increase.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said I have come to the provisional view 
that Marbles didnt make a mistake or act unfairly in offering the credit facility and by later 
increasing the credit limits.
I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit facility application. Those checks will of course vary 
depending on the type of lending and the amount involved. This was an application for a 
credit card account with a credit facility rather than for example a loan or mortgage and so I 
wouldnt have expected Marbles checks to be as detailed here as for those types of 
borrowing.
I looked at the application made in 2016 and could see Ms S declared an income of over
£20,000 and that she was in employment. I also saw there was additional household
income of £15,000 and so total household income of over £35,000 with what I thought was a
relatively low debt of just over £5,000. I was satisfied having looked at Marbles records that it
carried out checks on the application and that it took into account the lack of any recent
adverse information on Ms Ss credit file. So, I said I was satisfied Marbles carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on the application and approved what I thought was a 
relatively modest credit limit of £450. I didnt think the lending decision was irresponsible or 
unaffordable.
I could see that the credit limit was increased from £450 to £650 in August 2016. I was 
satisfied having looked at Marbles records that it carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before offering the increase and was reasonably entitled to consider that Ms S had 
managed the account reasonably well. I said that it follows that I thought the increase was 
affordable and was for a relatively modest amount.
In March and July 2017, the credit limit was increased in total to £2,050. I accepted this was 
a significant increase. But I was satisfied that Marbles did carry out affordability checks and 
did carry out further checks with the CRA it uses. I didnt think it reasonable or proportionate 
to expect Marbles to check with each of the CRAs or to have requested Ms Ss bank
statements to check her spending and or debt in these circumstances. I was satisfied that
Marbles was reasonably entitled to consider how Ms S managed her account and that she
made appropriate payments and appeared to manage her account appropriately. I didnt
think Marbles could have known that Ms Ss husband had taken out a loan for £10,000
which had the effect of reducing Ms Ss unsecured debt or that it ought to have carried out
any further checks on the credit limit increases.
I looked carefully at Marbles records and could see that Ms S managed her account
appropriately for some time after the last credit limit increase. I thought on balance that
suggested the 2017 credit limit increases were affordable and so not irresponsible. I could 
also see that in July 2018 Ms S told Marbles that she was in financial difficulties due to a 
change in her personal circumstances. I didnt think Ms S has told us what that change was, 
but I thought it likely it was that change that led to Ms Ss financial difficulties and not the 
opening of the credit card account and later credit limit increases.
I appreciated Ms S had other debts, but I thought she took out further borrowing sometime 
after the Marbles account was opened and sometime after the last credit limit increase in 
July 2017. I said I would look at the dates of that borrowing if Ms S provided further details 
and would like Marbles to provide the account statements from January 2017 to July 2018 
as it is far easier to review the account from that information rather than from its provided
spreadsheets. I didnt think Ms S had explained why she was in the financial difficulties as on
the face of it, its not clear, or if the difficulties were caused for example by her husbands
debt.
Ms S nor Marbles has responded to my provisional decision or provided the information I 
requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I have reached the same overall decision that I did in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman