DRN-1778818
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard's credit card eligibility 
tool didnt work properly. Mr H also complains about the way his queries and complaint were 
handled after he notified Barclaycard its system wasnt working. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclaycard accepts that its eligibility tool didnt work and application queries were 
handled badly. Barclaycard has apologised that it referred Mr H to an applications 
team when he could only apply online. I agree that Barclaycard should have handled 
the situation better. 
Mr H was given an alternative way of applying for the Barclaycard. I dont doubt that 
Barclaycards underwriters would have applied the standard criteria to Mr Hs 
application if it had been referred to them. Whilst I note Mr Hs concerns, I dont think 
the request that he reapply online and refer the application to its underwriters if 
wasn't approved was unreasonable. 
Mr H says he had to make alternative arrangements to repay his existing credit card 
balance and avoid paying interest. But as Mr H didnt complete a full Barclaycard 
application we cant say whether he would have been accepted or not. Mr H was 
given the option of applying online and took the decision to make alternative 
arrangements. 
Barclaycard upheld Mr Hs complaint, apologised and offered him £150. Ive noted 
everything Mr H has told us about how the application process impacted him. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that £150 is a fair way to resolve this complaint and recognises 
the impact of Barclaycards errors and service on Mr H. As Im satisfied Barclaycard 
has dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action now. I 
leave it to Mr H to decide if he wants to accept the £150 Barclaycard offered. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.Marco Manente
Ombudsman