DRN-2309328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund them transactions they say 
they didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a joint current account with BOS. On 1 and 7 September 2019 Mr S says 
that two transactions totalling just over £50 were made from his joint account using his bank 
card without his consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
Mr S says he discovered the disputed transactions when he was checking his account 
statements. And reported them to the bank on 17 September 2019.  Mr S has explained that 
he always keeps his card inside his wallet in his pocket. Hes memorised his PIN, doesnt 
have it written down anywhere and hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone. He believes his card 
was cloned and wants BOS to refund the transactions. Mr S says he was left short of money 
and caused a great deal of stress. 
 
BOS investigated Mr Ss fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions to 
him. It said Mr S had made the transactions himself or allowed someone else to make them. 
In summary they said:
Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
the transactions were made more than a week apart, which was unusual for a 
fraudster. And undisputed transactions were made in between the disputed 
transactions
the transactions were relatively small and looked like everyday spending
Mr Ss account activity suggested hed been on a day trip on 1 September 2019, and 
the disputed transaction on this date was most likely used for petrol
when Mr S reported the disputed transactions to the bank, it had offered to cancel his 
bank cards to prevent further fraud, but Mr S declined, and said hed sort things out
Mr S hadnt offered a plausible explanation for how someone was able to obtain his 
bank card and PIN
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. He said the evidence showed Mr Ss genuine card 
and PIN had been used to make the transactions. So, he didnt think the card was cloned. 
And he could see that Mr S made genuine withdrawals using the card during this period. So, 
a third party wouldve needed to take the card and return it each time it had been used 
without Mr S noticing he concluded it was most likely Mr S had made the transactions. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Mr and Mrs S and BOS have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr and 
Mrs S that Ive read the file, including Mr Ss comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed the banks technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ss card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable BOS to hold 
Mr S liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr S consented to the transactions being made or whether he is the 
victim of fraud as hes alleged.
 
Mr S is adamant that he didnt make the transactions and that no-one he lives with couldve 
done so either. And Ive also taken on board what hes told us about how he thinks his card 
was cloned at a shop. But having considered the available information, I dont think Mr Ss 
card was cloned. I say this because the banks technical evidence shows it was Mr Ss 
genuine card and PIN that was used to make the disputed transactions.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr S did 
consent to the transactions he is disputing. I say this because:
BOSs technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ss genuine card 
and PIN
Mr S has explained that his card was always in his possession and hed never 
disclosed his PIN to anyone else. And he still had his card when he reported the 
fraud to the bank. So, theres no plausible explanation for how an unknown third 
party would be able to gain possession of Mr Ss card and become aware of the PIN
Mr S has explained hed memorised his PIN, so I think its extremely unlikely that a 
fraudster would take Mr Ss card, guess his PIN, spend on the card then return the 
card to Mr S. And then run the risk of taking the card again days later
there are numerous undisputed transactions in between the disputed transactions 
the disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the 
card is cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
when Mr S called the bank to report the alleged fraud the bank offered to cancel 
Mr Ss card, but he told the bank he didnt want this to happen. Whilst I can 
appreciate Mr S might have thought this would cause him inconvenience, I find it odd 
that he wouldnt want to protect his money  if as he believed a fraudster was 
accessing his account. I think a reasonable course of action to take would have been 
to cancel the card and prevent further fraudulent spending
Mr S told the bank that hed never visited the petrol station where the first disputed 
transaction was made, but his account activity shows he went on a day trip on 1 September 2019 to a local attraction, and most likely filled up with petrol on his 
journey back home
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation is that Mr S made the disputed transactions himself.  So, in the 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask BOS to refund Mr and Mrs S the disputed 
transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman