DRN-3075418
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com. He 
isnt happy that he didnt get any refund under his motor insurance when he cancelled 
his policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr N took out an insurance policy with Aviva and chose to cancel the policy. He wasnt using 
his car during the pandemic and thought he would look to cancel his policy and gain a refund 
of premium. He expected to get just over £50 back.
But when he cancelled the policy Aviva went on to tell him that he wouldnt get any premium 
back. This was because there was a £50 cancellation fee. So Mr N complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She explained that 
it was clear from the policy documentation that Mr N had to pay a cancellation fee and so 
Aviva havent acted unreasonably here.
As Mr N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can understand Mr Ns frustration here, as he believes he should be given a refund for the 
remaining premium under his policy. He makes the point that the insurer has only pressed a 
few buttons in cancelling the policy. But this service accepts that there are costs involved in 
cancelling an insurance policy as Aviva explained to Mr N. So I cant say Aviva acted unfairly 
in charging Mr N the cancellation fee of £50, which is clearly outlined in its policy 
documentation.
However, it would appear that Mr N may have been owed a small amount of premium. I say 
this as Mr N was owed more than £50 so he should have got the remainder. There is a 
suggestion that some of this may have been taken up with Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). 
But Ive asked Aviva about this and it hasnt really provided any meaningful explanation or 
breakdown of the additional charge so I dont think it would be fair not to return this to Mr N. 
Importantly it didnt provide a clear explanation and breakdown to Mr N at the time of 
cancellation. And had Aviva have explained all of this to Mr N at the time of cancellation he 
may have understood things more clearly. Indeed, if Aviva told him at the time of 
cancellation that he wouldnt really get any refund if he chose to cancel because of the 
admin fee he may have simply remained on cover and kept his car insured rather than, in 
effect, lose money.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Aviva to pay Mr N a small amount of compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused in having to advance this complaint. And for not refunding the 
additional premium or clearly explaining to Mr N why he wasnt entitled to the additional 
premium once the cancellation charge was added. So, I think Aviva should pay Mr N £75 for 
the stress and inconvenience all this has caused him, which includes the small additional 
premium that he was owed.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr N said that he agreed with the findings 
and thought that the opinion outlined a fair and balanced response to his complaint. He still 
thought that the insurer acted in an unfair manor when it came to cancelling his policy but he 
accepted my provisional findings.
For its part Aviva reiterated its position. It said that it was entitled to charge IPT. And said 
that the government decided the level of this and as long as it has made a consumer aware 
of this fee it can charge it. Aviva said that Mr N would have been aware of the cancellation 
fee and that this was exactly the same amount that Mr N owed in outstanding premium and 
provided a few screenshots which it felt supported its position.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Im still minded to partly uphold this complaint. Aviva has said that it is 
entitled to charge IPT at the point of cancellation. But I would expect it to give a clear 
breakdown to a consumer of the costs involved in cancelling the policy, including any IPT 
charged, and it hasnt. Aviva said in its response to my provisional decision that as long as it 
made a consumer aware of this fee it can charge it, but it hasnt done this. 
In fact, the information on file suggests that the cancellation figure was £50 and that there 
may have been a few pounds charged in relation to IPT. But this was less than the figure 
Aviva charged Mr N and it appears to me that Aviva just rounded this figure up to the amount 
of premium owed under the policy at the point of cancellation. And, conveniently, it just 
charged that figure (the total premium refund owed) at the point of cancellation. I dont think 
that is acting in a fair and reasonable way. I would have expected Aviva to have provided 
Mr N with a clear breakdown of the costs incurred at the point of cancellation so that he 
clearly understood what he was being charged and why. Indeed, it still hasnt done this now.
Given all of this, I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case is for Aviva to pay Mr N £75 compensation (which includes the 
small amount of premium that seems to be owed here).
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com to pay Mr N £75 compensation.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman