DRN-3474012
The complaint
Miss F complains that Madison CF UK, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the 
fees and charges associated with the loans refunded.
What happened
In July 2016 and April 2017 118 118 Money approved loans of £1,500 and £1,356 
respectively for Miss F. The repayments were around £116 for the first loan and £106 for 
the second, both with terms of 24 months. When assessing the applications, 118 118 
Money asked Miss F about her financial circumstances and carried out a credit check 
before approving the lending.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and didnt think it was unreasonable of 118 118 
Money to have lent to Miss F. Via her claims management company, Miss F disagreed 
and asked an ombudsman to look at her case. However, she didnt explain why she 
didnt accept the adjudicators reasoning and outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
I need to look at whether 118 118 Money followed the regulations and good industry 
practice when considering Miss Fs loan applications. The first question is whether it 
gathered enough information about Miss F and her circumstances. The adjudicator 
thought that it did, and that 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate to the 
applications and what it knew about Miss F.
I think there were some flags on the first credit check that 118 118 Money completed 
for Miss F which ought to have led it to ask for more information. Those flags were the 
fact that she was using both her credit card and her overdraft almost to their respective 
limits, and that she had taken over £2,300 worth of cash advances in the previous 12 
months. Taken together, these facts raise potential concerns about financial 
management, and lead me to conclude that it would have been proportionate for 118 
118 Money to delve deeper.
In regard to the second check less than a year later, that showed that Miss F had taken 
out at least two additional loans in the intervening nine months, one substantial one for 
£10,000. However, it would also seem that a large amount of that loan had been used 
to pay down revolving credit on both the credit card and overdraft, and she was not 
taking cash advances as she had been. Also 118 118 Money had experienced no 
difficulties with Miss F as a customer, as she had maintained the repayments on loan 
one without problem. So for loan two, I agree that the checks were enough.
However, I then need to decide whether further checks and information when assessing 
the application for loan one would have revealed something that ought to have led 118 118 
Money to decline Miss Fs application.
118 118 Money could have gathered more information in a range of ways, but Miss F has 
been able to supply us with bank statements from around the time of loan one. So Ive 
looked at those to see whether there is anything they reveal which should have made it 
clear to 118 118 Money that this borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Miss F.
In short, there isnt. There is no evidence that she had a significantly heavier debt burden 
than she had disclosed in her application, or any compulsive spending habits. Whilst I 
acknowledge that at that point she was using a reasonably large overdraft every month, 
she managed it well, was continuing to save regularly, and the overdraft limit was 
sometimes less than 50% of her monthly income (which fluctuated over the months in 
question). So I couldnt conclude that she would have to borrow elsewhere to make this 
comparatively small repayment to 118 118 Money.
So, based on the available evidence, I cannot reach a finding that 118 118 Money ought to 
have identified that this borrowing would not be sustainable for Miss F when it assessed 
her applications. It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think that 118 118 Money Limited did 
anything wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman