DRN-4108038
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) did not 
uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (The Act), as well as its 
handling of the claim. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr F purchased a solar panel system from a supplier, which Ill refer to as 
Company E. As part of this, Mr F agreed to participate in a beta testing phase of a new 
product (referred to as a Smart Miner), which would generate renewable energy certificates 
that were sold, with Mr F in effect being paid 10p per kWh for the electricity generated by his 
solar panel system. 
Mr F paid for the solar panel system using his Bank of Scotland credit card. So, the 
purchase benefitted from the protection provided by Section 75 of The Act.
My understanding is that Smart Miner, the beta testing, and the benefits from it were 
provided via a separate company, which Ill refer to as Company R. Company E installed 
the Smart Miner as part of Mr Fs solar panel system so that Mr F could take part in the beta 
testing program. 
Mr F understood that the benefits of the system, including from the Smart Miner, Smart 
Export Guarantee payments and savings on his energy bills, would mean the system would 
pay for itself within five or six years. Mr F says that after three months his enrolment in the 
Smart Miner beta testing program was terminated and Company E removed the warranties 
and guarantees for the solar panel system. 
Mr F then made a complaint to Bank of Scotland, saying that the system had been 
misrepresented to him or there had been a breach of contract, since he was no longer 
receiving the benefits of the Smart Miner, which meant the system would not pay for itself 
within five or six years. So, he wanted a full refund and for the system to be removed and his 
property reinstated. 
Bank of Scotland rejected the claim. It said that there had not been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, and that Company E had in any case offered a full refund to Mr F, which 
he had not accepted. 
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She felt that Bank of Scotlands response to the claim had been reasonable. Mr F 
disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
Mr F has recently provided a surveyors report which he says shows the solar panels were 
incorrectly installed and require remedial work to ensure there is no water ingress into his 
property. Our investigator explained that evidence should be forwarded to Bank of Scotland 
for it to consider, as that was not available to it when it responded to the Section 75 claim I 
have been asked to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of The Act says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider and the supplier of goods 
or services if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I am 
able to consider a complaint about how Bank of Scotland, as the creditor, has responded to 
Mr Fs Section 75 claim. It is not my role to look at how Company E handled its relationship 
with Mr F or any complaints he made to that company. Or to look at any actions taken by 
Company R. Although Ive taken into account that after about three months Mr F no longer 
got any benefits from the Smart Miner beta testing program. 
It appears that Mr Fs relationship with Company E has completely broken down. 
Company E says it offered to remove the system and provide a full refund on two occasions, 
but that Mr F did not take up those offers. It then offered to remove the system but deduct 
the cost of doing so from the refund amongst some other conditions. Other than if that offer 
was taken up, which it wasnt by the deadline given by Company E, then Company E was no 
longer willing to deal with Mr F or to attend his property. Mr F didnt accept any of the offers 
from Company E and instead contacted Bank of Scotland. 
I understand that Company R terminated Mr Fs enrolment in the beta testing phase of its 
Smart Miner product and that it had a right to do so. It offered to refund the amount Mr F 
paid for the Smart Miner, which Mr F rejected. I think that what happened between Mr F and 
Company R, and Company Rs decision to remove Mr F from the beta testing program, is 
not something I can look at. 
I do not think this situation was reasonably foreseeable at the time the system was sold. At 
that time, it was a reasonable expectation that Mr F would be able to partake in the beta 
testing phase of the Smart Miner system, and at first he did so successfully. So, I do not 
think the projections of the likely income from the Smart Miner were a misrepresentation at 
the time of sale. 
The available evidence indicates the solar panel system is generating electricity as 
expected. So, there was no breach of contract in terms of how much electricity it could 
generate. The income from the Smart Export Guarantee and energy savings were derived 
from how much electricity the system would generate, so I dont think those figures were a 
misrepresentation either. 
I dont think the Smart Miner benefits were contractual  the quote describes the stated 
benefits as estimates and not guaranteed. Mr F was also enrolled in the beta testing phase 
of the product, and Company Rs terms and conditions stated it had the right to terminate the 
program (or an individuals participation in it) at any time. 
The issues, photos and roofers comments Mr F initially provided in terms of how the system 
was installed were considered by Bank of Scotland. But Company E explained to Bank of 
Scotland that the solar panels were installed to the correct standard. This appears more 
persuasive than the roofers comments, as they appear to have been based solely on a 
photo of the roof and in some cases suggesting checking with the supplier or the standards 
body to ensure it was installed properly. 
The surveyors report about these issues was not available at the time  so understandably 
was not taken into account by Bank of Scotland. If Mr F wants Bank of Scotland to consider 
that report and to pursue this aspect of the claim further, then he should forward the report to Bank of Scotland. I will not comment on that further since Bank of Scotland hasnt had the 
opportunity to look at the report. 
Mr F has complained that the warranties and guarantees were removed by Company E. 
But it appears those warranties and guarantees were provided by separate legal entities to 
Company E. So, Company E cannot revoke, cancel, or remove them, and it appears that 
they remain in force. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland obtained relevant evidence in order to consider 
Mr Fs section 75 claim. And I do not think its response was unreasonable, although it 
couldve explained its reasons more clearly. 
I have not found that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of 
Company E when selling the solar panel system. Or that Bank of Scotland shouldve done 
anything further in terms of the alleged installation issues based on the evidence that was 
available before it responded to the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman