DRN-1210726
 
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy with the standard of repair to their water tank following their 
claim under their home emergency policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). Mr and Mrs H 
(referred to by a previous name on the policy schedule) are joint policy holders. For ease, I 
will refer only to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr H reported to UKI that his water tank had exploded. UKI appointed a third party to handle 
the emergency repair. The third party completed the emergency repair and also 
recommended a replacement to prevent further damage. Mr H asked the third party to 
complete the replacement work. He paid the full cost of the replacement and successfully 
claimed under his home insurance policy. 
After the replacement, Mr H experienced low water pressure and a build-up of lime scale. He 
spent time and money on water treatments and lime scale devices but found that the 
problem was caused by damage to the water tank lining. 
Mr H complained to UKI because its third party failed to diagnose the problem when it 
completed the work. UKI said the replacement tank wasnt covered under the home 
emergency policy and the work was a private arrangement between Mr H and the third party. 
But he felt that UKI had a duty of care to refer competent third party companies.
Our investigator thought that UKI had acted reasonably and within the terms and conditions 
of the policy. She explained that the policy only covered emergency repairs and the 
replacement water tank was a permanent repair carried out as a private arrangement 
between Mr H and the third party. Therefore, UKI wasnt responsible for the work. Our 
investigator also said that UKI gave Mr H sufficient information about what his policy covered 
before he asked the third party to do the work.
Mr H didnt dispute that it was a private arrangement but felt that UKI had a duty of care to 
refer a competent company to him. Our investigator didnt think UKI had referred the 
company to him so it wasnt responsible for the work. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H disagreed. He thought that his insurer should make sure it only sent competent 
companies to complete repairs and he felt his concerns hadnt been properly understood.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I realise this 
isnt the outcome he wouldve hoped for, especially given his frustration that he hasnt been 
listened to. But I think its a fair outcome and Ill explain why.  
Firstly, Ill explain the way the insurance policy is set up so its clear why Im looking at the 
complaint the way I have. Mr H took out a home insurance policy, with home emergency 
cover, with one of the brands through which UKI provides cover. So although customers may 
think theyre insured by the brand, they are in fact insured by UKI and this is stated in the 
policy booklet. For home emergency claims, UKI appointed an agent to administer claims on 
its behalf. So the agent arranged the work, completed by a third party company, and 
responded to Mr Hs complaint on behalf of UKI. But UKI is still responsible for the claim. Mr 
Hs complaint only relates to the home emergency cover and Ill only refer to the insurer, 
UKI.
These are the facts that both Mr H and UKI agree on:
the home emergency policy covered the tank explosion;
UKIs third party attended and completed an emergency repair;
the third party recommended a replacement tank for the permanent repair;
Mr H asked the original third party to replace the tank; 
the permanent repair was a private contract between Mr H and the third party, and
his home insurance covered the permanent repair.
 
My understanding of the remaining issue and the point of the complaint is this: because UKI 
sent the third party to complete the emergency repair, Mr H thinks he shouldve been able to 
rely on that same third party to complete the permanent repair to the same competent 
standard. I think his assumption is reasonable. Id expect UKI to use competent companies 
to carry out emergency repairs on its behalf and it appears to have done so - Mr H hasnt 
said he was unhappy with the emergency repair. I also think its reasonable to expect that 
same company to be competent enough to complete a permanent repair. But Mr H doesnt 
think it was competent because he had problems with water pressure and lime scale after 
the repair. 
I understand that Mr H thinks the company shouldve told him that he needed to replace the 
water tank and he thinks the third party is responsible for the subsequent problems. But four 
years had passed before an engineer reported a possible link back to the original repair. 
During that time there had been numerous investigations which hadnt made the same link 
and I dont think its reasonable to expect UKI to offer an explanation now about what the 
original problem was. 
Mr H thinks UKI is responsible for the third partys actions. Im satisfied that its only 
responsible for the third party up to the point of it completing the emergency repair. After 
that, Mr H was free to use any company he wanted to complete the tank replacement. He 
chose to use the same third party and I agree that he couldve expected it to complete the 
work to a competent standard as it had for the emergency repair. But, whether or not it was 
competent, it was outside of UKIs control and responsibility as soon as it completed the 
work UKI contracted it for.
I am not disregarding the inconvenience and frustration Mr H experienced, or the time and 
expense in dealing with the subsequent problems. If the problems had occurred only as a 
direct result of the emergency repair, then I wouldve expected UKI to resolve the matter. Mr 
H says the problems occurred because the third party didnt do everything it shouldve done 
to complete the permanent repair. UKI had no involvement in that contract. So its my 
opinion that he hasnt pursued the company responsible for the work. If Mr H remains unhappy with the work the third party did directly for him, then he may wish to raise his 
complaint with the third party directly.
I understand that Mr H feels he didnt have time during the emergency to start looking for an 
alternative company to carry out the tank replacement. That is why he used the same 
company as UKI, assuming he could rely on it. I have no reason to doubt his view but it 
would be unfair for me to hold UKI responsible for that decision. It did what it shouldve done 
under the home emergency policy and Im satisfied its responsibility ends there.
In summary, Im satisfied that UKI fulfilled its obligations under the home emergency policy 
and I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman