DRN-3772816
The complaint
Mr S complained that the compensation offer of £275 made by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
respect of admitted delays when transferring his ISA from another financial services provider 
was inadequate. He felt the significant distress and inconvenience he was caused over 
seven months whilst the matter was unresolved warranted a payment of around £500. 
What happened
On 10 December 2020, Mr S requested Barclays to transfer his ISA from another high street 
bank to Barclays Smart Investor, an online execution-only investment platform Barclays 
offered to its current account customers with access to a smartphone. 
As a result of delays by both banks, the transfer took seven months to complete.
Mr S complained to Barclays about how long the transfer had taken. In addition to the 
anxiety this had caused him, he said the delays had limited his options for trading.
Barclays acknowledged there had been some shortcomings on its part. It had mislaid the 
completed transfer authority that Mr S had provided on 10 December 2020 but didnt follow 
this up until 8 January 2021. It subsequently located his signed transfer authority on 
12 January 2021 and forwarded it to the transferring bank the same day.
When it didnt hear back, it chased this up on 5 February and 18 March 2021. This prompted 
a response on 24 March 2021 and a transfer was made on 14 April 2021.
The transfer however hadnt been completed  Barclays told us that the cash balance and 
an asset that had been undergoing a corporate action during the transfer was not transferred 
until 29 June 2021. Barclays said it appeared to have been missed when initially arranging 
the transfer and due to a backlog of transfers and an increased workload it had failed to pick 
up Mr S transfer authority. Additionally, it said this also caused a delay in sending out its 
chaser emails.
Barclays said this wasnt the level of service it aimed to provide and apologised. It offered to 
pay Mr S £175 for distress and inconvenience this may have caused.
Barclays didnt identify any financial loss as it said if Mr S had wanted to trade he could have 
got in touch and Barclays would have assisted at that time. But it felt it had taken longer than 
it should have done to deal with Mr S complaint and offered him an additional £100 for that 
reason.
Mr S didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator was sympathetic but felt that the £275 redress offered in total by Barclays 
was fair and reasonable. So she didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything 
more.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He feels that the redress offered falls well short of what 
is reasonable in these circumstances to reflect the anxiety and distress over the seven 
months he was trying to establish that the transfer was taking place. He feels whilst both 
banks were culpable, the other bank had fully recognised its responsibilities and awarded 
him £250. As he considered Barclays was the lead party, he expected Barclays to pay more 
than this. Mr S compared his complaint to other cases he had seen in the financial press 
where higher compensation awards were made and also drew on other experience within his 
personal knowledge. He said he accepted Barclays apology and the £100 compensation for 
the second delay but felt strongly that £175 was paltry and an inappropriate amount in the 
circumstances.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As far as I can see, the background facts are not in dispute and as Barclays has upheld 
Mr S complaint I will concentrate on the question of fair redress, which is Mr S main 
concern now and the reason he has requested an ombudsman referral.
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if Barclays hadnt 
made an error  in other words, if it had not been responsible for delays and poor service in 
the course of actioning Mr S transfer request. 
I can completely understand Mr S frustration at the delay he encountered when it took so 
long to carry out his transfer instructions. Although the delays were not all Barclays fault, it 
has agreed that it was responsible for a severe breakdown in communication, it had 
overlooked his initial transfer authority and one of his assets and recognised that it had taken 
too long to send chaser emails and follow up with the other bank. 
It also failed to keep in touch with Mr S during the transfer process so he was unaware, for 
instance, that Barclays had told the other bank it could not accept one of the assets in his 
ISA which resulted in Mr S having to chase again on 11 May 2021. 
Subsequently, Barclays discovered the asset was available to trade and it set up a new 
instruction and emailed the sending bank with new trade and settlement dates. Barclays said 
the other bank appeared to have missed this on 17 May 2021 and another escalation was 
raised and it issued more dates for this asset. This explains why it took until 29 June 2021 
until the transfer completed in full, but much of this information was not communicated to 
Mr S at the time so he was mostly kept in the dark about what was happening throughout 
this period. 
I can appreciate these delays and the lack of communication were a significant worry for 
Mr S, keeping in mind that it took from 10 December 2020 until end-June 2021 to complete 
the transfer  effectively a period of almost seven months. Mr S told us that this ISA 
accounted for a large proportion of his retirement portfolio so, understandably, he was 
concerned.
Although Mr S mentioned his trading options were limited whilst the transfer was stuck in 
limbo, I havent seen enough to show that Mr S has suffered any financial loss  and he has 
said he isnt claiming any quantifiable loss. His main concern is that the full impact of the 
seven months delay is properly reflected in an award of compensation. Ive carefully considered compensation for Mr S given the frustration and worry hes 
experienced as a result of Barclays admitted service failings. I think that Barclays offer of 
£275 overall falls short of what I would consider fair compensation to reflect the significant 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S resulting from its failure to process his transfer 
authority within a reasonable timescale. 
I have noted that the cash in the ISA was sent to Barclays from the other bank on 
13 May 2021 and Barclays credited this to Mr S account the next day. 
I've also taken into account that Barclays reviewed its compensation offer at the request of 
our investigator and told us it believes the amount it offered is well within what it would offer 
on a complaint of this type. It said that as there were no new complaint points to consider it 
was unable to increase its offer.
Whilst the full seven months delay was partly caused by the other bank, I think Mr S was 
reasonably entitled to think Barclays should have done more to keep on top of things, 
especially after it added avoidable delay to the process when it mislaid the transfer authority 
at the start. Also bearing in mind, it was, as Mr S said, arguably the lead party responsible 
for managing the transfer. 
When it became clear that Barclays had also overlooked one of the assets it should have 
included in the transfer I think this was likely a further source of frustration and worry for 
Mr S whose confidence in Barclays and his patience was, understandably by now, sorely 
stretched.  
Effectively Mr S was left feeling stressed and anxious about what was happening with a big 
part of his retirement portfolio for more than half a year.
Barclays could have sorted things out much sooner had it handled the transfer more 
effectively. After overlooking the transfer authority for almost a month at the outset, it was 
another couple of months before Barclays chased up the other bank when it delayed. And 
when it was clear in April 2021 that the transfer was incomplete, Barclays failed to keep Mr S 
updated whilst it was still chasing the other bank.
I find that a payment of £400 is fair redress overall to reflect the impact on Mr S of the 
admitted shortcomings on the part of Barclays and the poor service issues I have mentioned 
above, throughout the time it took for his transfer instruction to complete.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S accepted what I said in my provisional decision.
Barclays confirmed that, after consideration of my findings, it has now agreed that it will 
increase its settlement offer to £400.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Barclays, in particular for responding constructively to my provisional decision. Given 
that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this 
complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £400 redress in total. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman