DRN-1747633
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Claim Hunters Ltd invoiced her for two successful claims for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
Lender L wrote to Mrs L to say shed been mis-sold PPI, and that she would receive 
compensation for this. She then received an email invoice from Claim Hunters for their 
success fee. Claim Hunters said Mrs L had instructed them to make the claims for her as 
part of a competition shed entered on a prize website.
Mrs L has complained that she didnt sign any Letter of Authority (LOA) for Claim Hunters to 
make any claims on her behalf. And she doesnt agree that Claim Hunters did anything.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence that convinced him Mrs L had entered a 
competition to win a meal out. And as part of the entry requirements for this competition, she 
wouldve been required to complete a survey about different forms of credit shed taken out. 
The investigator also said that, after completing this survey, Mrs L completed a PPI 
questionnaire. She also electronically signed an LOA, which allowed Claim Hunters to act for 
her. Claim Hunters then made the claims on her behalf. So, he thought Claims Hunters had 
done the work they were instructed to do and were entitled to charge their success fee.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators view. Shes said she wouldnt put her details into a 
website, as Claim Hunters said she did. She stressed that shed had no contact with Claim 
Hunters at any point before she received the emailed invoice, and that she didnt sign the 
LOA. Shes also said that she only spoke to Claim Hunters over the phone after she 
received the invoice and call recordings will prove that.
Mrs L also doesnt accept that the investigator reached his view based on probability  
whats more likely than not to have happened. Because Claim Hunters are chasing her for 
payment, and threatening legal action, she thinks that any decision must be made on hard 
proof. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The prize website has provided details of the transaction that resulted in the referral to Claim 
Hunters. These show the survey and questionnaire were completed on the morning of 20 
June 2019, and an IP address that covers the area of Mrs Ls address. Ive also seen the 
screens that would need to be completed. These make it clear that Claim Hunters were being authorised to make PPI claims. Theres also a check box to agree to Claim Hunters 
Terms and Conditions, and an LOA to be signed.
The signature on the LOA was done electronically. So this wouldve been done by either a 
finger on a touchscreen, or by using a mouse. By the very nature of how this is done, it 
doesnt look the same as a wet signature  one done with a pen on paper. No two wet 
signatures are exactly alike, and electronic signatures can look different to wet signatures. 
But this doesnt mean that electronic signatures werent done by who its said they were 
done by, or that they arent acceptable to instruct someone to make a claim.
Claims Hunters say they sent Mrs L a copy of their terms, and a cancellation form, to the 
email address she gave them. They havent provided a copy of this, but they have confirmed 
the email address it was sent to  this matches the email address Mrs L told us was hers. 
Their case notes also show the work they did to prepare and submit the claims for Mrs L.
Lender L wrote to Mrs L on 1 and 5 November 2019, telling her that her claims had been 
successful. These letters explained that, if she was unhappy with the CMC shed used, she 
could bring her complaint to us. Lender L also sent a copy of the letters to Claims Hunters. 
These letters show me that Lender L received the claims from Claim Hunters, and that they 
accepted that Claim Hunters were acting as Mrs Ls representative in her claims.
Lender L wouldve taken Claim Hunters authority from the LOA they would submit along 
with the claims. Mrs L says she didnt sign the LOA, but Ive seen nothing to show me that 
Lender L queried her signature or said that it didnt match their records.
Claims with two other lenders were also made by Claims Hunters but were unsuccessful 
because Mrs L hadnt been sold or mis-sold PPI. So these lenders also didnt query Mrs Ls 
signature or say that it didnt match their records. And I understand theres another claim 
where the lender has accepted the LOA as genuine but is still being investigated.
If Mrs L didnt complete the online questionnaire, and sign the LOA, then it mustve been 
done by someone else. And that person would need an IP address located in the same 
vicinity as Mrs Ls. And theyd need access to all of her personal details, and details of all the 
credit shed taken out in the past. And theyd need to be able to electronically sign in such a 
way as its passable for Mrs Ls signature. I think something like this happening is unlikely. 
Im aware this isnt the hard proof Mrs L is looking for. This was a remote transaction so, 
without video evidence of what Mrs L was doing at the exact moment the LOA was signed, 
no hard proof exists. And I wouldnt expect any such evidence to exist. So its reasonable 
that I make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened.
Given the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L instructed 
Claims Hunters to act for her. So I wont be asking them to reduce or waive their fees.
Mrs L is also unhappy about Claim Hunters attempts to recover their fees. She doesnt 
accept that she instructed them to act for her, so its natural shed find any attempts to collect 
the fee unwarranted and unacceptable. But they were entitled to charge their fees, so theyre 
entitled to chase for them.
In chasing for the fees, Claims Hunters have said theyll take legal action to recover them. 
This is a factual statement, although Mrs L may not want to have been told this. So I dont 
need to listen to the calls between Mrs L and Claims Hunters, where the fees were 
discussed, to make my final decision.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Claim Hunters Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman