DRN-3412374
The complaint
Mr C and Mr P are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has been reporting arrears of mortgage 
payments on their credit files. Mr P, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that 
Lloyds has refused to accept an offer of higher payments or to set up a direct debit (DD) for 
these. As a result, Mr C and Mr P believe it is unfair that arrears are continuing to be 
reported on the account. They are also unhappy about constant harassment, bullying and 
threats from Lloyds in relation to their mortgage account.
To settle the complaint, Mr C and Mr P want Lloyds to accept that a monthly direct debit of 
£620.27 covers the monthly mortgage payment and arrears, and to cease daily phone calls 
harassing them. They also want their credit files amended, and for Lloyds to provide a full 
apology and explain what steps the bank intends to take to ensure nobody else suffers 
bullying and harassment from it.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 4 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened to give rise 
to the complaint really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to 
determine why a complaint has been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr C and Mr P being identified, 
including details of their health or personal circumstances.
Briefly, Mr C and Mr P have a mortgage with Lloyds (under its residential lending business, 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) taken out in 2006. Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears in 
2010 and has remained in arrears ever since. In 2017, when the arrears were about 
£13,500, Lloyds was granted a possession order, suspended on condition the current 
monthly instalment was paid. There was no provision in the court order for payment of the 
arrears, but there was a money judgment in favour of Lloyds for the outstanding balance, at 
that point just over £70,000.
In 2021 a complaint was raised with Lloyds. Mr C and Mr P were unhappy that Lloyds 
refused to set up a DD for £620.27 for their mortgage (to include the monthly payment of 
£482.32 and a payment towards the arrears) without first going through an Income and 
Expenditure (I&E) assessment. As a result, they had to make payments manually. They 
were also unhappy that arrears going back six years were being reported on their credit files.
In its final response letter dated 7 July 2021, Lloyds explained that the required monthly 
payment to clear the mortgage in full by the end of the term was £620.27. Lloyds confirmed it 
had arranged for a DD to be set up. It was also confirmed that, without a formal payment 
arrangement in place, Lloyds was entitled to continue to contact Mr C and Mr P, and that 
legal action was still a possibility.
The bank clarified that if there were twelve consecutive payments, it would consider a 
request to consolidate the arrears, but this would require an I&E assessment to ensure it 
was affordable. Lloyds also explained that, because the account was in arrears, reporting 
this on Mr C and Mr Ps credit files was an accurate record of the account activity.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mr C and Mr P complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. They were very upset at the suggestion that Lloyds could take legal action against 
them, about its insistence on having an I&E assessment and about the reporting of arrears 
on their credit files.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.  In 
her letter dated 4 February 2022 she explained that Lloyds, as a responsible lender, was 
under a duty to ensure that any payment arrangement was affordable, and that it could only 
do this by carrying out an I&E assessment. She also explained that Lloyds was required to 
review payment arrangements on a regular basis and request updated I&E information.
The investigator was also satisfied that the reporting on the credit files was correct, as there 
was no formal arrangement to pay in place. The investigator wasnt persuaded thered been 
any breach of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by Lloyds passing on Mr C 
and Mr Ps information to solicitors and debt collectors, but that, in any event, this would be a 
matter for the Information Commissioner to determine.
With regard to the level of contact from Lloyds, the investigator was satisfied that this was 
reasonable, given that there were times when Mr C and Mr P didnt engage with Lloyds. She 
wasnt persuaded Lloyds had bullied or harassed Mr C and Mr P.
Mr C and Mr P werent happy with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. Theyve raised a number of questions theyd like us to answer, and 
say that the investigator has based her outcome on her own opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. 
Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So 
although Ive noted the questions which Mr C and Mr P would like answered, its not my role 
to put those questions to Lloyds or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
I must also explain that, as an informal dispute-resolution service, what we provide is our 
opinion on a complaint. At the initial stage, an investigator will give their opinion on the 
complaint; if either party doesnt accept it, an ombudsman will then review the complaint and 
issue their own opinion which, if accepted by the consumer, becomes legally binding on both 
parties. Given this, although Ive noted Mr C and Mr Ps criticism that the investigator has 
given an opinion on the case, that is, in fact, what she is required to do  and what I am 
doing too.The issue in this complaint is that Mr C and Mr P say Lloyds hasnt treated them fairly in the 
way its dealt with them. Specifically, they say Lloyds refused (until recently) to set up a DD 
for the amount they wanted to pay. Theyre also unhappy that Lloyds is insisting on them 
providing I&E information, and that the bank is reporting arrears on their credit files.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds took note of Mr C and Mr Ps health and personal circumstances, 
and that their account was transferred to an appropriate team to handled the account. I can 
see that there were periods when there was no contact from Mr C and Mr P, and that Lloyds 
did not try to contact them during those times. 
I note that, although the court order only suspended possession on payment of the current 
monthly instalment, the order was made five years ago. The arrears are still around the 
same level (just slightly lower) than they were when the order was made, but with five years 
less on the mortgage term for them to be repaid.
Request for I&E assessment:  Mr C and Mr P question why Lloyds is insistent on being 
given details of their I&E. However, Im satisfied that when a request for a payment 
arrangement is made under MCOB 13, Lloyds is required to decide whether or not the 
proposal is affordable. In order to determine this, it is reasonable for Lloyds to request I&E 
information from Mr C and Mr P. 
I appreciate Mr C and Mr P consider this to be unnecessary and intrusive, because theyve 
been paying the monthly instalment plus the extra amount and so, they argue, it is clearly 
affordable. However, given the account history, Im not persuaded Lloyds has acted 
incorrectly in requesting I&E information. It would not be right for Lloyds to put an 
arrangement in place without first checking affordability.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Credit reporting:  Lloyds is required to provide an accurate report of the account history to 
credit reference agencies. Where an arrangement to pay is in place, this is usually shown as 
AP on the credit file. If there is no arrangement in place to clear arrears, then the arrears 
will show as AR. Im satisfied that, because there was no arrangement to pay in place, 
Lloyds was correct in reporting the arrears on Mr C and Mr Ps credit files. Im not upholding 
this part of the complaint.
Refusing to set up a DD:  Before it could set up a DD for the current instalment plus the 
extra amount they were paying, Lloyds needed, as stated above, to ensure that this would be affordable for Mr C and Mr P. I dont think the bank has done anything wrong in 
explaining to them that it needed to do this. I understand the DD has now been set up and 
that Lloyds has made an exception in doing this without the I&E. Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
Breach of GDPR:  Mr C and Mr P say that Lloyds breached Data Protection legislation by 
passing on their details to third parties, specifically solicitors. It would be for the Information 
Commissioner to determine whether Lloyds has reached of the Data Protection Act or 
GDPR. But what I can consider is whether I think Lloyds has acted reasonably.
Im satisfied Lloyds is entitled to instruct solicitors to act for it, and that Mr C and Mr Ps 
consent isnt required in order for Lloyds to do this. That is because, pursuant to section 8 of 
the account Terms and Conditions, Mr C and Mr P have appointed Lloyds as their attorney 
to do (amongst other things) anything they need to do to exercise their rights under the 
mortgage. This means Lloyds doesnt need consent from Mr C and Mr P in order to instruct 
solicitors to take legal action. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Customer service issues: Mr C and Mr P are unhappy at what they say is harassment, 
bullying and threats from Lloyds. These are serious allegations, so Ive reviewed the account 
history in detail. This is a contemporaneous note of what is recorded on Lloyds system. As it 
records what happened at the time of the events, Im satisfied I can rely on it as being an 
accurate record. 
After reviewing the account history, Im not persuaded Lloyds contact with Mr C and Mr P 
amounted to harassment, bullying or threats. There were periods of no contact from Mr C 
and Mr P, and sometimes several months where, with no contact from Mr C and Mr P, 
Lloyds didnt contact them.  In the absence of a payment arrangement, Im satisfied Lloyds 
was entitled to try to contact them after payments werent made. 
I can understand how this might have been perceived as harassment, but the type of contact 
and the level of contact recorded in the banks contemporaneous account history doesnt 
appear to me to be excessive, or amount to harassment, bullying or threats.
It was reasonable for Lloyds  in the absence of any payment arrangement  to contact Mr C 
and Mr P to ask for their proposals, for also to ask them to complete their I&E details. Im 
also not persuaded that Mr C and Mr P were threatened with legal action; rather, Lloyds, in 
its final response letter, explained the importance of maintaining a dialogue with Mr C and 
Mr P, and that if it wasnt possible to discuss the arrears, legal action was a possibility. I can 
understand this was upsetting for Mr C and Mr P, but I dont think it was wrong of Lloyds to 
explain the importance of putting a formal arrangement in place in order to avoid any further 
legal action  and that this required a I&E review.
Conclusion
I fully understand that Mr C and Mr P have been through a very difficult time, and that their 
priority is on getting their mortgage back on track. But overall, Im satisfied the steps Lloyds 
has taken have been reasonable, and in line with its regulatory obligations to ensure any 
arrangement is affordable. Im also satisfied that the type and level of contact from Lloyds 
has been reasonable, in all the circumstances. I find Lloyds was entitled to pass Mr C and 
Mr Ps details on to its solicitors. (If Mr C and Mr P disagree with me on this, if they decide not to accept this decision, they can raise their concerns about GDPR with the Information 
Commissioner.)
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman