DRN-3860485
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with Santander in November 2010. His account limit was 
set at £3,400 and was never increased.
Mr B says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he had lots of debt elsewhere and had a 
gambling problem. Mr B says that if Santander had done proper checks it had would have 
known the credit was unaffordable for him.
 
Sainsburys says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr B and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the credit. It also said that it sent Mr B 
regular letters to inform him that he wasnt paying enough off his credit card to repay his debt 
in a reasonable period of time. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in relation to the initial 
lending. Our adjudicator thought that Santander ought to have done more to assist Mr B 
when he experienced financial difficulties, although they did not identify a point at which 
Santander ought to have intervened. Our adjudicator thought Santander should pay Mr B 
£200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Santander agreed with this resolution but Mr B disagreed, so the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision.
I came to a different decision to the adjudicator. I essentially agreed with them that 
Santander should have shown greater forbearance to Mr B when he was in difficulty but I 
more clearly identified the point at which I considered Santander should have shown that 
forbearance. I also said that I would direct compensation in line with our usual redress for 
such cases, rather than the flat £200 recommended by our adjudicator. This compensation 
would put Mr B more closely back into the position he would have been in had Santander 
shown forbearance at the point I considered it should reasonably do so.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision; Santander did not. Santander provided more 
information about why it felt it had done everything it should have done. It said it would agree 
to pay the previously suggested £200.
As Santander did not agree I have reviewed my provisional decision again and taken into 
account the further information and representations made by it. Having done so, I do not 
consider it materially changes my decision. I explain this further below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator and explained this in my 
provisional decision. I have no evidence to support a finding that the initial lending was 
unaffordable for Mr B, but I think that there were clear indications that the lending had 
become unaffordable for Mr B by 2019. And at this point I think Santander should have done 
more to show forbearance to Mr B. I will explain why I have come to this provisional 
decision.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Santander should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors might include:
Mr Bs income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments to a 
given credit amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mr B had been indebted, reflecting 
the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Santander says that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Mr 
B when he opened the account. Given the time that has passed since then it hasnt been 
able to provide the results of these checks, which isnt unsurprising.
Mr B says that he was in trouble financially and had borrowed heavily elsewhere. In the 
absence of evidence from Santander about the credit checks our adjudicator asked for Mr 
Bs bank statements from around the time he opened the account. Mr B was able to provide 
these. They showed that his account was often overdrawn but that essential expenditure -
including payments to loans and other credit cards  was around £850 a month with a net 
salary each month averaging around £1,700. There was also a regular cheque payment for 
£200 each month, but Mr B was not able to identify what this was for. Mr B told our 
adjudicator that he lived with his mother and that he contributed in the region of £600 a 
month to the household. However, this wasnt apparent from Mr Bs statements and he 
indicated that the arrangement was rather more informal, with him paying for things like 
flights and dinners on an ad hoc basis. 
Santander set Mr Bs credit limit at £3,400. If Mr B was to pay this full balance off in a 
sustainable way he needed to pay about 5% of the balance each month. At full usage this 
would have been about £170 a month. I think that from Mr Bs bank statements  the only 
evidence I have of his financial situation in 2010  that this would have been affordable for 
Mr B. Although Mr B says that he was gambling in a problematic way, this wouldnt have been 
directly apparent to Santander when it ran its checks.
So, on the information available to me I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it 
gave Mr B the credit in November 2010.
I have also looked at the conduct of Mr Bs account over the course of the agreement to 
date. On opening the account Mr B immediately made a balance transfer almost to his credit 
limit. He made small repayments to the account each month, equating to about 1% of the 
balance. As he paid off some of the balance transfer he made new purchases which kept his 
balance just under his credit limit. 
In late 2011 and early 2012 there is evidence of a significant number of gambling 
transactions, with at one stage in February and March 2012 Mr B spending several times his 
net monthly income. Each of these incurred a cash fee cost as they were treated as quasi-
cash transactions. 
During the course of those two months Mr B made lump sum payments on the credit card, 
which kept his credit balance just below his limit until he exceeded it in April and May 2012. 
In May 2012 Mr B paid off the entire balance. It is not clear what the source of this payment 
was but I think its likely he made a balance transfer to another account. 
Santander wasnt expected to stop Mr B gambling. It was up to Mr B to decide how to use 
his credit card. But these transactions should have begun to help Santander build a picture 
of how Mr B was using his credit. 
Over the course of the next three years Mr B used the card for normal purchases of goods 
and services, with only the occasional gambling transaction. He continued to make minimum 
repayments without paying off much, if any, of the capital borrowed. By August 2015 he had 
reached his credit limit again and in September and October 2015 and January 2016 he 
exceeded it. 
At this point Mr Bs use of cash transactions began to increase. He continued to make 
minimum repayments and remained over his credit limit for eight out of 12 months in 2016, 
incurring charges each time. This pattern continued over the period 2017 to March 2020 with 
Mr B regularly over his credit limit and making minimum repayments. 
On 13 March 2020 Mr B made two large transactions to pay off his outstanding balance. 
Five days later he began a week-long gambling binge, spending up to £1,000 a day. He 
exceeded his credit limit again and remained in this position until June 2021 when he again 
paid off his balance in full. Within two months he had made further purchases taking him 
over his credit limit and he remained over his limit until January 2022, when he again made 
several larger payments to reduce his outstanding balance significantly. This is the latest 
point of data I have available to me. 
Businesses are obliged to monitor a consumers repayment record and any other relevant 
information held and to take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible 
financial difficulties. 
Santander has explained it considers it met its obligations to Mr B by regularly sending him 
letters which explained the implications of making low payments towards his balance. It did 
this at least eight times, with at least five of those letters in the period January 2018 to 
November 2020. It also sent Mr B letters when over a period of 18 months he had paid more 
in interest, fees and charges than hed repaid towards the capital he owed over the same period. Santander says that Mr B didnt respond to any of these and didnt tell it he was 
experiencing any financial problems.
I dont think this was enough. While Santander may have met the minimum statutory 
requirements in terms of notifying Mr B of the implications of his continued pattern of 
payment and providing contact details of debt advice bodies I think it needed to go further 
than this when it became clear that Mr Bs difficulties were not short-lived and temporary. 
Although a customer paying only the minimum required under any agreement is not, by 
itself, necessarily a sign of possible or actual financial difficulties Santander should also have 
taken into account other factors. In Mr Bs case I consider this to include the length of time 
over which he had been indebted, the pattern of making large repayments following many 
months of only meeting minimum repayments (indicating the shifting of balances between 
cards), the gambling transactions sometimes equating to several months salary over a 
period of a few days, the regular cash withdrawals and the regular exceeding of his credit 
limit. I think all of these factors combined to indicate that Mr B would not be able to repay his 
balance in a reasonable period of time. 
I have thought carefully about the point at which Santander should have realised that Mr B 
was unable to sustainably repay his debt and intervened to offer forbearance.
I think that by January 2019 it was clear that Mr B was in difficulty and that he needed 
greater intervention from Santander than the generic letters it had sent. I say this because in 
the year preceding this he had exceeded his credit limit in seven out of those 12 months. He 
had also used the card for gambling and Santander could see from his earlier use of the 
card that this was not an isolated case. Mr B had managed his account in a similar way in 
the past, specifically in 2011 and 2012  although in those instances Mr B had made large 
payments to his account, too. His account management to April 2016 seemed to be 
acceptable, with only four late payments in that time and only relatively few gambling 
transactions of low value. From June 2016 to July 2017 Mr B was over his limit in ten of 
those months. There followed a period of reasonable management of the account, albeit at 
levels where Mr B used about 95% of his available credit each month, before June 2018 
when he slipped again into being unable to stay within his credit limit. By January 2019 I 
think Mr B had shown a pattern of account conduct which should have caused Santander to 
intervene. 
Essentially I have come to a similar finding to our adjudicator  that Santander should have 
done something when it was clear that Mr B was unable to manage his persistent debt. 
However, I have identified a specific point at which I think Santander should have shown 
active forbearance. And I disagree with our adjudicators suggested remedy - £200 
compensation. I think Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
have been had Santander shown forbearance at the point I consider it should have done. 
Santander responded to my provisional decision with further submissions. I do not intend to 
reproduce them in full here. It is sufficient to say that Santander makes the following main 
points:
It acknowledges there were times when Mr B did not manage his account well and 
Santander reported negative information about that, but Mr B was able to rehabilitate 
his account.
Conduct of Mr Bs account and reporting by TransUnion (Santanders financial data 
provider) did not indicate a consumer in financial hardship.
If Santander had restricted Mr Bs card he would not have been able to use it for day to day expenses.
Mr B did not seek assistance other than in 2011 and 2021 which minimised 
Santanders chances of intervening and assisting him.
I do not consider that any of these points constitutes new information that I have not already 
considered. A careful reading of my provisional decision (and, now, this decision) explains 
why I do not consider these points make a difference in Mr Bs case. In relation to the 
restriction of Mr Bs card preventing him using it, this is really rather the point. Santander 
needed to act to prevent Mr B getting further into debt that he could not sustainably repay, 
whether this was for day to day expenses or otherwise. I dont think Santander is seriously 
suggesting it actively chose to allow Mr B to continue managing his account in the way he 
did out of concern for his welfare. 
I also remind Santander that it had previously accepted the adjudicators suggested 
settlement on the basis that the adjudicator considered it had not acted fairly. Santander did 
not do this on a clear goodwill basis or indicate that it didnt agree with the view. All my 
decision serves to do is explicitly set out the point at which I consider Santander should have 
shown forbearance and brings the redress in line with our usual compensation in such 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I think Santander should have frozen interest and charges on Mr Bs account from 4 January 
2019. However, Mr B has had the benefit of the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, Santander should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges from 4 January 2019.
If the rework results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Santander should also remove all adverse information recorded in 
relation to the account from Mr Bs credit file.
If, after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance on the card Santander should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
B has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 4 
January 2019 should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided Santander UK Plc acted unfairly by not showing forbearance when it was 
clear Mr B had enduring financial problems which meant he could not pay his debt off in a 
reasonable time in a sustainable way.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman