DRN-3238307
The complaint
Mr H has complained that his insurer Zenith Insurance plc was notified that his car was no 
longer being held by the police but failed to act. He says he has seen his car being driven 
and hes unhappy as hed wanted the vehicle returned to him. 
Mr H held a car insurance policy with Zenith when he was involved in an incident which led 
to a claim. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident and a claim was made against his policy with the insurer 
Zenith in June 2019. The police arranged for Mr Hs car to be recovered from the scene and 
his car was put into police hold. This meant that until the police authorised the release of Mr 
Hs car, it would remain in storage with a recovery agent and Zenith wouldnt be able to take 
any action on Mr Hs behalf as his insurer.
Mr H has made other complaints against the insurer and other parties about this claim. They 
do not form part of my decision as they have been dealt with separately.
Mr H has complained that the police told him it wrote to Zenith to say the car was no longer 
on hold but that Zenith failed to take any action. 
Zenith didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said in a call with Mr H in July 2019 it explained that 
as Mr H wanted to us his preferred repairer, when the police removed the on hold status 
from his car, it was for Mr H to let Zenith know and for Mr H to arrange for his repairer to 
collect the car. 
Zenith said that in August 2019 it wrote to Mr H to tell him it would not be responsible for 
incurring storage charges.
Mr H told us that he was advised that his car was released from being on hold by the police 
in December 2019 - and that two days later the police informed Zenith. Two weeks later the 
recovery company authorised the disposal of Mr Hs car due to no contact from Zenith. 
Zenith said it didnt receive any notification that his car had bene removed from being on 
hold. Zenith believed that because it wasnt notified to pay the storage charges, the recovery 
company would have written to Mr H as the registered keeper of the car  and believed they 
sold the car to recover their debt and remove the car from their property. Zenith suggested 
Mr H contact the recovery company. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt find that Zenith had done anything wrong. There was no evidence it 
had been notified of a change to the hold of Mr Hs car. And from the call in July 2019, she 
thought Zenith had made it clear to Mr H that once he was told his car had been removed 
from being on hold he should let Zenith know, to prevent further storage charges from 
accruing. 
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view. He felt either the police or Zenith were lying. 
Our investigator explained that this wasnt the outcome she had reached  but that there 
wasnt any evidence that Zenith had received any notification of his car being removed from 
on hold. 
Mr H wants an ombudsman to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H feels Zenith is responsible for the fact that his car wasnt returned to 
him once it was removed from being on hold by the police. But Ive considered the file notes 
provided by Zenith and the information provided by Mr H. Having done so, I havent found 
anything to show that Zenith received any notification of a change to the holding of Mr Hs 
car. And from the call recording provided by Zenith from July 2019, I think it clearly explained 
that when Mr H was made aware of a change  as he didnt want to use an approved 
repairer  he would need to arrange for his preferred repairer to collect the car  and he 
would need to let Zenith know immediately so that it could deal with any storage charges. 
I realise Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision. And I can understand his upset at 
seeing his car being driven when he wanted it returned to him. But based on the information 
available, I cant say that Zenith has done anything wrong. So this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman