DRN-2824336
The complaint
Mr B has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding him liable for a personal loan which 
he didnt apply for.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr B was approached by someone he barely knew on social media. He was 
asked if hed allow them to use his Barclays current account to receive money and then 
transfer this elsewhere. Mr B was reassured by the people he was discussing this with that 
this was all legal and hed be paid about £200 for allowing this.
After providing his bank details, the fraudsters managed to get him to share a one-time 
password and got him to delete his mobile banking app, as well as getting access to Mr Bs 
debit card. As Mr B didnt have access to his account, he wasnt sure what was going on.
He was then approached by these people again. They took him around different branches 
and got him to withdraw money from his account which they said was theirs. Mr B wasnt 
keen on doing this but felt extremely threatened and intimidated. He followed their 
instructions telling branch staff why he wanted to withdraw the cash. Three withdrawals were 
made of £2,000, £8,000 and £2,000. The latter two at different branch counters.
Mr B then thought this was all over until he started getting a number of letters to his home 
address which made his mother wonder what was going on. These were letters about the 
set up of a personal loan but Mr B knew hed not applied for any loans.
Mr B told Barclays hed not applied for the loan nor benefitted from what had happened. 
They believed Mr B had provided access to his account to a third party so was possibly the 
beneficiary of the fraud that had taken place. They continued to expect him to repay the 
loan.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt Barclays should have identified the patterns of unusual payment 
behaviour in line with existing best practice. Overall as Mr B had not consented to the loan 
application, she asked Barclays to write off the loan. There was also a further loan that had 
credited Mr Bs current account from another provider. She also asked Barclays to refund 
this loan or put funds into a suspense account until our services investigation into that loan 
also concluded.
Barclays didnt agree with this outcome. Mr Bs complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 5 May 2021. I believed there was no evidence Mr B 
had applied for the loan with Barclays and therefore they could not hold him liable for 
repaying it. However I would expect Mr B to repay a small amount of money that the 
fraudsters seemed to have left with him.
Mr B accepted this outcome. Barclays didnt and repeated a number of things theyd said 
before about the disputed transactions on the account. 
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considered Barclays most recent comments, my reasoning remains the 
same as in my provisional decision. Ill explain below.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If Mr B didnt complete the loan 
application or benefit from the money, can Barclays still hold him liable? 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from Barclays including details of the 
loan application which was completed online. Weve also got evidence from Mr B including 
what was reported to the police after he allowed someone to use his account. 
I dont believe theres any dispute Mr B didnt take out the loan. Barclays has given us no 
argument why Mr B would have done this  unless he was involved with the attempted fraud 
and Ive seen no evidence this is the case. I can also see the application for this loan was 
completed using Mr Bs phone during the time he was being engineered to do what was 
asked of him. I believe the limited physical evidence matches what Mr B has told us.
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr B didnt apply for the loan.
Barclays has stated they thought there was nothing wrong with the loan application so didnt 
agree that they should have picked this up earlier. I didnt say in my provisional decision they 
should have.
Ive seen from both Mr Bs evidence and Barclays that £13,000 was paid into his current 
account as a result of the loan application. This coincides with the time Mr B was 
approached by the fraudsters to go to branches and remove the money that had been 
credited. Three payments of £2,000, £8,000 and £2,000 were removed. I can see Barclays 
staff asked Mr B why he was taking out the cash. He provided them with the answers hed 
been told to provide.
Mr B also used his debit card to buy foreign exchange on behalf of the people who told him 
theyd paid some money into his account. Ive noted all the transactions our investigator 
referred to in her view of 27 January 2021. 
Mr B has told us he felt threatened and anxious throughout what was happening. I can well 
understand that to have been the case.
However Barclays has stated Mr B allowed another party to use his account details and was 
therefore party to a fraud. I think initially Mr B did think through the implications of what he 
was being asked to get involved in. I can see he wanted to be reassured nothing illegal was 
going on. However he was also happy to accept payment for allowing his account to be 
used.
Mr B has told us he was paid £100 in the end but actually looking at the payments that were 
made after £13,000 from Barclays and £3,500 from other loan credited his account, it looks 
as if he may have gained by just under £480. Transactions which debited his account on 
9 March indicate that Mr B was abroad for a short while. I believe the online transactions completed on 27 February which our investigator initially thought may have been fraudulent 
were in fact completed by Mr B.  
I dont dispute part of Barclays argument that Mr B allowed someone else to use his account 
and made him carry out disputed transactions. But my decision isnt around those 
transactions as Ive concentrated on the loan application. I dont think theres any question 
Mr B regrets the decision he made to get involved with fraudsters but neither do I believe 
Mr B was aware of what was going on.
Ive considered Barclays argument that Mr B was party to the fraud but I dont think he 
knowingly was. From what weve seen of the evidence, Mr B had no awareness that two 
loans had been taken out in his name. I can also see that he contacted the police to let them 
know what had happened.
Although Mr B may have been paid in return for allowing someone to us his account, Ive not 
seen enough evidence to show Mr B benefitted from the credit agreement that was the 
personal loan. 
Overall and on balance I believe Mr B didnt apply for this loan. As Barclays has no 
contractual agreement with him and I cant see that Mr B benefitted from the funds, they 
cant ask him to repay the money or lodge any data about this agreement on his credit 
record. 
Putting things right
On the basis Ive decided Mr B didnt take out this loan, or benefit from it, I will be asking 
Barclays to clear any information from Mr Bs credit record about this loan and stop asking 
him to repay any debt. However I will be asking Mr B to repay £478.06 to Barclays in return 
for this arrangement. I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable for Mr B to benefit from 
what turned out to be a fraud perpetrated on his bank. Mr B has already confirmed that he is 
happy to do this as soon as any decision is complete.
There was another loan taken out from another financial institution. This is being dealt with 
by a separate complaint in Mr Bs name.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Stop pursuing Mr B for repayment of a loan as he didnt apply for it; and
Remove any information from his credit record relating to this loan, including the 
default data.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman