DRN-4377708
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complain about delays in Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds  
(Watford) handling of their claim following the theft of a catalytic convertor, under their motor 
insurance policy.
I will refer to Mr S to denote both complainants in my decision. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr Ss catalytic convertor was stolen from his car. This happened
whilst it was parked on his driveway. He says that having considered his options he decided 
to make a claim to Watford ten days later. There was a delay in the car being collected. 
When it was collected Watford told Mr S it was repairable.
After some time, further damage was found. This was caused by water ingress into the boot
of the car. This happened whilst it had been left waiting for repair. The water damaged the
hybrid vehicles battery and resulted in it being categorised as a total loss. Mr S says
it took many months for a settlement payment to be provided. During which time the
settlement offer was reduced, and when disputed, reverted back to the original offer of
£5,400.
Mr S says Watford has caused unnecessarily long delays. He and his brother had to use 
public transport and incurred costs in doing so. No courtesy car was provided. This caused 
problems as Mr Ss father is disabled and there was no other car to provide transport
for him. Mr S says he bought a car in February 2023 to try and mitigate the cost of taxis. He
says this was necessary as he and his brother work unsociable hours.
In its complaint response Watford acknowledges Mr S had taken a day off work to allow
collection of the car. This didnt happen as agreed and a later date had to be arranged. 
Watford says its engineers report was initially delayed. This meant it wasnt known if the car 
was economically viable to repair. Watford offered £40 compensation to compensate for 
these failings. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Watfords response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He says Watfords communication with Mr S during the
handling of his claim was poor. There were also avoidable delays in reaching a total loss
decision. He says there were further delays in providing a settlement payment, which at the 
time of issuing his findings had yet to be provided.
Our investigator thought Watford should pay Mr S a further £110 in compensation.
In addition, he says it should pay 8% interest on the settlement payment from 28 April 2023,
when the total loss was confirmed, until the payment is made.
Mr S didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider
his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Ss complaint. But I think Watford
needs to do more to put things right. Let me explain.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules our service can only consider a
complaint once the business has had the opportunity to respond, or where this takes longer
than eight weeks. Watfords final complaint response is dated 6 April 2023. It refers to a
delay in the collection of the car, and a delay in assessing the repair costs. Since this time, 
its approach to Mr Ss claim changed from repairing the vehicle, to it being considered a total 
loss. This involved further delays and a dispute around the settlement payment.
I asked Watford if it would agree to our service considering the further delays and settlement
payment issues. It responded to say it agreed so an overall resolution can be achieved more
quickly. It says Mr S has since accepted its settlement figure. And it provided updated claim 
notes for me to consider. My decision will therefore include these delays and the settlement 
payment issue, up until this was paid in June 2023.
Mr S made his claim on 23 January 2023. His car wasnt collected on 1 February as agreed. 
This meant Mr S arranged a day off work unnecessarily. The car was then arranged to be 
collected around a week later.
Ive read the engineers report dated 14 February 2023. This says the car is repairable.
Watford has supplied a timeline of events. This shows it approached three repairers. They
were unable to take on the work. A repairer was sourced in early March. Another engineers
report was produced on 6 March. This says the car wasnt repairable due to further damage
sustained through water ingress. The battery in the hybrid car had to be replaced. This
significantly increased the cost of the repairs. The decision was then made to categorise the
car as a total loss.
Ive read the engineers report. This shows the cost of repairs was in excess of the vehicles
estimated market value. The car was an economic write-off based on this information. The
report provides a valuation for Mr Ss car based on the industry trade guides. The
engineer also listed similar vehicles that were advertised for sale. He valued the car at
£5,400. Given the cost of the repairs exceeded this amount, I dont think the total loss
decision was unreasonable.
I cant see that this decision was communicated to Mr S at the time. Watfords claim
records include an internal note, from 20 April 2023, referring to the engineers total loss
decision. Eight days later the records say it was agreed to proceed on this basis. It was at
this time that Mr S was informed of the settlement offer.
The records show Watford contacted Mr S on 22 May 2023 to say it was in a
position to settle the claim. The email says their car has now been valued at the lower
amount of £4,820. After the policy excess this meant a settlement payment of £4,500. The
records show this amount changed again on 26 May. I can see Mr S disputed the
lower figure in an email dated 1 June. Watford then agreed to pay the original settlement
figure of £5,400, less the policy excess.Ive thought about whether the evidence shows Watford handled Mr Ss claim
effectively. Some level of inconvenience is unavoidable in the event of a claim like this. But
we expect an insurer to handle claims effectively to avoid unnecessary delays and 
inconvenience. I dont think Watford handled this claim effectively.
In its submissions to our service, there is reference to adverse weather conditions at the time
the claim was made. But the impact this had on Watfords claim handling hasnt clearly been
explained. I can see that there were several repairers who couldnt take on the work initially.
The indication being there was an issue with repairer capacity in the locality at that time.
From the claim records it took ten days, from the first repairer declining the work, until the job
was accepted.
I accept there were issues when Watford first tried to appoint a repairer. Also, when
collecting the vehicle from Mr Ss home. But none of this was his fault. The business 
doesnt explain why it took from 23 January to 24 February 2023 for contact to be made with
the first repairer. I think a month is excessive to arrange this.
Mr Ss car was further damaged whilst in the care of Watfords appointed agent.
Until this point it was confirmed as repairable. Its not clearly been explained how this
happened. But Id expect Watford to ensure vehicles are stored appropriately, whilst awaiting
repair. It didnt do so here resulting in the car being written-off. This decision was confirmed
in the engineers report at the beginning of March 2023. But the settlement payment wasnt
provided until the beginning of June.
I havent seen a reasonable explanation as to why it took so long to provide the settlement
payment. There are several different claim records showing different valuation amounts,
from April through to June 2023. I think this further demonstrates poor handling, and an 
overall confused approach to settling Mr Ss claim.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr S and his brother. They bought a car on 
21 February 2023 as it wasnt practicable to be without one. Mr Ss father is disabled and
required transport to be provided for him. They also highlight the unsociable hours they both
work. They took public transport where they could but needed to use taxis at other times. In
the circumstances I think Mr S and his brother acted reasonably to mitigate the loss of their 
car.
Ive read Mr Ss policy terms to see if cover is available to provide a courtesy car. It
is. The terms say, if you have Comprehensive cover and Your Car is repaired by one of Our
Approved Repairers, You will be supplied with a small manual hatchback Car while Your Car
is being repaired, subject to availability.
Mr Ss loss was reported on 23 January 2023. I think the car should reasonably
have been collected within a week. This didnt happen. A courtesy car should then have
been provided from the beginning of February. This didnt happen either. In these
circumstances our service considers it reasonable for compensation to be provided at £10
per day to acknowledge the loss of use of a vehicle. Watford should pay this from 1 February
up to the point Mr S had use of the replacement car he was able to buy. In total
this means it should pay £200 for twenty days loss of use.
Ive also thought about the delay in providing a settlement payment. The car was reported as
a total loss on 6 March 2023. I think its fair that Watford adds 8% simple interest from this
date until the payment was made in June.
Mr Ss car became a total loss whilst in the care of Watfords agent. This shouldnthave happened. This meant he had to replace their car. I think its reasonable that he and 
his brother are compensated for the inconvenience and frustration this caused.
Ive also thought about the standard of customer service and the delays Mr S and his brother
experienced. Communication was poor, as can be seen from the lack of contact made by
Watford, and its agents, with respect to updates and when relaying its engineers findings.
The car wasnt collected when agreed initially, resulting in Mr S taking a day off work
unnecessarily. The settlement value was also reduced, without clear explanation. This
required further contact from Mr S. 
It shouldnt have taken Watford approximately five months to settle the claim. This has
caused Mr S and his brother a great deal of disruption and inconvenience.
Having considered all of this, I think Watford should pay Mr S a further £500 compensation 
to acknowledge its poor claim handling and the impact this had.
Finally, Ive looked at the settlement payment Mr S was offered. We dont provide
valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In
assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the motor
trade guides.
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Due to the age of Mr Ss car we could only obtain a valuation from one more of the
trade guides. This valued the car at £5,323. Ive checked that the valuations Watford
obtained used the correct vehicle make and model. As well as the mileage, condition, and
valuation date. The information it used was correct. These valuations were for £4,940 and
£5,287.
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of
values where different trade guides are used. Based on this Watford offered a settlement
payment that falls slightly above the range of the trade guide valuations Ive seen for Mr 
Ss car. So, I dont think it treated him unfairly when offering the amount it did.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Watford should:
pay Mr S and Mr S £200 compensation for the loss of use of their car;
pay 8% simple interest on the delayed settlement payment for the period beginning 6
March 2023 until this was paid; and
pay Mr S and Mr S £500 compensation for the frustration, inconvenience, and 
distress it caused them.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr S responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
Watford responded to say it wanted to challenge my findings. It says that loss of use isnt 
covered in its policies and that this isnt something its able to pay. 
In its submissions Watford says there was a delay spanning a period of nine days. It says 
this was from 1 February 2023 when an appointment was made to collect the car - up until 9 February, when it was collected. It also says Mr S didnt make a claim until 23 January, 
which means it took 16 days from him claiming, until his car was collected. 
Watford says the delay cant be considered from the day Mr S claimed. This is because 
resources would need arranging. It says assuming no issues, a five-day turnaround would 
normally be expected. It considers £500 compensation to be extreme given the 
circumstances and asks for a breakdown to support such a high level of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Watford has said in response to my provisional decision. But this 
doesnt persuade me to alter my findings.
In its representations Watford comments on the time taken to collect Mr Ss car. It agrees it 
failed to collect it on 1 February 2023 and Mr S took a day off work to allow this. But it says it 
was only responsible for a nine-day delay and doesnt agree with the compensation I said it 
should pay. 
In my provisional decision I detailed a number of different failings on Watfords part to 
support my findings and recommendation for it to pay compensation. Ill reiterate these 
points, here. 
The records show Watfords engineer determined the car was repairable in a report dated 12 
February 2023. It first contacted a repairer on 24 February 2023, which was around a month 
after the claim was made. Its not been explained why this took so long. The repairer couldnt 
do the work. An alternative garage was subsequently appointed in early-March.  
Another engineers report was produced on 6 March 2023. The car was then categorised as 
a total loss. This was due to battery damage caused by how the car had been stored with 
Watfords agent. It wasnt until the end of April that Watford finally told Mr S his car was 
considered a total loss. A settlement value of £5,400 was confirmed.   
On 22 May 2023 Watford told Mr S it was in a position to settle the claim for the lower 
amount of £4,820. This amount changed again, four days later. Watford subsequently 
agreed to pay the original valuation for £5,400 at the start of June. 
Based on this evidence Watford is responsible for damaging Mr Ss car so that it was no 
longer economical to repair. This meant he had to find a replacement. It handled the claim 
poorly to start with when arranging collection. It took almost two months to communicate the 
total-loss decision. And in total it took around five months to provide a settlement payment. I 
think this shows Watford handled Mr Ss claim poorly. In these circumstances, given the 
delays, inconvenience and disruption caused, I think £500 compensation represents fair 
compensation.   
Mr S was able to mitigate the loss of his car by purchasing a replacement, which he did on 
21 February 2023. He explains that he and his brother needed a car to commute to work. 
Their father also relied on them to provide transport for him due to his disability.
Mr Ss policy provides for a courtesy car whilst repairs are being completed. In my 
provisional decision I said a car should reasonably have been provided on 1 February. This 
is when Mr Ss car was supposed to have been picked up. Mr S took reasonable steps to mitigate the problem at an early juncture by buying a 
replacement car. But this still left him and his brother, without a car for a period. As I said in 
my provisional decision I think its fair that the business pays Mr S compensation for the loss 
of use of his car at £10 per day. I think Watford should reasonably provide a payment 
covering the period from 1 February 2023 until the replacement car was bought on 21 
February. 
I note what Watfords policy terms say about not paying for loss of use. But its reasonable 
that the business provides compensation where its poor handling of a claim impacts on a 
customer. This is an established approach taken by our service. I think this is appropriate in 
these circumstances. 
Having considered Watfords further comments, Im not persuaded to change the outcome 
set out in my provisional decision.      
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr S and Mr 
Ss complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited should:
pay Mr S and Mr S £200 compensation for the loss of use of their car;
pay 8% simple interest* on the delayed settlement payment for the period beginning 
6 March 2023 until this was paid; and
pay Mr S and Mr S £500 compensation for the frustration, inconvenience, and 
distress it caused them.
*If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman