DRN-4328254
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy because although Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance upheld his unaffordability complaint, the interest applied under his 
agreement hasnt been removed and he isnt sure of his outstanding balance.
What happened
Mr V took out a personal loan with Novuna for £3500 repayable over 48 months at £126.66 
per month. 
Mr V raised a complaint in January 2023. He said he had a gambling addiction and 
outstanding balances on several credit cards before he applied for the loan with Novuna.
Novuna reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It agreed to remove all interest applied to the 
agreement and refund statutory interest of £4.58. However, the capital amount of the loan 
would still be repayable.
Mr V is unhappy because the online portal shows the full outstanding amount due under the 
loan agreement, which includes interest over the term of the loan.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that this service wasnt able to require 
Novuna to change its internal procedures. The investigator said he was satisfied that the 
outcome of the affordability complaint left Mr V in a favourable position.
Mr V didnt agree. He said that every time Novuna provided him with an outstanding balance 
it didnt match with his calculations. He said he was obliged to provide his debt management 
plan administrator with up to date information every month and has had to wait a long time 
for Novuna to provide the information hes requested. Mr V said that in Novunas final 
response letter it told him that his remaining balance would be £3,157.36 but he couldnt see 
that this had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the final response letter that Novuna sent to Mr V in relation to his 
unaffordability complaint. This states that the complaint is upheld, and that Novuna will 
remove all interest applied to the agreement and all future interest. It also says that Novuna 
will refund 8% statutory interest (amounting to £4.58). Novuna confirmed that once the 
interest had been removed, the remaining balance under the loan agreement would be 
£3157.36. 
Mr Vs current complaint is that Novuna hasnt removed the interest it said it would remove. 
Novuna has told this service that the online system will still show the interest balance as per 
the original terms. Once the capital balance has been repaid in full, the agreement will be 
settled, and Mr Vs credit file updated.
I understand why Mr V has found it difficult to see how much he has left to repay under the 
loan agreement. The online system will always show the interest balance, so I dont think 
this is a particularly helpful place for Mr V to obtain information about the outstanding 
balance. 
I cant uphold Mr Vs complaint about this, because this service cant require Novuna to 
change the way it presents information on its online system. 
Novuna has said that Mr V can call them whenever he wants to obtain an updated balance. 
It has also said that an updated balance can be provided to StepChange upon request.
Novuna has also confirmed that to date, Mr V has paid £454.29 towards the £3500 he 
borrowed, leaving a capital balance of £3054.71 (this figure was provided by Novuna to this 
service as of 15 June 2023). Mr V should be able to work out the outstanding balance on a 
month to month basis by deducting the amount he has paid via his debt management plan 
each month.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Novuna has made an error here, or 
that it has treated Mr V unfairly or unreasonably.  Im therefore unable to uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman