DRN-2575661
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of, H, of which he is a director that AXA Insurance UK Plc has 
increased its buildings insurance premiums by 625% between 2012 and 2019.
 
What happened
H is the management business for a block of flats. AXA insures the building within a portfolio 
of similar properties.
Mr M said H paid a premium of £448 in 2012. He said there was a one-off incidence of 
subsidence and the premium rose to £6,151 in 2018 and H was quoted a premium of 
£38,446 in 2019. He said this was unfair and it was causing the residents to pay much more. 
Mr M complained to AXA about the increase in premiums in 2019. He also complained that 
the subsidence claim in 2011 for damage to Hs property had to be made again in 2015 as 
there was further damage. He said the second claim shouldnt have been necessary if AXA 
had carried out the repairs properly and had affected the premium.
AXA said the increase was due to the frequency and cost of claims incurred at Hs block of 
flats. AXA said there have been 28 claims over the previous five years with a total amount it 
had incurred of £503,031. AXA said this equates to a 2,655% loss ratio on the policy. AXA 
said that due to the claims experience, the renewal premium offered for 2019 was fair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said we couldnt 
consider the subsidence claim as the complaint was out of time. She said AXA reviewed the 
policy in 2019 according to risk factors and calculated the increase that was then applied to 
the whole portfolio. She said AXA had treated H fairly.
Mr M disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said Hs claim for subsidence damage in 2011 wasnt properly dealt with by AXA and a 
new claim had to be made in 2015. He said this affected Hs premium. 
Ive thought about this aspect of Hs complaint. When H felt it had to make a second claim 
because of poor repairs in 2015 that was the starting point for the three-year time limit set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority within which consumers ought reasonably to have been 
aware that they have cause to complain. That means H needed to bring its complaint about 
the repairs to our service by 2018.
AXA hasnt given us permission to consider the complaint, and I havent seen any 
exceptional circumstances why the time limit imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority 
shouldnt apply in Hs circumstances. 
Concerning the increase in premiums, its generally up to insurers to assess how they price 
their policies. Insurers will do this when they consider the risk presented and will consider 
how much they need to charge to cover that risk. Our role is to see if theres been any 
unfairness in the assessment of the premium.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. AXA has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how your price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share that with you, but please rest 
assured Ive checked it carefully. Im satisfied the price you were quoted has been calculated 
correctly. 
Insurers take into account other factors such as operating costs and any profit they wish to 
make. Each insurer will look at things differently, which is why you might find a vast range of 
prices if you asked for a quote from several insurers. We dont tell insurers what they should 
charge to cover risks as this is a business assessment they are entitled to make. 
AXA has explained that Hs policy was part of a portfolio which AXA said had lost it money 
over the previous five years. AXA allocated a proportion of the premium to H based on risk 
factors including its claims experience which included 28 claims over the period. AXA said it 
had outlaid over half a million pounds on Hs claims over the previous five years and so I 
think that although the steep increase was unfortunate for H, it was understandable. 
AXAs records show that it reviewed Hs premium in 2019 leading to the steep increase. I 
havent seen anything to indicate it would have treated another policyholder with Hs risk 
profile any differently. And it follows that I dont think AXA has treated H unfairly about this. 
It appears from their records that AXA gave H and its broker plenty of time to decide on the 
premium and explore alternative arrangements should they wish, and I think that was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman