DRN-2418395
The complaint
Mr S complains that because Nationwide Building Society didnt follow his instructions to 
remove his ex-wife (Ms D) from their daughters savings account, funds were improperly 
removed without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr S and Ms D opened a savings account in 2001 for their daughter. Both Mr S and Ms D 
were account holders, but any money in the account belonged to their daughter  as 
beneficial owner. Both Mr S and Ms D were able to withdraw money on behalf of their 
daughter.
In June 2015, Mr S went to a Nationwide Branch with a court order from a family court giving 
him responsibility for his daughters savings account. Mr S completed a removal of account 
holder form and Nationwide sent this to Ms D asking her to sign it. Mr S says he wasnt told 
that Ms Ds signature was needed, and he wouldnt in any event have been able to get the 
signature from Ms D because of police involvement. However, the court order didnt provide 
Nationwide with the authority it needed to remove Ms D from the account. It says it followed 
it processes by requesting both signatures and by writing to the account address.
In December 2019, Mr S went to a branch to change the account into his daughters name 
because she was by then 18. Mr S was told that Ms D had withdrawn £2,183 in total from 
the account in August 2018, leaving a balance of £2.91. Nationwide told Mr S that because 
Ms D hadnt signed the form to remove her from the account, the account holders had 
remained unchanged. 
Mr S thinks Ms D used some of the £2,183 to help his daughter move out of his home. His 
child support payments for his other daughter increased because he no longer had one of 
his daughters in his care.
Our investigator felt that, without knowing for certain how Mr Ss daughter had benefitted 
from the withdrawn money, it would unfair to ask Nationwide to refund the money. But he felt 
Nationwide should have done more to let Mr S know that both signatures were needed, and 
that Ms D hadnt replied. So the investigator felt Nationwide should pay Mr S £100 in 
compensation.
But Mr S didnt agree, so I have reviewed his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide hasnt disputed that Mr S went to the Nationwide branch in 2015, with the court 
order, and asked for Ms D to be removed from the account. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he would have been alerted to the fact this didnt happen.
Im satisfied that Mr S was given responsibility for his daughters savings account as a result 
of the court order. It seems likely that the court order related to this Nationwide account 
because it referred to Mr Ss daughter having just one savings book. I accept that 
Nationwide needed both account holders signatures to make a change but, as our 
investigator has already said, Nationwide could have done more to let Mr S know his request 
hadnt been actioned. 
This is one of several matters considered by the family court. Im satisfied that Mr S would 
likely have looked to resolve the issue another way if hed known the court order and the 
form he completed werent enough to have Ms D removed from the account. Although Mr S 
says he wouldnt have been able to contact Ms D, there might have been options through 
the family court  along with a freeze on the funds until the matter was resolved.
Mr S says that the money Ms D withdrew may have led to her helping his daughter move out 
of his home and that this, in turn, increased child support payments for his other daughter. 
Ive no doubt it would have been distressing for Mr S to discover that most of the money in 
the savings account had been withdrawn without his knowledge and authority, and I accept it 
has left him wondering how the money was used. But because Mr Ss daughter may have 
received benefit from the withdrawn money  and, ultimately, the money belonged to her  it 
isnt appropriate for me to require Nationwide to refund it to him. If Mr S would like to pursue 
this further he may wish to consider referring the matter back to the family court.
I nevertheless consider that Nationwides actions will have had an adverse impact on Mr S 
for which he should receive fair compensation. The investigator recommended £100 but, 
taking account of the general levels of compensation we award, I assess £300 to be a fair 
sum.
Mr S would also like Nationwide to improve the processes it has in place, but this isnt 
something I can instruct it to do.
  
Putting things right
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr S £300.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To 
settle it, Nationwide Building Society should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Emma English
Ombudsman