DRN-3101797
The complaint
Miss C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought only part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have 
received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
Miss C was given two loans by ELL. She borrowed £1,600 in January 2013 and later 
borrowed £2,000 in September 2016. Both loans have been fully repaid.
When Miss C first complained to ELL it agreed that it shouldnt have given the first 
loan to her. So it offered to refund all the interest and charges shed paid on that 
loan. But ELL didnt agree that it had been wrong to give the second loan to Miss C. 
Since Miss C didnt agree with that outcome she brought her complaint to this 
Service.
ELL has accepted that it shouldnt have given the first loan to Miss C. So other than 
considering what ELL needs to do to put things right, I dont need to look at that loan 
any further.
ELL gathered some information from Miss C before it agreed the second loan. It 
asked her for details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some 
industry statistical data to estimate the remainder of Miss Cs normal expenditure. It 
checked her credit file to assess how much she was paying to other creditors, and 
how she had managed credit in the past. And it asked Miss C for copies of her bank 
statements and payslips to verify her income and what shed said about the 
remainder of her finances.
Miss C was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss 
Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that the checks ELL did 
before agreeing the second loan were proportionate.
 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
Miss C was borrowing from other lenders when she asked for the second loan from 
ELL. Considering her income, and her other regular expenditure, those repayments 
when taken together would have made it unlikely that Miss C could afford to repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. But when she applied for the loan Miss C explained 
that she would be using the loan to consolidate some of her other borrowing, 
including repaying her payday loans. I think it would be reasonable for ELL to rely on 
what Miss C told it about her plans. And so I dont think it needed to take account of 
the repayments on those loans when considering the affordability of Miss Cs 
application.
Without the other payday loan repayments I dont think the evidence from Miss Cs 
bank statements suggests that she would face problems repaying the loan from ELL 
in a sustainable manner. Her bank statements dont show evidence of serious 
financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions or escalating levels of 
overdraft or other debt. And the credit check that ELL performed suggested that, in 
the past couple of years, Miss C had generally managed her credit accounts well. So 
I dont currently think that the results of ELLs checks should have led the lender to 
decline Miss Cs loan application.
I appreciate how disappointing this part of my decision will be for Miss C. But, in 
summary, I think the checks ELL did before agreeing the second loan were 
proportionate, I dont think the results of those checks should have led to the loan 
request being declined. So I dont currently think this part of her complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL hasnt provided us with anything further. Miss C has said that she 
accepts my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
ELL has accepted that it shouldnt have given the first loan to Miss C. I think the checks ELL 
did before agreeing the second loan were proportionate and I dont think the results of those 
checks should have led to the loan request being declined. So I dont think ELL was wrong 
to give the second loan to Miss C.
Putting things right
I think that the compensation that ELL has offered in relation to loan 1 is in line with our 
normal approach. So if it hasnt already paid that compensation to Miss C, ELL should 
recalculate the interest on that offer and pay the total refund to her.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman