DRN-3719523
The complaint
Mr R is complaining about the advice and information given to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
when he was making an investment.
What happened
Mr R met with an HSBC advisor in July 2021 to discuss his investment and inheritance tax 
(IHT) planning needs. As a result of this meeting he invested in a fund (the Fund) within an 
Onshore Investment Bond (OIB) using a Discretionary Gift Trust (DGT).
By April 2022 the investment had fallen in value and Mr R complained to HSBC about the 
suitability of the investment and the information given to him at the time.
In their response to the complaint HSBC said that the documentation from July 2021 shows 
Mr R was prepared to take a very high degree of risk with his capital to secure higher returns 
over the long term and to help mitigate IHT. They said the adviser had recommended 
investing in an OIB using a DGT and set out the reasons in a report.
HSBC said Mr R had been given the most up to date factsheet available for the Fund at the 
time  this was dated 31 May 2021. And they said the adviser had discussed with Mr R the 
fact that the return over the last six month period was significantly lower than the sector 
median but that Mr R was happy that the Fund had consistently outperformed the sector 
over the longer term. 
In their response, HSBC added that the issues with fuel prices and the war in Ukraine had 
contributed to further uncertainty in financial markets and this had impacted the performance 
of Mr Rs investment. They added that they recommend investments are held for at least five 
years to allow an opportunity for growth. HSBC also apologised that Mr R was unhappy with 
the frequency of updates hed received. They explained that the documentation hed 
received at the start of the investment told Mr R that hed receive a statement every six 
months but that theyd arranged for Mr R to be sent a monthly update and that he was aware 
of external websites where he could seek other updates.
Mr R remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to us. In particular, he said the advice 
cost around £7,500 but the past performance data he was given was around four months old 
by the end of the cooling off period. And he said the performance of the Fund began to fall 
before he invested and continued to fall during the cooling off period. He said that by the 
time of his complaint the Fund had lost around 20% of its value and he wanted to be 
compensated for both this and the advice fee. He says if hed known this additional 
information about the performance of the Fund, he wouldnt have invested in it.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. His view was that the 
advice to invest in the OIB and place it into a DGT was suitable for Mr Rs circumstances. He 
said he didnt think the fact sheet played a decisive part in Mr Rs decision to invest in the 
Fund. He noted that the fact sheet explicitly said it shouldnt be relied on to make a decision 
and other information in relation to the Fund didnt provide any performance information at 
all. So he thought it was more important to consider the overall advice HSBC had given 
Mr R. 
Mr R was unhappy with our investigators view. He said he accepted the level of risk but 
expected the advice to be accurate and up to date, with a clear indication of present 
performance  which with hindsight it clearly wasnt. He said he later established that 
performance data is freely available on a regular basis and its easy to track performance 
trends. He felt HSBCs failure to provide him with the most recent performance data at the 
time was negligent.
Mr R commented that if hed had the data, hed possibly still have invested in a DGT, but in a 
different fund. He noted that independent reports published at the time questioned and 
criticised the strategy adopted by the fund manager. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, and the complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Mr R, Im not upholding his 
complaint  Ill explain why below. 
Suitability
Ive considered what HSBC needed to do when advising Mr R. They needed to thoroughly 
understand Mr Rs objectives and assess his appetite for risk and capacity for loss. Then 
they needed to identify a product or combination of products that matched Mr Rs profile. 
Having been through HSBCs Fact Find, Risk Tolerance Questionnaire and Financial 
Planning Report, Im satisfied they did this. I wont explain in detail because our investigator 
went through this and Mr R didnt disagree. In summary, the use of a DGT was suitable for 
Mr Rs inheritance tax objectives, the use of the OIB allowed Mr R to draw a regular income,  
and the Fund selected within the OIB matched Mr Rs high appetite for risk and capacity for 
loss. 
Information needs
The crux of Mr Rs complaint though is about the information HSBC provided him with  and 
primarily that it was out of date.
Ive thought carefully about this. The Financial Conduct Authoritys Principle 7 states: A firm 
must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
HSBC provided Mr R with the latest available factsheet for the relevant fund, and with a key 
information document. These are the documents theyd normally expect to provide, and 
although its clear in retrospect that Mr R has a preference for more information, I cant see 
any reason that HSBC would have known this at the time. The factsheet given to Mr R 
clearly shows that the Funds performance had suffered a significant drop in the six months 
to 31 May 2021. HSBC say their adviser discussed this drop in performance with Mr R and 
he was happy to proceed despite this, instead focussing on the longer-term performance of 
the Fund.  The Financial Planning Report also notes that different fund options were 
discussed with Mr R and as well as long term performance the lower annual management 
charges associated with the Fund led him to choose this Fund. 
So Im satisfied Mr R was aware at the time of the advice that the Fund had been through a 
period of underperformance and chose to invest anyway. Looking at historical market data, I 
dont think more up-to-date information would have changed his mind. Thats because between 31 May 2021 and mid-September 2021, the Fund outperformed the market and it 
wasnt until mid-November 2021 that its value started a significant decline.  
In conclusion, Im satisfied HSBC did provide enough information to Mr R  there was no 
indication at the time that his information needs were greater than their average customer. 
And even if they had provided more up-to-date information on the performance of the bond, I 
dont think this would have changed Mr Rs mind or led him to make a different decision. It 
follows that Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman