DRN-2380338
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined to port their mortgage. 
They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had an interest only mortgage which was transferred to Barclays in 2009. In 
2019 they asked to port the mortgage to a new property. They also wanted to take out 
additional borrowing. Barclays declined, saying they didnt meet its lending criteria. Mr and 
Mrs T took out a mortgage with another lender and paid an ERC to Barclays.
Mr and Mrs T say they took out interest rate products which they believed were portable. 
They say Barclays didnt check they met lending criteria before offering these interest rate 
products, or warn them they wouldnt be able to port the mortgage due to its new lending 
criteria. They say they wouldnt have taken out a product with an ERC if theyd known.
Our investigator said Barclays had applied its lending policy fairly. Mr and Mrs T were taking 
out additional borrowing and the rules required Barclays to assess whether this was 
affordable. It was entitled to apply its lending criteria. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree that Barclays 
had acted fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T took out a new interest rate product in July 2017. The offer set out the product 
terms, including that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid before October 
2022. Mr and Mrs T repaid the mortgage in March 2020 and Barclays applied the ERC.
When Mr and Mrs T accepted the interest rate product they agreed to the terms  including 
the ERC. While there could be circumstances in which Id find it fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to waive or refund the ERC, thats not the case here. Ive explained why 
below.
Was Barclays fair when it declined to port Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage?
The product offer said Mr and Mrs T could port their interest rate product to a new property 
provided they met Barclays lending criteria in force at the time. In 2019 Mr and Mrs T asked 
Barclays about porting their mortgage to a new property. They also wanted to take out 
additional borrowing.
There were significant changes to the rules on mortgage lending in 2014, following the 
mortgage market review. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in 
its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only 
mortgages, repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
While there are exceptions to this, these didnt apply here because Mr and Mrs T wanted 
additional borrowing as well as to port their mortgage. 
I should also say that while these exceptions (if they applied) would have allowed Barclays 
to port the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it wasnt required to do so. It could 
still fairly decline to port the mortgage for another reason. 
Mr and Mrs T spoke to Barclays mortgage adviser and were told they didnt meet Barclays 
lending criteria. Barclays notes say they didnt meet its income criteria and wouldnt have 
had enough equity in the property to meet its criteria. Mr and Mrs T didnt make a porting 
application. 
Barclays says its mortgage adviser suggested to Mr T that he apply for a capital repayment 
mortgage, but he didnt want to do this. This is consistent with our investigators notes of 
what Mr T said to her about what happened  that Barclays asked him to change the whole 
mortgage to a repayment basis. 
Mr T says Barclays wouldnt agree to port their interest only mortgage with additional 
borrowing on a capital repayment basis. Ive looked at Barclays lending policy and this still 
wouldnt have met Barclays lending criteria. I think its likely Mr T asked about this, as he 
said he did, and Barclays told him this wouldnt meet its lending criteria.
I think Barclays was fair when it discussed Mr and Mrs Ts request to port their mortgage and 
take out additional borrowing with them. I think it gave them correct information, that what 
they wanted to do didnt meet its lending criteria. 
Was Barclays unfair when it offered Mr and Mrs T a new interest rate product?
Mr and Mrs T feel they were misled  that the interest rate product they took out was never 
truly portable. I appreciate they were disappointed, but I think Barclays gave them correct 
information about this.
The product offer said the interest rate product could be ported provided that you meet the 
lending criteria in force at the time that you ask to transfer the mortgage rate to your new 
property. Please note that Barclays reserves the right to amend its lending criteria from time 
to time without notice to you.
So I think Barclays did make Mr and Mrs T aware that it would apply its lending criteria if 
they asked to port the mortgage and that its criteria can change. 
Barclays wouldnt have been able to tell Mr and Mrs T whether a future porting application 
would meet its criteria  especially in circumstances like this when the request was 
combined with additional borrowing. It just needed to make them aware of the ERC and that 
it would apply its lending criteria to a porting application, and it did this. 
What happens now?
I think Barclays applied rules on mortgage regulation, as its required to do, and its own 
lending criteria fairly here. It told Mr and Mrs T their application didnt meet its lending 
criteria. And it offered a solution  that they take out a repayment mortgage. This wasnt 
what Mr and Mrs T wanted and they applied for a mortgage elsewhere, as they were entitled 
to do. But as I think Barclays was fair, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Barclays to refund the ERC.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman