DRN-2416536
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (then trading as The Woolwich) mis-
sold them life and critical illness cover in 2008. 
To resolve their complaint, they want the premiums they have paid for the policy to be repaid 
in full, plus interest.  
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs W cancelled their policies. Mr W said when he retired he began to 
review their outgoings and was shocked that they were paying for cover they didnt want or 
need. He also found that his first name had been spelt incorrectly on several of the policy 
documents.
Mr and Mrs W first lodged a written complaint with Barclays in August 2019. They said that 
they were told they each had to take out a decreasing term life and critical illness policy in 
order to remortgage with Barclays. Mr W explained how, in addition to saying they did not 
want this insurance, they did not need the cover as he held two final salary pensions as well 
as three other smaller pensions and Mrs W had a local government pension. Further, they 
both had contractual sick pay benefits where if they were off sick, theyd each receive six 
months of full pay followed by six months of half pay. Finally, Mr and Mrs W said they 
wanted an explanation for why Mr Ws first name was wrongly spelt on his policy 
documentation.  
Barclays issued a response to the complaint in January 2020. It recognised that it had taken 
too long to reply to the complaint and paid Mr and Mrs W £150 to compensate them for the 
delay. 
In respect of the sale of the policies, though it did not think the recommendation for life and 
critical illness protection was unreasonable, it felt that the adviser ought to have proposed 
level critical illness benefit for Mr W because he was slightly older than Mrs W and for the 
last two years of the policy, he would not have been covered. This was because critical 
illness cover offered through the insurer at that time did not extend beyond the age of 65. 
However, when it worked out the cost of ensuring Mr and Mrs W were covered sufficiently to 
the end of the mortgage term, Barclays noted this would have had a monthly premium 
£39.74 per month more expensive than the policies they took out. It therefore did not believe 
any compensation should be due to them.  
Barclays also said that the mortgage application was made on 13 February and it completed 
on 29 May 2008. The policy applications were submitted on 18 March and didn't go live until 
31 May 2008. It felt this showed that Mr and Mrs W had several weeks to think about their 
options and change their mind, if required.  
Finally, Barclays apologised for the typographical error in Mr Ws name and explained how 
this had been repeated in various places because its computer systems pulled through data 
based on human input, and an error had been made at the time of the application.  
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the response from Barclays and so they referred their 
complaint to this service. Mr W said he had retired some six years ago, so he failed to 
understand how death benefits under his pensions werent considered appropriate protection 
for the mortgage lending should he pass away. 
They also said that Barclays had considered that they had not suffered any financial loss, 
but this wasnt true  they had lost their monthly premiums paying for inappropriate cover. 
This additional £100 per month could have been paid to the mortgage instead, as theyd 
wanted it to end in 2020, not 2021 as they now realise the mortgage lending ends a year 
later than theyd been led to believe. 
Mr W also said that the letter Barclays issued to them regarding their complaint had no 
postage paid on it, so they had to pay £2 for the letter in order to review it. 
An investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should succeed. She felt the 
proposal made by the adviser was reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs W taking 
out additional mortgage lending. She didnt think that the recommendation was rendered 
unsuitable because Mr and Mrs W both had pension and death-in-service benefits as these 
were different provisions. She also could not see any clear evidence that the policy had been 
sold to Mr and Mrs W as a condition of the mortgage lending. Finally, she noted Barclays 
had said the misspelling of Mr Ws name on some of the policy documentation was down to 
human error. She noted Barclays had apologised, which she felt was sufficient for that error. 
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt accept the investigators view. They said they realised that it 
was their word against Barclays, but they did not need the cover and did not want it and that 
the cost was too significant for a mortgage that was only £385 per month. They also feel the 
recorded comments by the adviser at the time of the sale were inaccurate.   
Mr and Mrs W said they wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. 
Barclays supplied some further information. It said it had obtained the mortgage 
documentation showing that the policies were not a condition of the lending. Further, in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Ws comments, it said:
it has seen no evidence of any other personal protection policies held by Mr and Mrs 
W at the time of the advice and the fact find documentation reflected that;
a monthly budget was set out with the adviser for the new mortgage and any 
associated insurance, and this was met (and/or would have been marginally higher if 
the policy terms were for 14 years);
the fact Mr W has gone on to develop some health problems doesnt show that he 
was right to cancel the cover, it supports that the recommendation was correct in the 
first place. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I recognise Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about the sale of their protection 
policies, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below.  
I should note that one point of the complaint Mr and Mrs W have now raised when referring the matter here has not been addressed to Barclays. That is concerning the term of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say that they actually wanted the mortgage to end after 12 years 
and six months, not 13 years and six months as it is set up for. It is worth noting that at the 
time of the sale, Barclays says Mr and Mrs W had 13 years and six months on their existing 
mortgage and therefore the term was carried across. Nonetheless, if Mr and Mrs W have an 
outstanding complaint about that point, theyll need to address that directly with Barclays in 
the first instance.  
I also note Mr and Mrs W were unhappy they had to pay to receive the final response to the 
complaint  and clearly Barclays made an error by failing to pay the appropriate postage. 
However, I believe that the compensation paid to them for the upset of the delay of the 
complaint response sufficiently accounts for the further £2 they had to pay to obtain the 
letter.  
At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs W had an existing Openplan tracker mortgage for 
£32,188 to which they wished to add a further £30,000 for home improvements. They also 
wanted to switch mortgage types to a capital repayment mortgage. The mortgage sought 
was therefore for £62,188 across the same outstanding mortgage term. 
To be clear, Barclays has not accepted liability for mis-selling the policies. What it said was 
that its adviser had made a mistake in the type of recommendation made. This was because 
the insurance terms did not strictly match the mortgage term, as it carried on slightly beyond 
Mr Ws 65th birthday. Barclays does not agree that the recommendation for the cover was 
wrong in principle. On that basis, I do not agree with Mr and Mrs W that this should mean 
Barclays accepts that the policies sold shouldnt have gone ahead at all.  
I realise Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that they were told the policies had to be taken out so 
that they could secure the mortgage lending. I am mindful of what they can recall. But there 
is no record of what was actually said. And the written records differ from what is being said 
now. The mortgage offer letter dated 8 April 2008 expressly confirms under a section of the 
offer entitled Insurance you must take out through The Woolwich that you are not required 
to take out any insurance through The Woolwich. The only insurance required as a 
condition of the mortgage was buildings cover.
Like our investigator, I do not believe that the evidence shows Mr and Mrs W were likely told 
they had to take out the policies. I say that because the mortgage offer did not require it, and 
Mr and Mrs W did not accept the proposal made to them right away. In fact, the initial 
recommendation made to Mrs W was for a 14-year term (as she could take out critical illness 
cover for the entire mortgage term, rounded to the full year) but the records from the time 
show this was declined to give Mr and Mrs W time to review the quotes and documentation 
more carefully. Mr and Mrs W decided to go ahead on 18 March 2008, more than a month 
after the initial mortgage application. The policies didnt start until the end of May 2008. 
The insurer would also have sent a cancellation notice to both Mr and Mrs W, if they had not 
wished to proceed to with the cover or cancel it in the future (as they have gone on to do). 
On balance, I believe it was more likely that a recommendation was made by the Barclays 
adviser in 2004, and Mr and Mrs W were free to reject it.
Though I understand Mr W says they didnt know they could cancel the policies until it was 
drawn to his attention in 2016, that doesnt alter that the policies were (in my view) a 
reasonable proposal in the first instance. Mr and Mrs W were free to cancel them if they did 
not consider them worthwhile, but my role in being fair to both parties is to decide whether 
the advisers proposal met their recorded needs in 2008.  
I believe that the recommendation (notwithstanding the slightly shorter term of the policies) for cover of this nature was reasonable. Having that type of insurance when taking on a 
mortgage debt is a prudent step to take. A payment in the circumstances that either Mr or 
Mrs W were to fall seriously ill or pass away would have ensured enough funds for 
themselves or their family were available to clear the outstanding mortgage debt (if the policy 
had been a decreasing term one) at a difficult time. And Mr and Mrs W didnt have existing 
life or critical illness insurance policies at the time Barclays provided the advice. The records 
show their insurance cover comprised accident policies and home insurance.  
The provisions Mr and Mrs W had in the form of pensions and sick pay (during their 
employment) did not replicate the cover provided by the insurance policy  these have 
different designated purposes (for example, a pension is designed to provide income upon 
retirement to help maintain a lifestyle) and the most suitable protection for the lump sum 
mortgage liability was decreasing term assurance. Ive also seen no evidence that either Mr 
or Mrs W had any other access to critical illness cover. A lump sum payment in the 
circumstances of serious ill health is designed to ease the burden and cost of any such 
event, aside from sick pay provisions which though contractual, are only in place whilst the 
relevant employment continues.   
The recognition of their existing provisions (and lack of other insurance cover) and the 
requirement for separate policies rather than joint cover in these circumstances was 
recorded in the advisers notes from the time of the sale, which said:
We do have concerns more with critical illness we both feel we are covered with 
death in service and if one of us died we would downsize the property anyway 
however we would look at a policy that cover[ed] us either on life or critical illness 
what ever happened first. We would like to be quoted in the event of critical illness or 
death to protect the family if unable to work as this we feel would be more a struggle 
to us.
We would like separate [policies] so if one policy paid out we still had the security 
that the other person was still covered for either life or critical illness.
Though Mr and Mrs W had one joint liability, holding two policies with critical illness benefit is 
not an unreasonable proposal where there is some justification for the requirement. And I 
note at the time of the advice, they had a dependent child at home and a further adult child. I 
realise Mr and Mrs W dispute the accuracy of the comments made, but for the reasons I 
have set out above, if they did not want the policies they could have rejected them and/or 
sought their lending elsewhere. 
I note Mr and Mrs W have since cancelled the cover, but they had the benefit of the 
insurance during the policy term; they could reasonably have pursued a claim under either 
policy if required. Mr and Mrs W say they forgot they had the cover so they wouldnt have 
been able to make claims. However, I dont consider Barclays is at fault for that  and the 
premiums were maintained by Mr and Mrs W. Further, it is possible to make claims after 
listed events on protection policies. As such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to 
be returned to them.  
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 Jo Storey
Ombudsman