DRN-1724915
The complaint
Mr R complained about the service he received from ONE Insurance Limited (ONE Call), 
under his car insurance policy when his car broke down.
What happened
Mr R was making a journey in August 2019 when the engine management light came on and 
his car had no power. He contacted ONE Call to claim under the breakdown section of his 
car insurance policy for help at the roadside. 
Mr R was about 300 miles from home and ONE Calls operator told him that the best thing to 
do was to recover Mr R and his car to his home, but under the terms of the policy this would 
be at a cost of £884. The operator told Mr R that he should get in touch with a breakdown 
service who might be able to help him at less cost. Mr R said that no other help was offered 
to him by ONE Call.
Mr R then took out a policy with a breakdown service for £170 and a mechanic reset the light 
so he was able to carry on his journey.
Mr R complained to ONE Call because he does not think they should provide breakdown 
cover then not be able to assist in a breakdown.
Our investigator thought it wasnt fair for ONE Call to decide it wouldnt be possible to fix Mr 
Rs car and not send anyone to help him. He upheld the complaint and asked ONE Call to 
reimburse the cost of Mr Rs alternative breakdown cover. He also said ONE Call should 
reimburse Mr R for the premiums he paid from his latest renewal, plus interest.  
ONE Call disagree with the view. They refer to an Important Note in the policy wording 
which says We will always decide on the best possible way of offering assistance, after 
taking in to account individual circumstances. 
ONE Call said this means it can choose how they help their customers and in the case of Mr 
R, the operator assessed that it would not be cost effective for them to instruct an agent to 
the vehicle, to then have to potentially instruct another agent to go and recover the vehicle. 
ONE Call have said that their service is for recovery so their recovery agents would not 
necessarily be able to fix or repair at the roadside.
ONE Call requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ONE Call have said that Mr R has had the same breakdown cover from 2014 so has always 
been able to read the policy documents and ask for help. They have explained that they 
have the option to decide on the best possible way of offering assistance. 
Their claim operator assessed the likely cost of their service to Mr R as being very high and 
was able to direct Mr R to another company who could help him cheaper. 
I understand Mr Rs frustration at having a breakdown policy that didnt assist him when he 
needed help the most. When I read the policy wording I can see that the cover does talk 
about repairing the vehicle in several places. 
If our recovery agent cannot fix your vehicle at the roadside within an agreed, reasonable 
period then you will be offered one of the following options (whichever we deem suitable)
What this says to me is that a fix or repair is a normal part of the breakdown service and I 
think its reasonable for Mr R to have expected this. 
The policy states the cover will provide roadside assistance and/or recovery. And further that 
the customer will be entitled to up to an hours roadside assistance. Mr R was denied this 
policy benefit by the decision taken by the operator. This meant the options also available to 
him under the policy were removed such as alternative road or rail travel for the driver, or a 
suitable hire vehicle. Mr R has said that no help was offered to him and I have seen no 
evidence from ONE Call that they made any offer.
It does not seem fair to me that Mr R had a policy that appeared to cover him for the type of 
breakdowns he might reasonably expect, but that failed to protect him when he needed it. 
ONE Call also did not give Mr R all of the help they could have given him under the terms of 
their policy and to tell Mr R to phone another company for help is poor service.
Consequently, I agree with the investigator that ONE Call should reimburse Mr R for the 
£170 he paid to join a breakdown service. However, I do not agree that ONE Call should 
refund Mr Rs premiums. These were paid for his car insurance which is required by law and 
offered him full road cover. The breakdown cover is described in the policy as a free add-on. 
Mr R has described his frustration and the inconvenience he suffered. I think ONE Call 
should pay Mr R £100 compensation for the impact its poor service had upon him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I require ONE Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr R £170 compensation. I also require ONE Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman