DRN-4212863
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she says she lost to a scam.
What happened
Mrs P invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill call W). She made a payment of 
£5,000, by way of a faster payment, from her Santander bank account to W in November 
2017. She complained to Santander through a representative in 2023. They argued that 
Santander had breached its duty of care by failing to question the payment and, had it done 
so, Mrs P wouldnt have gone ahead and the loss would have been prevented. Santander 
said the investment company was subject to a law enforcement investigation, so it wouldnt 
be able to fully respond to her claim.
Mrs P referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They thought that the payment didnt stand out as being particularly unusual or 
concerning, so Santander would have had no cause to question it. Mrs Ps representatives 
disagreed, they argued that other high value payments that Mrs P had made were mostly to 
her own accounts or known payees. They said that the £5,000 payment was large and to a 
new payee and that should have been sufficient for Santander to question it. Mrs Ps 
representatives maintained that had Santander intervened it would have been able to 
identify several concerning aspects of the investment.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mrs P is responsible for transactions shes carried out 
herself. Theres no dispute about that here.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Santander should, fairly and 
reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as well 
as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
It would clearly be an onerous requirement for Santander to question every payment and I 
consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other factors, 
to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment does, or does not, present 
heightened risk.
Having reviewed Mrs Ps account statements, I can see that she made a number of 
payments which were of significantly higher value in the year before the payments were 
made (though I accept that some of these payments went to her own account or that of her 
husband and others may have gone to existing payees). The payment in dispute did not 
reduce the balance of her account significantly and didnt form part of a concerning pattern 
of payments  both of which might be indicators of fraud. 
Overall, I dont find that Santander ought to have been concerned about the payment and 
therefore it didnt make a mistake by failing to intervene. But, even if I were to accept that it 
ought to have spoken to Mrs P about the payment, its difficult to see how any intervention 
would have prevented her loss. After all, it doesnt appear that any significant concerns were 
raised about W until years after this payment was made and it entered liquidation. Based on 
what appears to have been known at the time, I cant reasonably conclude that the bank 
would have recognised the risk that Mrs P would lose her money and I dont think there was 
sufficient information in the public domain for Santander to be particularly concerned about 
W. 
Mrs Ps representatives suggest that W or intermediaries acting on its behalf did not act in 
accordance with relevant regulations (for example by breaching rules around the marketing 
of unregulated investments) and this might have been established by the bank. I think, in 
these circumstances, thats an unrealistic expectation of the kind of warning the bank ought 
to have given in a short telephone call and, set against the weight of evidence at the time 
that W was operating legitimately would, in any case, be unlikely to have deterred Mrs P 
from going ahead.
Finally, any chance of recovering Mrs Ps funds so long after the event would have been 
very small. Despite that, Santander did try to recover the funds from the bank which received 
them, but no money remained. So, I think its efforts to recover her money were reasonable.  
Im sorry that Mrs P has lost out, but Ive decided that Santander arent responsible for her 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman