DRN-3237967
Complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying charges 
to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC ought to have 
realised that Mr R was already struggling by June 2016 and so it shouldnt have added the 
charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC didnt agree in full and as Mr R didnt accept its 
alternative offer of settlement the case was passed to an ombudsman to review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr Rs overdraft from        
June 2016 as by this point, it was evident he was already struggling to manage the facility. 
A cursory look at Mr Rs statements leading up to this period shows that hed regularly 
exceeded his limit. And hed barely seen a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Indeed, given his salary and the amount hed been consistently overdrawn by, I cant see 
how HSBC could reasonably have believed there was a reasonable prospect of Mr R 
breaking the cycle he found himself in without some kind of support to do so. 
So at this point, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr R was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr R with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr R wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. Mr R ended up paying additional interest, fees 
and charges on his overdraft at a time when he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think 
that Mr R lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from June 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan,    
Mr R is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Rs credit file, it should reflect what wouldve been recorded if it 
had started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2016. 
HSBC can also reduce Mr Rs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his 
limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Rs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman