DRN-3556873
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont reimburse 
£456.66 which he feels was taken from his account without authorisation.
What happened
Mr D purchased flights from an airline company with whom he held a credit balance of 
£456.66. The total balance for the flights was £532.92, which meant that after the credit was 
applied, the remaining balance would be £67.26  which Mr D wanted to pay with his 
Barclays credit card account.
Mr D made the purchase on the airlines website and applied the credit balance to the 
purchase. However, when Mr D made the payment with his Barclays credit account for the 
remaining balance of £67.26, the full cost of the tickets, £532.92, was taken from the credit 
account instead.
Mr D wasnt happy about this and asked Barclays to reimburse the additional £456.66 that 
shouldnt have been taken back to him. But Barclays confirmed that the airline had 
requested the £532.92 amount, and that theyd honoured the request made by the airline. As 
such, Barclays didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Barclays response, and felt that Barclays should recover his money 
for him via either a Section 75 claim or a chargeback claim. So, he referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mr D in how theyd managed this situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can appreciate how Mr D would be upset that the credit balance he held 
with the airline wasnt applied to the purchase of the tickets, meaning that his Barclays credit 
account was charged the full balance for those tickets.
However, given that this is a complaint specifically against Barclays, the question is whether 
Barclays themselves should reasonably be considered as having done anything unfair or 
unreasonable here. And in consideration of the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyve managed this situation.
There are several reasons for this, including that it wasnt Barclays that failed to apply the 
credit balance that Mr D held to the payment. Indeed, Barclays role here was to honour the 
request for payment made by the airline, which Barclays did. As such, Im satisfied that 
Barclays cant be reasonably considered as being accountable for the amount that was 
taken from Mr Ds credit account, because the request for that amount came from the airline.
Additionally, Mr D received goods for the £523.92 payment that he made. I say this because 
£532.92 was the price of the tickets that Mr D purchased. And so, it isnt the case that Mr D 
has made a payment for which he hasnt received any goods or services.
Furthermore, while I can appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that the credit balance of £456.66 
wasnt applied to the purchase by the airline, that credit balance remains available for Mr D 
to use. And while Mr D has stated that he has no intention of dealing with the airline in 
question again and therefore wont be using that credit balance, this doesnt alter the fact 
that that credit balance remains available to him. 
Because of this, I wouldnt consider instructing Barclays to reimburse the £456.66 back to Mr 
D as he would like here. This is because this would mean that Mr D would potentially be able 
to use the £456.66 amount twice  once in the form of the reimbursement and again in the 
form of the original credit balance held with the airline. As such, if were to instruct Barclays 
to reimburse the £456.66 to Mr D, I would in essence be instructing Barclays to give Mr D an 
additional £456.66, which Im satisfied would be neither reasonable nor fair.
For these reasons, I also dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly by declining to raise 
either a Section 75 claim or a chargeback claim on Mr Ds behalf. And this is because, given 
the circumstances described above, Im satisfied that neither claim would have any 
reasonable chance of being successful. And where such claims are reasonably considered 
to have little chance of success, a bank is under no obligation to raise them.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here as Mr D contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I realise that wont be the 
outcome that Mr D was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman