DRN-1676584
 
The complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mrs Fs credit card account when she applied for the card in person at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form which Mrs F signed. It included a 
box to select if she wished to take PPI. Theres an x in this box. Its true that the x 
appears to be printed. But I think its more likely than not that the box was marked 
after a discussion between Mrs F and Halifax's adviser. And I see she didn't select 
card protection, which was also available. Whats more, the reference to PPI and the 
marked box are reasonably clear and prominent on the form, and I dont think its 
likely that Mrs F would have failed to notice this before she signed it. And if she 
wasn't sure what it was, I think she would have asked about it at the time.
 
Taking everything into account, I think it would have been clear to Mrs F that the PPI 
was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  
although I can understand why she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
 
Although Mrs F told us that she thought shed applied for the card online, Im satisfied 
that the application form shows that she applied for it at a branch of the bank. Halifax 
says it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs F. That means that it had a responsibility to make sure that it was suitable for her. But it doesn't look as if it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
 
From what Ive seen, Mrs F was eligible for the PPI. When she brought her 
compliant, she told us shed have been entitled to three months' full sick pay from her 
employer at the time, and after that, further pay would have been at her employers 
discretion. In response to the adjudicators view, Mrs Fs said shed have been 
entitled to full sick pay for up to six months. 
 
But if Mrs F had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident or sickness, it 
would have helped with her monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months. Thats 
significantly longer than shes told us she could have been sure of getting full sick 
pay for. And the policy would have helped with Mrs Fs monthly credit card payments 
for up to 10 months if shed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs F received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And 
she wouldn't have had to use her savings to meet her monthly credit card 
repayments.
 
In response to the adjudicators view, Mrs F mentioned that she and her partner 
bought some shares jointly. She says they could have cashed them in at any time, 
but they still have them. It's not fully clear to me whether Mrs F already had the 
shares when she took out the PPI. But even if she did, I think its unlikely that shed 
have wanted to cash them in to make her credit card repayments. So I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable for her.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs F has told us she had death in service cover. But thats a 
different sort of insurance, and wouldn't have paid out in the same circumstances as 
PPI. I also acknowledge that shes told us she was living with her parents when she 
opened the credit card account. She says she had the support of her parents and 
had no outgoings. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mrs Fs 
parents would have continued to be in a position to support her if shed been off sick 
for an extended period, or if shed lost her job. So taking everything into account, I 
think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs F.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied that Mrs F chose to take out the policy. So she 
appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if she's understandably forgotten 
that now. She wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions). And the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mrs F would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have 
taken out the policy.
 
 My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman