DRN-2380795
The complaint
Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly rejected a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had home insurance with a UK bank, provided by UKI. In March 2020, he noticed water 
coming from a leak in his bathroom. Mr A initially believed that the origin of the leak was 
gaps in the sealant between the bath and a wall. Later, he told UKI that the leak came from a 
faulty waste pipe.
Mr A fixed the leak and made a claim for water damage to the bathroom floor, bedroom 
carpet, and living room ceiling and carpet.
UKI rejected Mr As claim. It didnt accept that the water damage was caused by a leak from 
the waste pipe. Instead, it relied on Mr As initial description of the leak as coming though 
gaps in the sealant around the bath. As such, UKI said the water damage was not covered 
by Mr As policy. It did, however, pay a separate claim for accidental damage to the bath 
caused when Mr A dropped a chisel onto the bath while fixing the sealant.
Mr A was unhappy with UKIs response and complained to this service. He wants UKI to 
settle his claim in full and cover the cost of repairs to the bathroom floor, bedroom carpet, 
and living room ceiling, lights and carpet.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She found UKIs 
decision to reject the claim was reasonable. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigator. He restated his belief that the leak was from the waste 
pipe and said UKI initially told him it would settle his claim. He believes UKI set out to reject 
the claim and took advantage of the coronavirus pandemic to avoid paying it. 
The case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether Mr As home insurance policy covers the water damage in his 
home. Ive reviewed his policy. Information about leaks and burst pipes is at Section 1A of 
the policy booklet (Buildings Core Cover). This sets out what is and isnt covered. 
The policy covers Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems. However, it 
doesnt cover damage caused by the failure, wear and tear or lack of grouting or sealant.
So the key question is, what was the source of the leak?
The leak was fixed by the time UKIs agent visited Mr A to take photographs and video of the 
damage. The agent doesnt appear to have examined either the sealant or the waste pipe 
and theres no report about the leak. However, given it was already fixed by the time he 
visited, Im not sure how much help a report might have been.
Ive listened to the two phone calls in March 2020 when Mr A first contacted UKI. Ill 
summarise both.
Phone call, 9 March
This was a 47 minute call, but the key discussion was when Mr A described the leak in his 
bathroom. He said, What happened I think was that probably the bath over time has slipped 
down and the water was seeping through the joints from the bath joints in the wall. He also 
explained that the damage to the bath was when he dropped a chisel while he was putting 
new sealant around the bath.
UKIs advisor then explicitly asked Mr A if hed found the leak and if hed tried to fix it. 
Mr A: Yes, I did find the leak. I tried to first seal it and during this incident all panic 
going on
Advisor: So when youre talking about sealing it, do you mean a pipe?
Mr A: No, you know the joint next to the bath with the wall under the tiles. 
Advisor: Next to the so like the sealant around the bath?
Mr A: Yes, the sealant around the bath. What we did notice was the sealant, there 
was loads of some kind of, you know, spaces that the water we found was leaking.
UKIs advisor took some more details before reviewing Mr As policy. Having done so, she 
explained that Mr As policy didnt cover him for this type of leak.
Phone call, 11 March
Mr A called UKI again two days later. He told the advisor that hed removed the bath panel 
and saw that the leak was coming from the waste pipe. He said he replaced the waste pipe 
seal, and this stopped the leak.
Having listened to both calls, I can understand why UKI concluded Mr As first account was 
more likely. Initially, he said the leak was through the sealant where the bath joined the wall. 
It was only after UKIs advisor told him his policy wouldnt cover this that Mr A said the leak 
was from the waste pipe.
I can imagine that the immediate action to try to stop the leak would have been quite 
panicked. However, Mr As first call to UKI was three days later and he sounds calm. Theres 
no reason for me to think he was giving an inaccurate account when he said the leak was at 
the sealant.
He also explained that the damage to the bath was caused when he dropped a chisel while 
fixing the sealant. I see no reason for him to have been carrying out this work unless the 
sealant needed to be fixed. This would support his initial belief that the sealant was the 
source of the leak.
Also, given his conversation with UKI on 9 March, I might have expected Mr A to take some 
photos or recording of the leak from the waste pipe before he fixed it to prove this was 
problem and that UKI should honour the claim.
Finally, Mr A told us a UKI advisor told him his claim would be settled. He also points to a 
letter dated 14 May 2020 from his bank that says: As per Claim number [xx] will be honour as per insurance company [sic]. We are sorry for the issue caused. 
Ive reviewed UKIs internal notes. UKI told Mr A his claim wouldnt succeed in the first call 
on 9 March. It restated this in a phone call on 27 April, after its agents visit, and confirmed 
this in its letter of 1 May. I appreciate the letter on 14 May suggests that the claim might be 
accepted, but Im satisfied by UKIs explanation for this  human error at the bank. Im also 
satisfied that UKI promptly investigated this letter and told Mr A it was a mistake. I found no 
other evidence that UKI said it would settle the leak claim.
Looking at the photos of the water damage, I sympathise with Mr A. I can also understand 
why hed be frustrated that his insurance policy doesnt cover him for the damage. 
However, for the reasons set out above Im satisfied that UKIs assessment of his claim was 
fair. I find its conclusion  that the water damage was caused by a leak in the sealant 
between the bath and a wall  is reasonable. Im satisfied that this damage isnt covered by 
Mr As policy and that UKIs reliance on this exclusion is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman