DRN-3467718
The complaint
Mr P complains about how ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) administered his investment 
account.
In particular, Mr P has complained about how long it took to get a shareholding he held set 
up on his account properly, how long it took to transfer that shareholding elsewhere and how 
he lost money as a result of not being able to sell that shareholding when he wanted.
What happened
ITI Capital took on Mr Ps account in June 2020. Mr Ps account had been frozen for a time 
before that. During that time the shares in a shareholding he held were replaced by new 
shares due to a corporate action. Mr Ps shares needed to be exchanged for new ones. 
Mr P got in touch with ITI Capital about his account on 4 August 2020 and on 11 August he 
specifically raised the issue of his shareholding needing to be updated. On 4 September he 
chased ITI Capital and said his account wasnt showing a value for the shareholding and he 
asked ITI Capital to rectify this. He chased again on 13, 16 and 21 September 2020.
At that point ITI Capital acknowledged the shares needed to be exchanged and told Mr P it 
couldnt give a timescale for this as it was up to the company registrar and out of its hands. 
Mr P asked ITI Capital for an update on 16 October 2020. He approached a third party for 
help to chase ITI Capital on 12 November 2020. The third party reassured Mr P that hed be 
getting new shares for old and wouldnt lose financially as a result. Mr P continued to chase 
ITI Capital for progress during November, with the third party helping him. He later made a 
contribution to fund that third partys services.
ITI Capital told Mr P the issue with the shareholding had been resolved on 7 April 2021.
ITI Capital has told us that once it took over Mr Ps account, it needed to be recognised by 
the registrar as the new nominee before the share exchange could take place. Also it has 
told us that while Mr Ps account had been frozen, and as a result, his shares had been 
switched to certificated form and needed to be switched back to electronic form first. It has 
said arranging all this wasnt straightforward and involved the circulation of paper documents 
between various parties, which was more difficult during the pandemic period. It has told us 
it worked tirelessly to complete the process. Also it has told us the problems arose before it 
took on the account and it wasnt aware of the situation when it first took on the account.
Mr P has told us he phoned ITI Capital to try to sell the shares on 15 July 2021 and also on 
20 July 2021. In response he received an email from ITI Capital to the effect that it wasn't 
taking new orders, so he couldnt sell his shares. ITI Capital has told us restrictions on 
accounts had been put in place in December 2020. From what it has said, this meant that at 
the times in July 2021 when Mr P has said he wanted to sell his shares he couldnt.
Mr P contacted ITI Capital again on 27 July 2021 asking to either sell the shares or transfer 
them out. ITI Capital told him it could carry out transfers for assets held on a different system 
but not for the system that held Mr Ps shares. So Mr P understood he was waiting for his 
shares to be moved to the right system. He approached the third party again for more help to 
chase this during August 2021 and into early September 2021.
ITI Capital has told us the suspension affecting Mr Ps shares ended on 24 September 2021. 
The closing price at that time was lower than it had been when Mr P phoned about selling 
his shares in July 2021. Mr P didnt sell his shares at that point. ITI Capital has told us it told 
Mr P on 6 October 2021 that the suspension had been lifted and that he could transfer if he 
wanted but he would need to submit a transfer request from his new provider to do so. It has 
told us that on 8 October 2021 it received Mr Ps transfer request and the transfer to his new 
provider concluded on 4 November 2021. Mr P did not sell his shares after the transfer. He 
says significant life events, including moving to and renovating a new home, meant he had 
to turn his attention to other matters. The shares subsequently fell in value significantly.
ITI Capital says it communicated the trading suspension to all customers. Also it says it told 
Mr P in July, August and September 2021 that it needed a transfer request from his new 
provider, but only received this in October 2021. Mr P has said his new provider did ask for a 
transfer earlier, but the request was rejected.
ITI Capital says resolving the issues with the new shares took longer than normal but that 
many of the delays were outside its control. But it says it recognises the impact the situation 
had on Mr P and it has accepted it played its part in causing Mr Ps distress and frustration. 
It says it failed to manage Mr Ps expectations at times during what was a long process and 
was unable to answer all his emails and phone calls  although it says the phone difficulties 
were in part due to pandemic-related out of office working. While recognising Mr P had other 
difficult issues to handle during the period, it says it cant fairly be held responsible for the 
impact of those on Mr P.
Overall, ITI Capital it has said it didnt give Mr P the level of service it wouldve wanted. It 
offered £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its failings caused him. 
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should pay Mr P £600. ITI Capital didnt agree. Mr P has 
said he considers a much higher amount would be appropriate.
As this matter couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. I wrote to 
Mr P and ITI Capital with thoughts on the merits of our investigators redress suggestion. 
ITI Capital didnt reply. Mr Ps reply emphasised the financial importance to him of the sums 
that are the subject of this complaint and the fact he was unable to access those funds. He 
said he has since borrowed money from relatives. 
Mr P has explained previously how the period in which the events he has complained about 
took place was a very difficult period for him both personally and financially.
Ive not set out here all Mr P has said previously about his personal and financial situation 
during the period. But in reaching my decision I have considered all Mr P has said as well as 
all ITI Capital has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.I agree with ITI Capital that it shouldve given Mr P a better service and that it failed to keep 
him sufficiently informed about the process of getting the new shares onto his account. 
Also, I think the process took too long. I dont overlook what ITI Capital has said about the 
work involved and the difficulty of dealing with a paper-based process. But it was seven 
months from Mr Ps first enquiry and longer from when ITI Capital first took on the account. 
Im not persuaded this couldnt and shouldnt have been completed sooner. 
Also Im not persuaded that ITI Capital doesnt bear some responsibility for that. In reaching 
this view, I note ITI Capital took weeks to offer Mr P an explanation of what was happening. 
Also Mr P had to raise his issue with ITI Capital rather than being told of a problem first by 
ITI Capital. Both points in my view suggest ITI Capital wasnt as on top of this issue as it 
ought to have been. 
That said, I think ITI Capitals redress offer largely acknowledged these shortcomings and 
the distress and inconvenience they caused Mr P  although I note his frustration and 
anxiety with this was such that he sought out third party help and reassurance.
But I dont think ITI Capitals offer gave sufficient weight to the inconvenience and distress 
caused to Mr P by his not being able to sell his shares when he wanted. I think witnessing 
the reduction in value from when he first called about selling them to the point when they 
became tradable, caused Mr P not only inconvenience and frustration but considerable 
distress. At the time he was first able to trade them with ITI Capital the shares were worth 
around £200 less than when he first called about selling them. In my view he wouldnt have 
suffered this distress if it hadnt been for ITI Capitals failings. My award gives this emphasis.
Turning to the time taken to transfer out the shares, ITI Capital says it needed a transfer 
request from the new provider and didnt get one until October 2021. Mr P disputes this. But 
even if ITI Capital is right, I think it very likely the process wouldve been completed more 
quickly than it was if ITI Capital had been able to process transfers and able to help Mr P 
through the process at it should have. ITI Capital got the request it needed within days of 
telling Mr P that things could proceed, for example. That said, it is apparent Mr Ps transfer 
request was made only after he found he was unable to sell the shares. So it is a secondary 
issue in that sense and also in the sense that in my view the root of his distress in that period 
was that he had been powerless to dispose of the shares as he had wanted.
Dealing with ITI Capitals failings was no doubt more difficult for Mr P given the personal 
backdrop he has described. But Id emphasise my award is only for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by ITI Capitals failings, and not for the distress caused by his 
personal situation. I note, though, that the potential value of his shares was a significant 
value to him and his inability to access it did have an impact on his financial wellbeing.
With this and all Ive said above in mind, I think it is fair and reasonable for ITI Capital to pay 
Mr P £600 for the distress and inconvenience its failings caused Mr P. Mr P believes a much 
higher amount would be fair. Ive carefully considered all he has said  including about his 
financial situation now  but, on balance, while I accept what he has said about his situation, 
Im not persuaded that this means the award I make here is not fair and reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about the fall in value of Mr Ps shares that took place after they had 
become tradeable in September 2021 and after they had been transferred to Mr Ps new 
provider. Given that the shares were already tradable at that point, in my view it would not be 
fair and reasonable for ITI Capital to compensate Mr P for that fall. I note also that Mr P did 
not sell the shares. Also, as Ive explained above, my award for distress takes into account 
the distress Mr P suffered due to falls or fluctuations in the value of his shares that took 
place during the period after he called about selling them and before he was able to. I think this best takes proper account of the impact on Mr P of those events.
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should compensate Mr P by paying him £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience its failings caused him.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay this sum to Mr P within one month of ITI Capital Limited 
being notified of Mr Ps acceptance of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr P 
simple interest on the outstanding sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my 
decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mr P the outstanding sum.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and order ITI Capital Limited 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman