DRN-3919374
The complaint
W complains that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited unfairly declined to cover a claim 
it made on a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
What happened
W held a directors and officers liability insurance policy (D&O policy) with AXA XL. The 
policy was arranged by a broker, H. 
In February 2020, a letter was sent by representatives of another business, B, to Ms A. This 
alleged Ms A, W and others connected to W had breached confidentiality arising from a 
business relationship. The details of that allegation arent relevant to my decision.
In August 2020, B initiated legal proceedings against Ms A and W (among others). W 
contacted H so that a claim could be made. W held two policies which could provide cover 
for costs incurred in relation to these proceedings, the D&O policy with AXA XL and separate 
legal expenses insurance cover, provided by another insurer, M. H contacted M, but not AXA 
XL.
In November 2020, W renewed the D&O policy with AXA XL. In 2021, it was established that 
AXA XL hadnt been notified in August 2020, and so the claim was made.
AXA XL rejected cover for the claim. It said a condition of the policy which the claim had 
been made under required that any claim was made for a matter arising during the period of 
insurance. The period of insurance started in November 2020, and at that time the legal 
proceedings against Ms A and W had already started.
W complained to AXA XL and then our service. Our investigator thought AXA XL had acted 
fairly. W didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Im not looking in this decision at the actions of H in failing to 
notify AXA XL of the claim in August 2020. That is the subject of a separate complaint by W 
about H.
It cant be disputed that the first AXA XL knew of the legal claim against W and Ms A was in 
2021. AXA XL wasnt notified in February 2020 (after the first letter from Bs 
representatives), August 2020 (when legal proceedings were initiated by B) or in November 
2020, when the policy was renewed.
The claim was therefore made under the renewed policy, to run from November 2020 to 
November 2021. The policy includes a condition which says:
We will pay on behalf of the director and/or trustee loss arising from a notifiable claim 
against the director and/or trustee in their capacity as such provided that the notifiable claim 
is first made during the period of insurance
A notifiable claim is defined as a claim or an investigation or a criminal prosecution or an 
extradition notice or an asset and liberty proceeding or an identity theft claim.
A claim is defined as being any demand for compensation or damages, or the allegation of 
a right that can be enforced through a civil proceeding, alleging a wrongful act.
The period of insurance is the period stated in the schedule which in this case was listed as 
a year from November 2020 to November 2021.
What this means is that in order for a claim to be covered on Ws policy, it had to be notified 
between November 2020 and November 2021, and have come to Ws attention during that 
same period.
It cant be disputed that W knew of the claim prior to November 2020. It had notified H of the 
claim in August 2020, and Ms A received a letter from Bs solicitors, referencing W and 
seeking undertakings from Ms A and W in February 2020 . So its clear that the matter giving 
rise to the claim didnt occur during the period of insurance. 
Im therefore satisfied AXA XL has acted reasonably by declining cover for Ws claim on the 
D&O policy. The effect of the relevant policy conditions was that W was only covered if the 
claim came to Ws attention (and notified to AXA XL) during the period of. That didnt happen 
with this claim.
W held a D&O policy with AXA XL which covered the period from November 2019 and 
November 2020. That contained a similar policy condition that only matters arising during 
that period would be covered on the policy. AXA XL has said that even though it wasnt 
obliged to, because it didnt receive any notification of the claim until after the policy was 
renewed in November 2020, it has considered whether any cover is available under the 
previous policy.
Both policies had essentially the same terms and conditions, with the exception of the 
applicable excess.
AXA XL has said that even if it had received notification of the claim in August 2020, it would 
have declined cover on the policy. This is because of a condition of the policy which says:
We must be notified in writing, by email or by telephone to the notification address stated 
below, or shown in the schedule, as soon as practicably possible however such notification 
must be received by us during the period of insurance:
(a) Any notifiable claim made against you or any person insured which is likely to fall 
within the scope of this policy
(b) Any circumstances of which you or the director &/or trustee shall become aware 
which are likely to give rise to a notifiable claim being made against you or the 
director &/or trustee
A further condition of the policy says:
No admission, offer, promise or payment is to be made or given by you or on your behalf or 
any person insured without our prior written consent. In the event of breach of this condition, 
we shall have no liability under this policy, unless you show that non-compliance with this condition could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.
The combined effect of these conditions is that a claim needs to be notified at the earliest 
possible time, and that no negotiation or settlement of a claim should be discussed prior to 
AXA XL being notified. This is a fair position  if AXA XL is going to be asked to cover costs 
and settlements arising from such negotiations then it should know about them and have the 
right to be part of decision making. 
From the evidence available to me, I think its fair to say the claim should have been notified 
to AXA XL in February 2020, or shortly after that, after the letter from Bs representatives 
was received. This alleged Ms A, and W, had breached confidentiality and sought 
undertakings from Ms A and W. Following that letter, there were discussions with Bs 
representatives and in August 2020 a settlement with B was proposed. When that was 
rejected, B initiated court proceedings and W notified H. 
AXA XL says by not being informed prior to Ms A, and W, entering into discussions with B 
about a potential settlement, its position would have been prejudiced. I agree with this 
conclusion. By not being party to those discussions, AXA XL wasnt able to give advice as to 
what settlement it would consider covering, or given the opportunity to limit its liability.
I know W says it and Ms As involvement in these discussions was limited. I think its 
reasonable to say that by being part of this, W and Ms A were considered to be parties to, 
and in agreement with, the offers made to settle the claim. I also think its likely a claim 
would have been made for any losses covered by the policy which resulted from those 
discussions, if the offer had been accepted. Im satisfied AXA XL has fairly referred to this 
condition as being a further reason why cover for a claim, even if submitted in August 2020, 
would have been declined.
Im also aware that W sent an email to an address listed in policy documents issued by H. 
That email address isnt listed in the AXA XL policy documents, which set out the claims 
process and terms and conditions, and which W doesnt dispute it had been provided. In any 
case, such an email wasnt sent until August 2020, so even though it wasnt sent to AXA XL, 
even if it had been, it wouldnt have impacted on the decision regarding cover.
Im satisfied AXA XL has made a reasonable conclusion when it explained why a claim on 
the previous policy wouldnt be successful. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman