DRN-4045374
The complaint
Mr L complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) lent to him when he could not 
afford it. 
What happened
Using information from FOL here is a loan table. There is a gap between loans 5 and 6 
which our adjudicator treated as a break in the lending relationship and so the second loan 
chain commenced at loan 6. I agree.
Loan Approved Repaid Amount Instalment
1 18 February 2019 19 February 2019 £160 4
2 26 February 2019 29 March 2019 £500 4
3 29 March 2019 3 April 2019 £500 4
4 9 April 2019 11 May 2019 £480 4
5 14 May 2019 11 May 2019 £500 4
Gap in lending
6 9 March 2021 11 March 2021 £500 4
7 23 March 2021 1 June 2021 £500 4
 
After Mr L had complained, FOL replied with its final response letter in June 2022 in which it 
gave details of what Mr L had told it as part of his applications, what the amounts were for 
each loan, the terms, and the repayments. It explained that it checked Mr Ls income and it 
carried out a credit search for each loan approved. It did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
In August 2022 Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and he told 
us that he was in a lot of debt at the time he took these loans and he was gambling the funds 
which is still going on at the time he complained to us. He offered to send us any document 
we may need.
Our adjudicator decided that the information Mr L had given to FOL in relation to loans 1 to 3 
was enough for it to see that he could afford the loans. By the time Mr L reapplied to it for 
loan 4, FOL would have already seen that hed taken three loans out in a relatively short 
time and so she felt that FOL ought to have asked Mr L for more questions about his 
borrowing. 
Plus, she felt that by loan 5 FOL ought to have built a more detailed picture of Mr Ls 
finances before lending.
But she also went on to say that we havent received a copy of your bank statements from 
around the time, or your credit report, so I cant safely say what better checks wouldve 
revealed for loans four and five  or, if they wouldve made a difference. But if youre able to 
provide me with this information Ill be happy to take a look.
For loans 6 and 7 which our adjudicator treated as a new lending chain, she felt that the 
income and the expenditure figures Mr L had given to FOL was enough for it to rely on when 
making the lending decision as they were at the start of the new loan chain. So, she did not 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
 
Mr L said to us he did not fully understand our adjudicators view. But he had emailed to say 
that he did not agree with that view and wanted an ombudsman to look at it all. 
Later, our adjudicator tried to call Mr L to discuss the complaint with him but was not able to 
make contact. She emailed Mr L to ask him for his bank account statements for around 
April and May 2019 (loans 4 and 5) but none have been received.
In the meantime, I had asked FOL for the credit searches it had carried out for Mr L before 
lending. These were only sent to us after the adjudicators view had been sent to Mr L and 
Ive reviewed them all. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
FOL had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. FOLs checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest FOL should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. 
FOL was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L has been given several opportunities to send to us the copy bank account statements 
or other documents to support his complaint claim, but none has been received. 
Ive reviewed the information that Mr L gave to FOL about his income and his expenditure 
and that it carried out verification checks on his income. It had no reason to doubt Mr Ls 
expenditure figures. These were:
Loans 1  4: Net monthly income: £1,600 Financial commitments: £470 
Loan 5: Net monthly income: £1,600 Financial commitments: £770 
Loans 6 & 7: Net monthly income: £1,765 Financial commitments: £645
These show that Mr L was able to afford the loan repayments for each of the loans he 
applied for.
The credit check search details were sent to us recently and I have reviewed them. For 
loans 1 to 4 Mr Ls overall debt level was not particularly high at around £4,000 but it varied 
a bit each time. I did think about the fact that Mr L had carried out a lot of searches for credit 
with several providers but as the loan applications to FOL were relatively modest over a 
short term then Id not really consider that FOL would have been too concerned. 
Mr Ls record did show he had an account which had defaulted in 2017 but that had been 
some time before he applied for loan 1 and lenders such as FOL are used to lending to 
customers with some adverse credit entries, So, I doubt, on its own, that would have alerted 
FOL to a problem with Mr Ls finances when he applied to them several years later. 
As the lending relationship continued, the fast repayments on the previous loans Mr L had 
been doing would have been factored into the creditworthiness assessments FOL carried 
out. Although Mr L may say that he had been gambling the funds from FOL, theres no 
evidence I have seen that FOL knew, or ought to have known, of that spending habit. 
However, by loan 5, I agree with our adjudicator, that I think Mr L had been applying for and 
repaying loans in relative quick succession and Mr Ls overall debt level had increased to 
around £7,000 by loan 5. The FOL credit search showed that debt increase. So, I think that 
FOL ought to have made some more in-depth enquires to establish why it was that Mr L 
needed the loans so regularly. I dont think it did that.
But as Mr L has sent to us nothing further with which I can see what it was that FOL would 
have seen if it had carried out additional searches then I can take it no further. I dont uphold 
Mr Ls complaint about loans 1 to 5.
When Mr L applied for loans 6 and 7 there had been a significant gap and so I do think that 
FOL was reasonable in its approach to treat loans 6 and 7 as being at the start of a new 
lending chain. The break in that lending relationship would have meant that FOL was not likely to have 
considered that Mr L had any financial issues such that it needed to be alerted to do any in-
depth checks. 
The checks it did carry out were proportionate and the credit search showed that Mr L took 
loans regularly but seemed always to repay them. The adverse entries on the file low in 
number  for instance the 2017 default was the only default he had - and there were no 
other entries such as insolvency or late payments or arrears. Overall I do not consider that 
FOL did anything wrong lending to him for loans 6 and 7. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman