DRN-1627098
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that Clydesdale Bank Plc misled him about the interest rate that he would 
receive on a loan. 
What happened
Mr F applied for a personal loan on 24 May 2019. He says his application was based on an 
APR of 2.9% and at this rate he was comfortable he could afford the repayments. He says 
his application was approved and the rate headlined was 3% but having looked at the loan 
agreement the APR was 5.9% and the monthly repayments higher than he had budgeted 
for. Mr F raised a complaint with Clydesdale Bank and says his complaint wasnt fully 
addressed and he still wasnt clear why his application wasnt approved at the rate he had 
expected. 
Mr F is also concerned that any credit searches carried out by Clydesdale Bank could have 
a negative impact on any future loan applications. 
Clydesdale Bank says that the interest rate offered to a consumer may differ from the 
representative APR based on its assessment of each customers financial circumstances. It 
says Mr Fs loan application was approved with a rate of 5.9%.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service as he felt the interest rate information was 
misleading. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that it was made clear that actual rates 
could differ from the representative rate and that the actual rate would be determined based 
on an assessment of the applicant. He said there was no evidence to show Mr F had been 
approved at a 3% rate and that he didnt find anything to suggest Mr F had been treated 
unfairly. He also said that when Mr F completed his application he gave Clydesdale Bank 
permission to conduct a search on his credit file.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F applied for a personal loan in May 2019. At the time of his application I 
understand the advertised rate was 2.9%. While I can appreciate Mr F may have 
thought this rate would be available to him, it is reasonable that the rate on the loan 
wouldnt be confirmed until certain checks had been completed. I have looked at the 
screenshot provided by Clydesdale Bank in which a customer can calculate their 
loan. This includes a representative APR of 3%. There is information provided on the 
same page that the rate offered may differ from the representative rate. So, while I 
can understand why it may be upsetting that the offered rate was higher than the 
advertised rate, I do not find I can say that Clydesdale Bank was misleading Mr F 
regarding the rates available.
Mr Fs application was approved, and the pre-contract information was provided. This 
set out the cost of the credit. The rates were clearly recorded as 3.126% per annum 
and APR 5.9%. Details of the monthly payments were also set out. I appreciate the 
use of different interest rates can be confusing, but in this case I find the information 
provided to Mr F about the cost of the loan was enough to allow him to make an 
informed decision about whether to enter into the agreement.
Clydesdale Bank has confirmed that all personal loans are subject to status. It is a 
commercial decision as to whether to lend and at what rate. In this case, I have 
nothing to suggest that Mr F was treated unfairly in this process. His application was 
assessed, and a loan offer made which included clear information about the terms. I 
appreciate Mr Fs comments about the interest rate offered but I wouldnt expect 
Clydesdale Bank to provide details of its credit scoring criterion as this is 
commercially sensitive.
Mr F has also raised concerns about a credit search being left on his credit file and 
the impact this will have on any future loan applications. I dont have anything further 
to show what has been recorded on Mr Fs credit file, but I note the point Mr F has 
raised. However, given he applied for the loan it is reasonable that checks will be 
carried out including credit checks. I understand there is reference to this in the 
application process. Therefore, if a search was carried out, I cannot say that it is 
wrong that this would be recorded.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman