DRN-1957641
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision not to settle all of his claim 
under his Residential Property Owners insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr B contacted Allianz, as a tenant reported damage to their roof following high 
winds. Mr B said water was dripping from the roof into a bedroom and onto furniture.
As the weather conditions at the time didnt show storm conditions, Allianz asked Mr B to 
obtain a report showing the cause of damage. In September 2018 Mr B contacted Allianz 
and said hed sent two reports in April 2018. Allianz said it hadnt received these or heard 
from Mr B, so asked him to send them again.
Allianz received the reports in November 2018. Allianz accepted Mr Bs claim and met the 
repair costs to the roof under the Accidental Damage peril of the policy.
Mr B asked Allianz if his policy covered the internal damage. Allianz told Mr B to contact it 
after the roof repairs were completed. It said it could either consider estimates from Mr Bs 
contractor as it did for the external damage, or appoint a Loss Adjuster (LA). Mr B said hed 
prefer the second option.
In February 2019 Mr B contacted Allianz and said the roof repairs had been completed. So 
Allianz instructed a LA to visit the property. The LA reported that it was impossible to tell 
whether the damage being claimed for hadnt worsened due to the time that had passed. 
And the LA reported that not all of the damage  to a middle floor bathroom - was covered 
under the policy.
So Allianz said it would pay 50% of the costs of the internal damage to an upstairs bathroom 
and a bedroom, based on the Schedule of Works. It said there were delays which it wasnt 
responsible for which meant the repairs were inevitably higher - as it said the water damage 
would have got worse over this time.
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint as he didnt think Allianz had been fair. 
Our investigator found that Mr Bs policy provided landlords contents cover, but this didnt 
include Accidental Damage. She thought that due to the time that passed from September 
2018  when Mr B discovered Allianz hadnt received the reports  to February 2019, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Allianz to conclude that the damage may have got worse over time.
Mr B didnt agree. He doesnt think the outcome is fair as Allianz didnt send anyone to 
inspect the internal damage when it happened in April 2018. He believes the internal 
damage to furniture and carpets should be met. He said somebody attended and took 
photos of the outside of the property shortly after he made his claim to Allianz. If they had 
taken photos of the internal damage then, Mr B said this would have showed no further 
deterioration since April 2018.
Allianz told our investigator that it didnt appoint an adjuster to visit the property until Mr B 
contacted it in February 2019 when the roof repairs were completed  and this was 
supported by the notes it provided. 
Mr B remains unhappy that not all of his claim has been met. And so he would like an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are designed to cover specific insured perils such as storm, fire or theft. 
Consumers have the option to include Accidental Damage cover along with other benefits 
depending on the level of cover they require when they buy a policy.
As no storm conditions occurred when the damage occurred, Allianz has met Mr Bs claim 
for external damage under the Accidental Damage cover under the Buildings section of the 
policy. However, as Mr B doesnt have this level of cover for contents inside the property, 
this means Allianz has correctly declined his claim for damaged furniture and carpets. 
There isnt any evidence that Allianz instructed a LA to visit the property before February 
2019. So I cant conclude that Allianz acted unreasonably by failing to obtain evidence of the 
internal damage in April 2018.
I dont know why Allianz didnt receive the reports Mr B sent by post in April 2018. Six 
months had passed when Mr B sent revised reports to Allianz in November 2018. Allianz 
accepted Mr Bs claim for damage to the roof. But based on the information available, it 
seems there was a further three months before Mr B contacted Allianz to confirm those 
repairs had been completed. This meant the LA was instructed to inspect the internal 
damage ten months after the event. 
The LA reported damage to the ceilings of a top floor bathroom and bedroom. In his opinion, 
damage to the ceiling of a middle floor bathroom was more likely caused by an escape of 
water from the bathroom above due to the condition of the sealant around the bath. 
In relation to the ceiling damage of the top floor rooms, the LA wrote:
As the incident occurred so long ago, it is impossible to confirm whether this 
damage has worsened due to delays in external works proceeding.
I understand Mr B says he arranged for temporary repairs to be done in April 2018. And so 
he says the damage wasnt any worse by the time the LA attended. And I understand Mr Bs 
disappointment at the outcome of his claim. I dont have any evidence to show that a LA 
attended Mr Bs property before February 2019 on Allianzs behalf, or that it caused undue 
delay. So based on the information available to Allianz, I think its decision to meet half of the 
claim for internal damage was fair and reasonable. So this means Im not asking Allianz to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman