DRN-3263383
The complaint
 Ms C has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) charged her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft, contributing to her financial difficulties. She is also unhappy that 
Halifax ultimately decided to default her account.
What happened
 Ms C complained to Halifax about the overdraft charges and interest that were being 
applied to her account. She said the charges had got out of control and was unhappy with 
the help that Halifax had given her. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms C was 
dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Halifax ought 
to have realised that Ms C was experiencing financial difficulty by May 2015 and so shouldnt 
have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Halifax disagreed 
so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicator that Halifax 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after May 
2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms C was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Ms C was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. While her account did receive 
credits each month these were invariably transferred back out again, usually on the same 
day, so it was clear that she wasnt making any significant inroad into reducing the 
overdrawn balance of the account. Ms Cs account also regularly saw balances in excess of 
the agreed overdraft, another sign that the account wasnt being operated as it should have 
been. 
I understand Halifax has said that repeated overdrawn balances wouldnt have been 
considered an indication of financial difficulty. But I think it would have been clear that the 
way Ms C was managing her account wasnt sustainable in the long term, and so I think that 
this should still have prompted Halifax to have realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. I note that Halifax 
did offer assistance form 2017 onwards, with charges being suspended, repayment plans 
being agreed, and ultimately the account being moved to recoveries and defaulted. But I 
think it is arguable that this action should have been taken at a much earlier stage. 
And because I dont think Halifax reacted to Ms Cs overdraft usage as early as it should 
have, and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Ms C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt 
treat Ms C fairly and she lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Cs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after May 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Cs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in May 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. Halifax should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman