DRN-1664842
 
The complaint
Miss D says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Miss D took out in October 1996. The credit 
card and PPI policy ended before April 2008.
One of our adjudicators did not uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ds case.
I can see that MBNA conducted this sale through the post, so because of this I am satisfied 
MBNA didnt give advice. So I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable. I do 
need to look at whether it provided clear enough information though so that Miss D could 
make an informed decision on the policy.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. This is because:
After considering information about Miss Ds circumstances at the time of sale, I am 
persuaded she was eligible for the MPPI policy.
 
I think MBNA made Miss D aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. 
I say this because I can see on the application form Miss D completed and signed, 
that she has ticked a box to agree to have PPI. So it seems likely to me, after seeing 
this, that Miss D chose to have PPI with his credit card. 
 
The information MBNA gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Miss D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. 
 
I dont think MBNA properly explained the cost. I can see that some information is 
provided on the application form, but it didnt explain that the premium would be 
added to Miss Ds credit card balance and could attract interest. It also failed to 
explain the level of benefit (3% of the statement balance) or the fact that Miss D has to continue paying the premium if she is receiving this benefit. But I think Miss D 
would have bought the policy anyway if better information had been provided.
 
I say this because I dont think Miss D had enough provisions at the time of sale to 
meet her repayments in the event she had to stop working unexpectedly. And the 
policy provided Miss D with a safety net, even at such a modest level of benefit, 
which in his circumstances at the time of sale, she might have considered useful.
 
I acknowledge the comments Miss D has made about the sale of the PPI policy including 
that she didn't think the cost of PPI was mentioned on her statements. But I have concluded 
on this occasion that she chose to have the policy, so she would have been aware of it. In 
conclusion, I havent found anything to uphold this complaint, as Miss D has not lost out as a 
result of the problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman