DRN-3627228
Complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In February 2021, Mr L received a number of payments into his Metro account. Metro 
subsequently received a fraud notification from a third-party bank saying that one of its 
customers had been scammed into making payments from their account to Mr L. 
Metro wrote to Mr L on 23 February 2021 and informed him that it would be closing his 
account with immediate effect. It then went on to register a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
After learning that Metro had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him, Mr L 
complained to Metro. Metro looked at Mr Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr L 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns. She didnt think that Metro had done 
enough to show that Mr L was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr L. 
Metro didnt respond so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr L is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Ls account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr L was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr L allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ls complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ls account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note Metro had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably. And Im not persuaded that Metro had sufficient evidence 
to even meet the first part of the test.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by setting out that Metro doesnt appear to have 
contacted Mr L about the activity on his account, once it received the notification from the 
third-party bank. It simply sent Mr L a letter saying that it would be closing his account. So 
Metro didnt give Mr L any opportunity to explain his side of the story. And I have to question 
how it could possibly have assessed his knowledge and intention before it recorded the 
fraud marker against him - arguably this in itself is unfair.
Since learning about the marker Mr L has explained that the payments were for crypto-
currency hed sold. And hes supplied extensive evidence, which has since been sent to 
Metro to support this. So, in my view, there was a reasonable possibility that had Metro 
received the evidence and explanation it did, it would have realised it received the 
notifications in question as a result of a misunderstanding or non-fraud related dispute, 
rather than because fraudulent activity had taken place. 
More importantly it is Metros responsibility to demonstrate that Mr L was knowingly involved 
in fraudulent activity. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Metro needs to have 
relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In other 
words, a reasonable suspicion that Mr L was complicit in fraudulent activity. Simply pointing 
out that it received a report that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ls account just isnt enough to 
meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as I think that Mr L would have 
supplied the evidence hes supplied to us, had Metro asked him for his version of events 
during the course of its investigation. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that didnt Metro have sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that Mr L was involved in fraudulent activity. As this is the case, I 
think that it was unfair for Metro Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Metro needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr L and also pay 
him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Metro Bank PLC should 
remove any fraud markers it has recorded against Mr L and pay him £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman