DRN-3358044
The complaint
Mr H complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money applying interest to his 
credit card account. 
Mr H is represented in this complaint but Ive referred to Mr H only for clarity.
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card to take advantage of a 0% balance transfer offer. This 
promotional interest rate on his balance transfer ended on 4 July 2021.
Interest was applied to his account following this and Mr H complained that Virgin hadnt 
made it clear enough when the promotional interest rate was ending. And if they had, hed 
have moved the balance to another card and wouldnt have incurred interest. Mr H was also 
unhappy that someone hed spoken to on the phone at Virgin had called him by the wrong 
name.
 
Virgin responded to say that the date had been provided to Mr H when he first made the 
balance transfer in July 2020, had been shown on his monthly statements since then and a 
reminder had been sent to him shortly before the promotional rate had ended. They 
accepted that Mr H had received poor service on the phone and credited his account with 
£25 as an apology. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered his concerns. He said, in summary, he was satisfied the date had 
been given to Mr H at the outset and appeared on his statements. He accepted that the date 
did not appear on the first page of the statement but didnt think this mattered as it was Mr 
Hs responsibility to check his statements. The Investigator also thought £25 was fair for 
poor service he received when he called Virgin. 
Mr H said he accepted that Virgin had resolved the part of his complaint relating to poor 
service on the phone. But he did not agree with the Investigators findings about the 
promotional interest rate. He said he had not received the email reminder Virgin sent him 
and as Virgin do not send paper statements or have a website  the account can only be 
managed using an app  he didnt think this was fair. He said hed be willing to accept 50% 
of the interest refunded in resolution of the complaint. 
As Mr H did not agree, the complaints been passed to me decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says Virgin did not do enough to remind him that the promotional interest rate was due 
to expire on his credit card account. 
Mr H arranged his balance transfer online. Virgin has provided a sample screenshot of the 
offer selection process. I can see that the expiry date of all the available offers is set out on 
this screen. So I think its likely the offer expiry date wouldve been shown to Mr H when he 
first arranged the balance transfer. 
After that, statements were issued every month. The end date of the promotional interest 
rate is set out on page 4. Mr H doesnt think this is prominent enough because its on page 4 
and not highlighted or in bold. I can see why he says this, but the terms and conditions say 
its the customers responsibility to check their statements. And Mr H was aware that he had 
made a balance transfer to benefit from an offer which would eventually expire. Also, a 
reminder was added to the front page of Mr Hs May 2021 statement which was under a bold 
heading Your introductory offer is about to expire. So Ive found the expiry date was set out 
appropriately in Mr Hs statements. 
Mr H is also unhappy because the account can only be managed via an app, rather than via 
a website and paper statements. So most correspondence, like statements, are issued via 
the app. But this change occurred a number of months prior to the balance transfer expiry 
date and when Mr H applied for the account he had the option to request paper statements 
after the account was opened. So if Mr H wouldve preferred to manage his account in this 
way he couldve opted for paper statements at that time. So I dont think the account being 
managed by an app prevented Mr H from being aware of the expiry of the promotional rate. 
Virgin sent a reminder email to the email address they held for him  which is the email 
address he provided as part of the application although I note its not his name. Virgin have 
also provided their email records to show the email was delivered and did not bounce back. 
Mr H says he did not receive this email. Thats unfortunate, but Im satisfied that Virgin sent 
the email and to the correct contact details. So I find Virgin did take appropriate steps to 
remind Mr H his offer was expiring by sending an email directly to the address hed provided.
 
Overall, I dont think Virgin have treated Mr H unfairly by applying interest to his balance 
transfer amount after the promotional rate expired. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman