DRN-2098055
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Mercantile Claims Management Solutions Limited and the 
fees they were changed after a successful claim was made on their behalf.
What happened
In mid-2017, Mr B and Mrs B instructed Mercantile to pursue section 75 claims against a 
timeshare company, who Ill refer to as E. They signed a letter of authority and a term of 
business which set out the no win no fee agreement.
Mercantile then submitted the claim to Lender S on Mr B and Mrs Bs behalf. Lender S didnt 
uphold the claim, so Mercantile referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service in January 
2019. Mercantile chased regularly for updates and the claim was upheld by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in December 2019. So, Mercantile then invoiced Mr B and Mrs B for 
their success fee of £335.54. But Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy about this fee, so they 
raised a complaint.
Mr B and Mrs B complained they werent aware that Mercantile would charge a fee if the 
claim was successful. So, they didnt think it should be payable. Mercantile didnt agree, 
explaining the work theyd completed that led to the successful refund and pointed towards 
the terms of business which they thought explained their fees clearly. So, they didnt offer 
anything more.
While the complaint was ongoing, Mercantile continued to chase Mr B and Mrs B for 
payment. In March 2020, Mr B and Mrs B made Mercantile aware they were on holiday so 
asked for the collections activity to be paused and they would discuss payment when they 
returned. Mercantile agreed to this request. But, on the same day, Mercantile also issued 
their response to the complaint. Mr B and Mrs B made the complaint handler away they were 
on holiday and that itd been agreed for the collections activity to be paused. But the 
complaint handler responded explaining he didnt think this was reasonable, and advised he 
thought pursuing the success fee through a court would be the best course of action.
Mr B and Mrs B paid the success fee in April. But they remained unhappy with Mercantile 
and so referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. She thought Mercantile 
made it reasonably clear to Mr B and Mrs B that a success fee would be charged. So, she 
thought theyd acted fairly when invoicing Mr B and Mrs B after the claim was successful. 
But she thought Mercantile had acted unreasonably when suggesting they would take legal 
action in March, after it had already been agreed for the collection activity to be paused. She 
thought this wouldve been worrying for Mr B and Mrs B, especially as they were on holiday 
at the time. So, she thought Mercantile should pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 to recognise the 
upset this caused. Mr B and Mrs B agreed with this view.
But Mercantile didnt. They didnt think it was fair to say they should pay Mr B and Mrs B 
£100 when they felt the success shouldve been paid as soon as the invoice was sent. They 
explained if Mr B and Mrs B had paid the invoice, in line with the terms of the agreement, 
they wouldnt have been chased for payment while they were on holiday. So, they didnt 
agree they should compensate Mr B and Mrs B for this. As Mercantile didnt agree, the 
complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I considered whether Mercantile were fair to charge Mr B and Mrs B a success fee. I 
can see when Mr B and Mr B instructed Mercantile, they signed a letter of authority 
alongside the term of business. This explained clearly under the heading Mercantile Claims 
Fees that their fees for providing a service will be 30% plus VAT of any compensation 
recovered from a Third Party. This was also explained in the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. Because of this, I think Mercantile made it reasonably clear to Mr B and Mrs B 
that there would be a fee payable if their claims were successful. And they agreed to this 
condition when they signed the terms of business.
And Ive seen Mercantile submitted the claim to Lender S and then referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service when that returned unsuccessful. So, Im satisfied Mercantile 
completed the work that led to the successful refund Mr B and Mrs B received. Because of 
this, I think Mercantile were fair to invoice Mr B and Mrs B for their success fee, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. And Ive seen the fee they charged falls in line 
with these. So, I think Mercantile acted reasonably when charging Mr B and Mrs B a success 
fee and cant say they did anything wrong by doing so. 
But Ive seen during the collections process to recover this fee, Mercantile agreed to place 
their activity on hold while Mr B and Mrs B were on holiday. This was agreed on a call made 
on 13 March and the hold was agreed to be in place until they returned on 18 March.
On the same day the hold was agreed, Mercantile also issued their final response to Mr B 
and Mrs Bs complaint. Within this response, it gave Mr B and Mrs B until 17 March to pay 
the fee before legal proceedings would be issued. I can understand why Mr B and Mrs B 
wouldve been concerned by this as it didnt fall in line with the hold theyd already agreed. 
So, I can see they responded to make the complaint handler aware of the pause on the 
collection activity. I can understand why Mr B and Mrs B took this action as I think this 
wouldve been worrying and confusing due to the conflicting information.
And its the response to this e-mail that I think is unreasonable. I can understand why 
Mercantiles initial response to the complaint set a deadline for the fee to be paid. And as the 
hold was agreed just before the response was sent, I can understand why the initial 
response may not have taken this into account.
But Mr B and Mrs B made the complaints handler aware a hold until 18 March had been 
agreed. So, I wouldve expected Mercantile and the complaint handler to have honoured this 
agreement. Instead, Ive seen Mercantile responded explaining:My view is we issue the matter into court and let the courts decide as in this age of 
electronic money transfers one has the ability to send and receive monies wherever we are 
in the world, and the courts will share this view too.
I think this response was both unfair and unreasonable. I dont think it was fair for Mercantile 
to assume Mr B and Mrs B had the ability to make the payment. They were aware they were 
on holiday at the time so couldnt have been aware of the facilities and restrictions Mr B and 
Mrs B were subject to. And I think its unreasonable for Mercantile to threaten legal 
proceedings when a hold was in force. Nor do I think it was reasonable for Mercantile to 
speculate on any ruling a court may decide. I think the tone of this response was threatening 
and intimidating and I think it wouldve worried and upset Mr B and Mrs B. And I think this 
wouldve impacted the enjoyment of their holiday, which Mercantile were aware they were 
on. 
Putting things right
Because of the above, I think Mercantile should compensate Mr B and Mrs B to recognise 
the distress they suffered. And I think the £100 recommended by the investigator is a fair 
one, and in line with what I would direct. 
I understand Mercantile doesnt agree and have made the point that, if Mr B and Mrs B had 
paid the success fee when it was first invoiced, they wouldnt have been chased while they 
were on holiday in March. And I do understand their point of view. But, crucially, Mr B and 
Mrs B had the ability to dispute the fee if they were unhappy with it. Even though I dont think 
their dispute was correct, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to withhold payment till a 
response to their complaint had been received. And when that response was received, a 
hold on the collection activity had already been agreed. So, I dont think Mr B and Mrs Bs 
failure to pay the success fee initially impacts the fact Mercantile failed to honour the hold on 
the collection activity, or the tone of the email sent to Mr B and Mrs B while they were on 
holiday.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about Mercantile 
Claims Management Solutions Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £100 to recognise the upset they were caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman