DRN-2102086
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Aqua, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in March 2001. The policy was 
added to Mr Bs credit card account when he applied for the card online. The policy covered 
Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Bs 
representative didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Mr B wasnt given enough information to allow him to consider if the PPI was 
appropriate for him.
He had adequate provision in place, so wouldnt have purchased the PPI if hed 
received clearer information about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B's complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B's complaint for the following reasons:
I think Aqua made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and a separate product from the 
credit card, and that he chose to take it. I say this because the online application process 
required him to tick a box to confirm that he wanted it. He then received a credit card 
agreement through the post which had been pre-populated based on the information hed 
provided online. He signed, separately from the main application, to confirm that he wanted 
PPI. 
Aqua didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him.
Its possible the information Aqua gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr B has told us about the existing provision he had in 
place. He says he would have received six months full pay from his employer, followed by 
six months half pay, if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And that he had 
some savings. But the PPI would have given him peace of mind that his credit card 
payments could have been covered for up to 12 months if he couldnt work, and covered him 
if hed become unemployed. So I think he would have thought the PPI could have been a 
useful benefit. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
But Aqua has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Aqua got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Aqua didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Aqua has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Aqua, does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Aqua, does have to pay back to Mr B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman