DRN-4009466
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund him money he says he lost as a 
result of an investment scam. 
Mr C is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr C would like to recover about £7,800, which he says is the outstanding amount he lost to 
an investment scam.  In March, April and May 2022, Mr C made about eight payment 
transfers to a cryptocurrency exchange.
As Barclays Bank refused to refund anything to Mr C, he raised a complaint which he 
referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr C disagreed 
with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Having considered all the payments in this matter, I am of the view that Barclays Bank 
should have intervened in one of the payments made on 20 April 2022 for £3,200  which it 
indeed did.  I do not find that Barclays Bank should have intervened in any of Mr Cs other 
payments, as they were not so unusual or out of character.
Having listened to the telephone call recording about the above payment, I find that Barclays 
Bank asked Mr C meaningful questions and provided him with a robust scam warning which 
highlighted features of cryptocurrency scams.  Despite this, Mr C said he wanted to go 
ahead with his payment.
It is important to highlight that in the course of the call, Barclays Bank asked Mr C whether 
the investment concerned had been endorsed by a celebrity.  To which Mr C answered, no.  
This is at odds with what Mr C has said in his submissions to our Service.  Had Mr C 
mentioned the celebrity endorsement, I would have expected Barclays Bank to have gone 
further in its questioning and scam warning.  However, because Mr C did not mention the 
celebrity endorsement, I find that Barclays Banks questions and scam warning were 
proportionate to what information Mr C had provided.
In circumstances where a customer has misled their bank about what persuaded them to 
make payment  it would not be fair of me to conclude that the bank should be liable for its 
failure to go further in its questioning and scam warning provided.  In my judgment, this is 
what has happened in Mr Cs case, due to him deciding not to mention the celebrity 
endorsement.
Mr C has argued whether Barclays Bank solely relied on the fact that he told it that the 
investment was not celebrity endorsed.  Again, having listened to the call, I do not take the 
view that Barclays Bank relied on this solely.  I find that Mr C alleviated any concerns 
Barclays Bank may have had about the payment when he answered its questions, and, in 
doing so, assured Barclays Bank all was well.
So, taking all the above points together, I will not be asking Barclays Bank to do anything 
further in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman