DRN-2199879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about early repayment charge (ERC) paid in 2015 on a 
mortgage Mr M had with Nationwide Building Society. They consider the amount paid was 
too high, given there was only two months left on the interest rate products the ERC was 
linked to. Mr and Mrs M think the ERC should have been charged on a pro-rata basis based 
on how much of the term was left.  They dont consider the amount was a fair representation 
of the loss Nationwide would have incurred from them paying their mortgage off early.
What happened
In 2012 Mr M bought a property with the help of a Nationwide mortgage. Attached to the 
mortgage was a three-year fixed interest rate product. An ERC was payable if the mortgage 
was paid off before the end of the three-year period. The mortgage offer detailed that the 
charge would be equivalent to 4% of the amount repaid.
The following year Mr and Mrs M moved home and the existing interest rate product was 
transferred to the new mortgage. As Mr M was borrowing more, a second interest rate 
product was attached to the increase. The mortgage offer sent to Mr M detailed the 4% ERC 
associated with the original interest product and that a 3% ERC was linked to the second 
product.  
Mr M paid off the mortgage in 2015, before the end of both the interest rate product terms.  
He was changed a total of £2,986 for early repayment.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide about the amount of the ERC that was 
charged and its nature  that it was a fixed percentage throughout the term rather than a 
sliding scale or on a pro-rata basis. Mr and Mrs M think the amount was disproportionate 
when the mortgage payments for the two months remaining on the terms of the products 
would only have amounted to around £1,000.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It explained that the amount of ERCs 
was calculated over a tranche of mortgage contracts of a similar nature. It is allowed to do 
this and it was satisfied the amount of the ERCs on each of the products was appropriate. It 
also highlighted the ERCs were explained in the mortgage offers. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept Nationwides response to their complaint and asked us to 
consider their concerns. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, but he didnt recommend it 
be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that their complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. They said, it is completely unjust to expect someone to pay 
the same penalty to close the mortgage in month 1 as month 36. They reiterated their 
thoughts about the total ERC being disproportionate to the amount they would have paid to 
the mortgage over the remaining product term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use the tranche of 
money for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. 
Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that 
happens some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender 
remains liable its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its 
borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
its more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. The regulations 
allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. 
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ms comments that they think calculating an ERC by this method is 
to the financial benefit of the lender. We havent asked Nationwide in this particular case to 
complete an individual calculation for Mr and Mrs M, as it is very time consuming to do 
because it involves manual actuarial calculations. However, I have had experience of cases 
where that calculation has been provided, including some with Nationwide. In none of those 
cases did the individual calculation produce a figure that was lower than the ERC actually 
charged. 
In addition, calculating an ERC over a tranche of money means the lender can give more 
information when marketing and quoting for an interest rate product. A consumer can know 
what their ERC will be and is able to compare different products and different lenders. That 
wouldnt be possible if a lender did individual calculations.
As for how a lender formats an ERC, different lenders format their ERCs in different ways. 
There will be changes over time as an individual lenders knowledge and experience evolves 
and as the wider mortgage market changes. The decision Nationwide, and many other 
lenders made, to move to sliding scale ERCs doesnt mean the previous formats of ERCs 
were unfair or unreasonable. 
Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by 
Nationwide if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of 
the calculations, though they cant be made publicly available as theyre commercial 
sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was a reasonable 
pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 February 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman