DRN-3621406
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has handled his buildings 
insurance claim. 
He complains that esure caused avoidable delays and didnt keep him up to date. And that 
its failure to progress his claim caused the damage to worsen. Hes unhappy with esures 
handling of alternative accommodation and he considers it to be responsible for the 
increased water bills hes incurred during the life of the claim. 
Any reference to esure includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
. This is a lengthy claim. While it has spanned a period of nearly four years  and is still 
ongoing - my decision only considers events up until the time of esures final decision letter, 
which was sent in September 2021. 
Mr H has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by esure. In October 
2018, Mr H discovered an escape of water which was affecting the basement of his 
property where his kitchen is housed.
In mid-November 2018, following some inquiries, he informed esure the local water 
authority had told him the water supply where the leak occurred was his 
responsibility as its on his property. 
In the early months of the claim, it was discovered that the faulty water pipe needed 
replacing but the contractor that esure had assigned to repair it was unable to do so. 
And so, a temporary repair was carried out. 
In February 2019, esure approved Mr Hs quote for another contractor to carry out 
permanent repairs to the pipe.  
In early April 2019, the repairs to the pipe were completed. The next step was for 
esures contractor to strip out the affected areas, clean and arrange for the area to 
be dried before reinstatement works could begin. But, by the end of April, the kitchen 
units were still in situ, and the strip out hadnt started. 
Over the next six months, there were discussions between esures agents, and visits 
to Mr Hs property to determine the works required. 
In November 2019, esure approved the surveyors proposal that the reinstatement 
will happen in three stages. Mr H is told that works will proceed, and a kitchen pod 
will be installed at his property so he can remain in his home. 
In mid-December 2019, Mr H is informed that works will now likely commence in the 
new year. 
In February 2020, Mr H chases esure for an update. A pre-start meeting was 
arranged for 20 February but was pushed back to mid-March, then August 2020 for 
various reasons.
The works were set to begin on 14 September 2020 with an anticipated end date of                    
2 December 2020. But due to a supplier being unable to meet with Mr H and esures 
agents, the start date is delayed.
esure discussed with Mr H that its surveyor and contractors were concerned about 
Mr H and his family staying in the property and propose housing Mr H in short-term 
rental accommodation or postponing the works until the new year. Mr H explained 
he was not keen to move out and thinks that delaying the works until spring 2021 
might be sensible. esure wrote to him to confirm the claim was on hold.
In November 2020, Mr H contacted esure to say he didnt want the claim on hold and 
wants to discuss alternative accommodation. He highlighted it had taken esure six 
weeks to reply to him. 
Theres little progress from this time until March 2021  esure says this was due to 
the imposition of another lockdown and because it was awaiting Mr Hs decision on 
the kitchen design. 
In June 2021, esure tell Mr H alternative accommodation will be necessary and 
suggest that if hes unwilling to do move out, a cash settlement might be the better 
option. Mr H continues to look for alternative accommodation but says theres little 
availability. 
In July 2021, esure say nothing further can happen until the pandemic restrictions 
ease. Unhappy with the lack of progress, Mr L complains to esure. 
By the time of its final decision letter in September 2021, esure has provided a cash 
settlement offer to Mr H and says its no longer a viable option for Mr H to remain in 
the property. Mr H explained his preference to use esures contractors and raised 
questions about the cash settlement. 
Mr L brought a complaint to this Service and an Investigator considered what had 
happened up until the final response letter. 
He upheld Mr Ls complaint and said esure needed to pay £1,000 compensation. 
Whilst he accepted some of the delays werent esures fault, he said it had failed to 
progress the claim for a significant period and had unfairly put the onus on Mr H to 
arrange alternative accommodation. He said knowing that the damage would worsen 
over time would have added to Mr Hs stress. He said esure should consider any 
direct financial loss Mr H has incurred due to esures handling of the claim.
In response, Mr H provided evidence of water bills he said had increased because of 
his claim. esure said it would consider the water bills as part of the claim settlement. 
But it didnt agree to the compensation and said it considered £500 to be a fair 
amount. 
Our investigator remained of the position that £1,000 was fair and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined timeframe. But where theres lots of damaged and remedial works, things will 
obviously take longer. 
esure doesnt dispute that its caused avoidable delays. Its acknowledged that poor 
communication between itself and its contractors meant things didnt progress as quickly as 
they should. In the early months of the claim, it says there were delays with the faulty pipe 
being repaired and it admits it took too long to review Mr Hs quote for an independent 
contractor to complete the pipe repair meaning the claim didnt progress as it should have. 
Given Mr H had received notices from the water authority to complete the pipe repair in 10 
days (the first being issued in December 2018 and the second in January 2019), esures 
failure to progress the claim, would have no doubt compounded his stress at this time. 
esure considers the bulk of the delays to have occurred from after the faulty pipe was fixed 
in April 2019 to when the national lockdown was imposed in March 2020. And the evidence 
Ive seen does support this. But given esure has acknowledged it caused delays with the 
initial pipe repair, Im more persuaded the avoidable delays occurred between January 2019 
until March 2020  which is a significant period of time. 
Following the easing of lockdown restrictions, it appears that between September 2020 to 
July 2021 little progress was made with the claim. Whilst I accept Mr H may have contributed 
to some of the delays - because of his concerns about moving into alternative 
accommodation - Im not persuaded its fair to say the lack of progress during this time is 
solely due to this. 
Having made his concerns about moving out apparent  and having seemingly struggled to 
find alternative accommodation  Im not persuaded esure did enough to find him suitable 
housing. Whilst esure may have said it might be easier for Mr H to look for accommodation - 
because it needed to meet Mr Hs familys needs - it was ultimately, esures responsibility to 
find somewhere suitable for him. From what Ive seen, it was apparent the conversations 
about alternative accommodation were causing Mr H distress and esure should have done 
more to assist him. Had it done so, I think its likely the claim could have moved forwards 
during this time. 
I do, however, think its necessary to explain that it wasnt unreasonable for esure to change 
its position and require Mr H and his family to move out of the property so works could begin. 
Whilst I note Mr H is unhappy about this, esure ultimately has a duty of care towards him 
and his family when carrying out the repair works, and if it has deemed it to be unsafe for          
Mr H to remain in the property, its entitled to make that decision. I note in September 2021 it 
gave Mr H the option of a cash settlement to enable him to instruct his own contractors and 
remain living at the property - which I consider to be reasonable. 
I did note that in September 2021 the claim was put on hold. Mr H did say it would be 
sensible to pause things until the New Year so long as other elements of the claim  such 
as the design and scope of works, were completed during this time to enable the repair 
works to continue without delay. But then further coronavirus restrictions were put in place 
which prevented the claim from progressing. 
Whilst it wouldnt be fair to hold esure responsible for delays which were outside of its control  namely, coronavirus restrictions  it seems clear to me that esures actions over the life of 
the claim (up until its final response letter) significantly prolonged it. 
At the time of esures final response Mr H had been dealing with this claim for almost three 
years  a period significantly greater than the proposed three-to-four-month time scale for 
the repair works. Even when putting aside delays which werent attributable to esures 
handling of the claim, the avoidable delays amount to a significant proportion of the life of the 
claim. Having a claim pro-longed for this amount of time would understandably cause Mr H 
stress especially when the damage would worsen over time. When Ive thought about the 
above along couple with the fact Mr H had been given mixed messages from esures agents 
and had to spend time chasing esure for updates, Im satisfied £1,000 compensation suitably 
reflects the difficulties Mr H has experienced. 
Financial loss
Following our investigators view, Mr H submitted water bills which he says show his water 
bills increased because of the claim. These have been shared with esure who will consider 
these as part of the overall claim settlement. I consider this to be a reasonable course of 
action. If Mr H has concerns about how esure has considered these, he'd need to raise a 
complaint with it in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr H £1,000 compensation. 
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation with 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple 
interest. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman