DRN-3571044
The complaint
Mr A complains about several NRAM Limited mortgages that he was advised to take out in 
2004. Mr A is unhappy with the advice he received and believes he should have been 
advised to take out repayment mortgages only  instead of the four interest only mortgages. 
Mr A also believes the broker who arranged the mortgages was paid a commission for each 
of the mortgages and as this was not disclosed to Mr A at the time this has created an 
unfairness. 
What happened
In 2004 Mr A sought advice in relation to existing properties that he already owned, plus a 
new property he was looking to purchase. I understand that Mr A owned four properties  
three of which did not have existing mortgages and one that was mortgaged and was his 
home. Mr A was looking to raise capital to buy an additional property and was advised by a 
mortgage broker on this. 
Mr A was advised to take out interest only mortgages on the four existing properties and a 
relatively short time later, when he had sourced the additional property, was advised to take 
out a repayment mortgage on the new property he bought to be his home. 
Mr A complained about the advice he received, as he believes he should not have been 
advised to take out interest only mortgages for the buy to let properties. Mr A believes he 
should have been advised to take out repayment mortgages, thereby reducing the capital 
balance of each mortgage over time since the mortgages started. 
Mr A also believes that the mortgage adviser was paid a commission from NRAM for taking 
out the mortgages and as this commission was not disclosed to Mr A, he believes he has 
been treated unfairly. 
The mortgage broker who advised Mr A is no longer trading and Mr A has had several 
different complaints considered by our service relating to the issues referred to here. This is 
partly due to different entities being responsible for different aspects of Mr As complaint. 
NRAM also objected to our service considering Mr As complaint points about the 
commission, but an ombudsmans decision has already set out that this aspect of Mr As 
complaint can be considered. 
Mr As concerns about the advice he received to take out the interest only and repayment 
mortgages have already been considered by our service and these are not therefore points 
that I will be responding to here in this decision. This decision will focus only on Mr As 
concerns about the potential undisclosed commission payments between NRAM and the 
mortgage broker, in respect of the interest only mortgages. 
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint here ultimately concluded that she was 
unable to uphold the complaint. She explained that NRAM had limited documentary 
evidence from the time of the sale in 2004 and this was not unsurprising considering this 
was around 18 years ago. From the very limited evidence that is now available the 
investigator did not consider there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate NRAM had 
treated Mr A unfairly. 
The investigator also referred to the advice Mr A had received to take out the interest only 
mortgages but subsequently clarified that as the advice had previously been considered 
under a separate complaint, the advice would not be considered as part of this final decision. 
Mr A did not accept the investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to me final 
determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A believes that there was an undisclosed commission payment between NRAM, the 
lender, and the mortgage broker, and that this represents an unfair relationship under S140A 
Consumer Credit Act. Amongst other things, Mr A has referred to a Court of Appeal 
judgment which he believes supports his arguments. 
The difficulty here is that the mortgages were taken out 18 years ago and there is limited 
information available relating to any potential commission payments. In order to uphold Mr 
As complaint there are a number of things to consider. Whether commission was paid, if it 
was what was the amount paid and was that disclosed at the time, are all relevant 
considerations here.
I have noted that a Product Recommendation document that was supplied by the broker to 
Mr A indicates that a payment of less than £250 would be received from the lender for 
introducing this mortgage. However, this appears to be in relation to the later repayment 
mortgage, not the interest only mortgages that I am considering here. There are no further 
details from the evidence provided of exactly what amount of commission was actually paid 
in this instance. NRAM says that it does not hold any further details because of the time that 
has elapsed since the sale. And this in my view is perhaps not unsurprising considering the 
sale was over 18 years ago. Given the lack of any evidence to the contrary, I have no reason 
to doubt what NRAM has said about the absence of any specific commission details.
I have considered what Mr A has said about NRAMs obligations under the Mortgage Code 
to indicate if the mortgage broker was going to receive a fee or payment for arranging the 
mortgages. But as referred to above, I havent seen any evidence to indicate a payment was 
actually made when arranging the interest only mortgages and therefore that NRAM was 
required to disclose anything about a potential commission payment. 
While I am aware that this will be disappointing to Mr A, from the information I have seen Im 
not persuaded NRAM failed to meet the requirements of the Mortgage Code. And in the 
absence of any specific details about any potential commission paid in relation to Mr As 
mortgage broker, I am unable to find that Mr A has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by 
NRAM.
My final decision
I again appreciate this will come as further disappointment to Mr A but for the reasons set 
out above, I do not uphold his complaint against NRAM Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Mark HollandsOmbudsman