DRN-2547527
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In 2008, Mr K visited a Barclays branch. He took out a mortgage and buildings insurance on 
two properties he owned and rented to tenants. Ill call them property 1 and property 2. At 
the time he lived in property 3 and shortly after he moved to property 4. He rented property 4 
from someone else, so he took out a contents insurance policy for it. The three policies 
automatically renewed each year. Mr K has lived at property 4 ever since.
Barclays arranged the policies in its role as an intermediary. A different company provided 
the insurance cover in its role as an insurer.
In 2019, the tenant left property 1 and Mr K discovered some damage. He made a claim for 
the cost of putting it right and for lost rental income. The insurer declined his claim. It said 
the buildings policy covering property 1 was a home policy and excluded damage caused 
by tenants. The policy was changed to provide landlord cover. But as that change was 
made after the damage had happened, the claim remained declined.
Mr K said Barclays was aware he rented property 1 out because it provided him with a buy 
to let mortgage, so he thought it should have arranged landlord cover for him in 2008. Mr K 
complained but Barclays said it wouldnt consider it because it had been made too late.
Unhappy with this, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. He explained that since 2008 
policy documents relating to property 2 had been sent to him at his home address, property 
4. They showed he had landlord cover. But he hadnt received policy documents relating to 
property 1. He later discovered those documents had been sent to property 1 each year  
rather than to property 4. So hed been unaware policy 1 was setup wrongly.
Because of this, Barclays agreed to investigate the complaint. It said no record of the branch 
discussion from 2008 was available. And its records showed the mortgage for property 1 
was residential  not buy to let. Because of this it didnt think it had acted unfairly when 
providing Mr K with a home insurance policy for property 1. And it didnt think it was 
responsible for meeting the cost of Mr Ks declined claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said there wasnt any evidence to show how 
the policy and its correspondence address were setup initially. But when Mr K hadnt 
received policy documents for property 1, she would have expected him to make enquiries 
about it. Because he hadnt done this, the documents continued to be sent to the wrong 
address and Mr K remained unaware of the policy cover in place. She didnt think Barclays 
should be held responsible for this.
Mr K disagreed and made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
It was a buy to let mortgage, so Barclays should have known he needed a landlord 
policy  and should have sent the policy documents to his home address
The policy had been arranged by a qualified mortgage advisor in Barclays branch 
who gave him advice
The policy had been setup incorrectly in 2008  and remained so ever since
He was unaware of this because the policy documents were sent to property 1 and 
his tenants hadnt forwarded them on
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
In summary, Mr K understood he had a buy to let mortgage and landlord cover for property 1 
and 2 and contents cover only for property 4. He thought all documentation would be sent to 
his home address, property 4. The policies for property 2 or 4 were setup this way and 
theres no dispute about those. So Ill focus on the policy for property 1.
Mr Ks complaint is only about the way the policy for property 1 was setup by Barclays  not 
how it sold the mortgage or other insurance policies he took out at that time. So I havent 
considered those things. And this complaint is about Barclays  so I cant consider whether 
the insurer acted fairly when it handled the claim.
After Barclays sold the policy in 2008, the insurer sent the policy documents to Mr K to 
confirm the details of the cover in place for property 1, including the terms and conditions. Mr 
K says he didnt receive those documents, so he wasnt aware of the cover he had. They 
were addressed to property 1, where his tenants lived, rather than property 4, where he 
lived. The insurer did this based on the information Barclays passed on after it arranged the 
policy with Mr K. Because of this Mr K thinks Barclays is responsible for him not receiving 
the documents  and not being aware of the cover he had.
Theres no evidence available from the discussion in branch in 2008 about how the policy 
was setup. So its unclear how the policy type and correspondence address were chosen. Mr 
K says Barclays ought to have been aware he needed landlord insurance as it was a buy to 
let mortgage. Barclays has said the mortgage for property 1 is residential. So there was no 
reason to think a landlord policy was needed.
Barclays has provided an internal record of the information the mortgage offer was based
on. This includes the loan type as residential. It notes Mr K has a buy to let property, but 
seemingly in reference to property 2. The mortgage offer sent to Mr K doesnt specify 
whether the mortgage is residential or buy to let. So its unclear whether Mr K was aware the 
mortgage was residential. But as I set out above, this complaint isnt about the mortgage 
itself, so I havent considered how the mortgage was sold.
Im satisfied the evidence shows the mortgage was setup as residential. Because of that, Im 
not persuaded a home insurance policy should have appeared unusual or incorrect to 
Barclays. And similarly, having the insured and correspondence address the same for a 
home policy wouldnt have indicated something was likely to be wrong.
Mr K says he received advice from Barclays, so they ought to have ensured the policy was 
suitable for his needs. Ive looked at the mortgage offer he was sent, as this is the only 
evidence to show how the buildings insurance policy was sold in 2008. It says the mortgage 
was recommended to him, which supports his recollection that he received advice. But Im 
not persuaded he received advice about buildings insurance. The offer says:Insurance you must take out through [Barclays]: You are not required to take out any 
insurance through [Barclays]
Please ensure that Buildings Insurance is in place and you have adequate cover.
Im satisfied Barclays made it clear Mr K must take out buildings insurance, but didnt offer 
any advice or make a recommendation about which policy to take.
Mr K told Barclays when he moved from property 3 to property 4. Barclays has a record of it 
in December 2008. It says it updated its own system to reflect the change. But it wouldnt 
usually check whether a consumer had taken out other products, such as insurance, and 
pass the new address information onto the providers of those other products. So it didnt 
pass on Mr Ks new address to the insurer. It points out the policy documents contain details 
about how to change details such as the address. The policy was sent by the insurer and it 
contains a number to call to make this kind of change, which goes directly to the insurer.
Barclays accepts Mr K may have thought that updating his address with Barclays would 
have led to his address being updated with the insurance company. But it says Mr K had a 
responsibility to make enquiries when he didnt receive any policy documents soon after 
taking it out  or at any renewal for many years after that.
Theres limited information available now about what happened in 2008. The only 
information Ive seen shows the mortgage was setup as residential. And the policy 
documents were consistent with this, noting the property wasnt going to be let out. However, 
Mr K has told us he rented the property out. And when he rented out property 2, he took out 
landlord cover for it. So I cant rule out the possibility that Mr K may have asked for landlord 
insurance for property 1. But even if he did, and Barclays made a mistake when it setup the 
policy in 2008, Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold it responsible for Mr Ks claim being 
declined in 2019.
Im satisfied it would have been clear to Mr K that he wasnt receiving any documents for 
property 1 for ten years  a significant period of time. Mr K says he received the policy 
documents for property 2 and property 4 each year from 2008 to 2018. I think they would 
have acted as a regular reminder that he wasnt receiving any information about property 1.
Mr K says his tenants didnt forward his mail to him, but thats not something I can hold 
against Barclays. He says he trusted the policy for property 1 had been setup to provide 
landlords cover and paid for the policy by direct debit to maintain it.
One of the main purposes of providing policy documents to a consumer at the outset and 
subsequent renewals is to give the consumer the opportunity to consider whether the policy 
is suitable for them  and make changes to the policy to ensure they have the cover they 
need. Mr K didnt take steps to ensure he received the documents, so he didnt take this 
opportunity. That meant he wasnt aware what type of policy it was, what it covered, or any 
of the key policy terms  or how any of these things may have changed over the ten years 
between taking out the policy and making the claim. Because of that, Barclays didnt make 
an offer towards the cost of Mr Ks claim declined. Im satisfied that was fair, given the 
circumstances.
Mr K has said he should be refunded the premiums he paid as he didnt have the cover he 
needed. His policy didnt cover malicious damage caused by tenants, which I understand is 
why the claim was declined. But it did cover loss or damage to the building caused by things 
such as fire, flood or subsidence, in common with most buildings insurance policies. I 
havent seen anything to suggest damage caused in these ways wouldnt have been 
covered by the insurer. So Mr K has had the benefit of a policy which has provided cover for 
his property. It wasnt as much cover as he thought he had, but if one of those things had happened, it appears he would have been able to make a claim. Because of that, Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund the cost of the insurance policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays confirmed it received my provisional decision and had no further points or 
information it would like me to consider.
Mr K didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has provided any further comments, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman