DRN-3713338
The complaint
Mr S complains to Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) about his whole of life Disability 
Income protection policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
In August 2021, Countrywide confirmed to Mr S that there would be no Disability 
Income Benefit payable in the event of a claim on his policy due to him receiving a 
continuing early retirement pension income.
It isnt in dispute that Countrywide werent made aware of the changes in Mr Ss 
income circumstances prior to him contacting them in 2021. 
Its recorded in the personal financial review, completed when the policy was taken 
out in 1996, that Mr S was aware accepting the offer of early retirement could affect 
any sickness provision he may wish to take.
I also acknowledge Countrywide included in their annual statements to Mr S, key 
questions to ask, such as Do I have too much or too little protection at the moment?.
However, from at least the point from which Mr S was in receipt of a pension income, 
ultimately Countrywide were receiving premiums from him for a policy they were 
never at risk of having to pay out a benefit on. And when an insurer is not at any risk 
of paying out a claim, I dont think its fair or reasonable for them to retain premiums, 
even though they werent made aware sooner. 
Because of this, and that the income protection element was the primary and only 
significant benefit of this policy, Countrywide should refund those premiums.
I dont require Countrywide to pay interest on the premiums prior to them establishing 
Mr S was over-insured in August 2021. It wouldnt be fair to ask them to pay interest 
when they were unaware of his change in circumstances. But they should add 
interest on any premiums paid after this date.
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Countrywide Assured Plc should:
calculate the date from when they wouldve paid Mr S zero benefit should an income 
protection claim have been made on the policy and refund all the premiums paid after 
that date,
add 8% simple interest to any premiums paid after August 2021 until the date of 
settlement,
and pay Mr S the surrender value of the policy as at the date they calculate hed 
have received zero benefit.
Countrywide should deduct any amount received by Mr S upon him surrendering the 
policy from the above amount due.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman