The complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) caused damage to his property when 
repairing his boiler.
What happened
In late March 2019, Mr S made a claim under his home emergency policy with IPA due to a 
loss of heating and hot water at his property. 
An engineer attended and inspected Mr Ss boiler and identified the problem and solution. 
But they concluded that Mr Ss boiler output meant it was a commercial boiler, and so 
repairs to it werent covered under the policy terms. 
A few days later IPA said this was an error, because the output of Mr Ss boiler didnt in fact 
put it in the bracket of a commercial boiler. So it said the repair was covered under Mr Ss 
policy. The necessary parts were then ordered, and the repair took place in early April.
On the back of the repair Mr S contacted IPA to make a complaint. He said the engineer had 
torn apart a panel that covered several pipes that connected to the boiler. And he said this 
couldve easily been avoided if the engineer had instead removed the relevant screws from 
the side panel to gain access. Instead he felt theyd caused more damage and that that IPA 
should either rectify it or cover the costs for him to do so. 
IPA pointed to an exclusion in Mr Ss policy which says it wont be responsible for any 
damage that occurs in gaining access to his boiler. It went on to say that its engineer had 
received verbal consent from a family member at the property to complete the repair. And 
that it was satisfied theyd left the area in a good condition to ensure the pipework was 
covered as much as possible. 
IPA was satisfied from the engineers report that the side panel wouldnt have given them 
enough access to make the repair. So it didnt uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint. But it did 
offer him £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused with regard to the error it made in 
initially saying he had a commercial boiler. 
Mr S was unhappy with IPAs response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter and was persuaded that the engineers report supported 
the point that access couldnt be obtained the way Mr S wouldve liked. And she wasnt 
satisfied she had enough supporting evidence to the contrary to reasonably challenge this. 
So she didnt uphold the complaint.
But Mr S was still unhappy. He felt the investigator hadnt properly considered the 
photographic evidence hed sent in. He also didnt think he should have to pay for a report to 
challenge IPAs workmanship. So as a resolution wasnt reached, the case has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
DRN-1170329What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has a home emergency policy, which is defined in the policy wording as an event that 
happens suddenly and unexpectedly and needs immediate action to a) prevent damage or 
further damage to your home and/or b) make your home safe, secure and habitable.
Mr S had a loss of heating and hot water in his property. IPA attended the property, and 
while it initially repudiated the claim, this was soon rectified. And as far as Im aware, it 
carried out a repair to Mr Ss boiler that restored the heating and hot water in his property. 
Mr S doesnt dispute the effectiveness of the repair, but rather the damage he says IPA 
caused when completing it. He says if IPA had used the correct side panel to access the 
pipework, he wouldnt be left with the damage he now has.
IPA says its engineer tried to gain access from the side panel initially, but because of the 
way the panel casing had been installed, it didnt allow them access to the top of the pipes 
which was required to complete the repair. The images Ive seen support the engineers 
version of events, as theres a photo from IPA where the side panel has been removed and 
the top panel around the pipes is still intact at that stage. 
IPA says that when it became apparent the repair couldnt be completed via the side panel, it 
gained verbal consent from the family member at Mr Ss home before doing anything further. 
This seems like a reasonable step to me.
From what Ive seen in this case, Im satisfied the engineer attempted the most appropriate 
entry point in the first instance. And Im persuaded that they needed to remove the top panel 
to complete an effective repair under Mr Ss policy, because the images seem to support the 
point that they attempted to complete the repair by removing the side panel first of all.
So on balance, I think its more likely than not, that if itd been possible to complete the repair 
via Mr Ss preferred entry point, the engineer wouldve done just that. Rather than arguably 
giving themselves more work to remove further panels if they werent necessary. So I dont 
think theres been a failing by IPA in how it accessed Mr Ss boiler to complete the repair.
But Mr S also complains about the way the area has been left as a result of the top panel 
being removed. IPA says it left the area in as reasonable a state as was possible. So Ive 
looked at what the policy terms say about IPAs responsibility to Mr S when damage is 
caused in order to gain access, or to complete a repair.
Page 21 of Mr Ss policy document sets out the general exclusions that apply to his policy, 
and on the list of exclusions is the following information:
The Insurer will not cover
9. Any costs we would incur gaining access to your system or appliance in order to make a 
repair.
10. Any costs for gaining access to an appliance or system where the system is inaccessible 
due to a design fault.
11. Any damage incurred in gaining access to your appliance, boiler or main heating system, 
we will not cover any associated making good or redecoration.I understand why Mr S is unhappy with how the area has been left. He wasnt expecting the 
damage because he thought the engineer could use the side panel. And the area isnt as 
neat as what it was before. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied the access made was necessary to 
complete the repair. And under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, he isnt covered for 
any damage caused as result of this. So I cant reasonably hold IPA responsible for covering 
the rectification costs Mr S has asked for in this case.
Im aware there wouldve been a degree of trouble and upset for Mr S because of IPAs 
initial error regarding the commercial boiler. From what Ive seen, IPA rectified this mistake 
as soon as it became aware of it. And its offered Mr S £50 compensation to recognise the 
upset this caused him. I think this is fair in the circumstances. So it follows I wont be asking 
IPA to do anything more in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount of £50 that Inter Partner Assistance SA has already 
offered to Mr S is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused in this case. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay this to Mr S if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman