DRN-2891450
The complaint
Mr M complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy incorrectly and without letting him know. As a result, hes been 
prosecuted for driving his car without insurance and wasnt covered for an accident he was 
involved in. Mr Ms also said the cost of his insurance has increased significantly. 
Markerstudy says the decision to cancel the policy was made by the business that sold it. 
But it seems this was on Markerstudys behalf so the complaints been set up against it. Any 
reference to Markerstudy includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr M says he already had a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy and at renewal in 
March 2020, he applied for a new one online. Around 26 March 2020 Mr M spoke to 
Markerstudy over the phone. During the call, the agent questioned whether some of the 
details hed given were accurate  in particular, whether he had a driveway. By the end of 
the call, the agent realised she was looking at the wrong property online which didnt have a 
driveway and said shed leave the details as they were, as long as Mr M could provide proof.   
On 26 March 2020, Markerstudy uploaded documents to its customer portal. This included a 
letter explaining further information was needed by 9 April 2020. As no information was 
received, it sent a notice to Mr Ms email address on 24 April 2020 saying the policy would 
be cancelled on 1 May 2020. The same day, an agent spoke to him over the phone and sent 
him an email confirming what was needed. 
Mr M sent the information on 1 May 2020 at around 9pm. Markerstudy has said it emailed 
him the same day advising the policy had been cancelled from 11:59pm that day. The 
following day, on seeing Mr M had sent in further information, Markerstudy emailed him to 
advise the policy had already been cancelled and to get in touch if he still needed it. It 
refunded £92.74 worth of premiums to Mr M around June 2020. 
Mr M says he didnt receive the cancellation notice or the emails on 1 and 2 May 2020. So 
he continued to drive his car and only discovered he didnt have insurance when he tried to 
make a claim in July 2020. He says as a result of not being insured, hes had to cover the 
cost of damage to the third-party car; hes lost his own car and had to buy a new one; and 
hes received points on his licence and a fine in court for driving without insurance. 
Markerstudy didnt accept Mr Ms complaint. It was satisfied it had given him enough notice 
and the documents were received too late as it was out of hours. As the complaint wasnt 
resolved Mr M asked us to look into it. Our investigator thought it should be upheld. In 
absence of any information, she assumed the information sent on 1 May 2020 was enough 
to prevent the cancellation. She thought Markerstudy hadnt made the deadline clear during 
the call and had caused confusion. And she said as the information had been received 
before the cancellation, Markerstudy shouldve called Mr M or just reinstated the policy. 
Markerstudy didnt agree with our investigators assessment as it felt it had made Mr M 
reasonably aware of the cancellation and hed been given enough time. It also didnt think it 
had a responsibility to call him. And it said it was arguable Mr M had provided the 
documentation after the cancellation. So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
I contacted both parties to this complaint in August 2021. I explained I provisionally thought 
the complaint should be upheld but Markerstudy should put things right in a way that was 
slightly different from what our investigator had said  primarily to account for the impact 
Mr Ms conviction for driving without insurance will have on his future insurance premiums. I 
asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Mr M didnt make any further comments. Markerstudy didnt make any comments about how 
I thought should be put right. And it provided much of the same details it had given us 
already. But the new points it made in summary were:
The letter sent on 24 April 2021 was the cancellation notice. And it didnt give Mr M the 
option to provide the required information to stop his policy being cancelled. 
Whilst the cancellation letter sent on 1 May 2021 said the policy would be cancelled that 
day, the policy had already been cancelled as per the notice on 24 April 2021. 
Mr M shouldve contacted Markerstudy or his broker to confirm the policy was still in 
place instead of assuming it was. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought about Markerstudys response to my provisional findings. And Ive decided 
to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. 
I accept Markerstudy uploaded a letter to the portal when Mr M first took out the policy 
outlining what it needed. And it sent him a notice of cancellation for 1 May 2020 a few weeks 
later. But during the call on 24 April 2020, Mr M made the agent aware he hadnt seen those 
letters. So I think she couldve explained things again. 
I dont think the agent made it clear during the call that Mr Ms policy would be cancelled on 
1 May 2020 if he didnt provide the outstanding information. And Im satisfied if Mr M couldnt 
prevent the cancellation by providing the information requested, the agent wouldnt have 
explained what information was outstanding or sent him a chaser email with the details. I 
note at the beginning of the call, the agent said there was a notice of cancellation on the 
policy for six days from that day. But Im not satisfied she said this clearly  and she didnt 
explain what it meant. 
I think Markerstudy had a few opportunities during the call to highlight the deadline and the 
urgency of the situation to Mr M  particularly as hed indicated he didnt know there was a 
time limit. For example, the agent couldve explained more when Mr M asked if he was still 
insured and when he said hed try to get the information to Markerstudy the next day. 
Instead, I think its likely the agent mightve confused him by mentioning he had 30 days 
from the start date and advising him to get in touch the following week (by which point it 
mightve been too late) if he had any problems. I note the agent sent Mr M a chaser email outlining the outstanding information. But theres 
nothing in the email showing the date Mr M needed to send it in by. So overall I think 
Markerstudy couldve done more to make him aware of when the policy would be cancelled, 
knowing, from what he said during the call that he wasnt already. 
Mr M sent the outstanding information to Markerstudy on 1 May 2020 at around 9pm which 
is after Markerstudys office opening hours. But Ive not seen anything in this case to suggest 
he was told he needed to send the documentation in by a particular time on that day and Im 
satisfied he did send it before his policy was cancelled as set out in the cancellation email. 
I think it shouldve been clear to Markerstudy on 2 May 2020 that Mr M still wanted the policy 
as hed sent in the information the day before. So Im not persuaded it was reasonable to 
ask him to get in touch to confirm. I appreciate Markerstudy has said its only required to 
write to Mr M. But considering the serious impact the policy being cancelled could have on 
him and that it had problems contacting him other than by phone before, I think it's 
reasonable to expect it wouldve called to notify him in this case. I also note the agent Mr M 
spoke to asked him to confirm the best phone number to call if there were any problems. So 
I think he might reasonably have expected a call if his documentation hadnt been accepted. 
Overall, I dont think Markerstudy has treated Mr M fairly in this case. I think it couldve made 
the deadline clearer when he said he wasnt aware. And it cancelled his policy after he sent 
the information in on time. So I think it needs to put him in the position he wouldve been in if 
things hadnt gone wrong. 
Putting things right
Mr M has explained hes suffered significant financial losses due to whats happened. Hes 
also had to attend court unrepresented; struggled to buy a new car and deal with a claim by 
the third-party from the accident he had. I think all of this wouldve caused him significant 
distress and worry and is a result of Markerstudys actions. So to put things right, I think 
Markerstudy should:
Remove the insurance cancellation marker from any internal and external databases. 
Mr M has treated his car as a total loss. So Markerstudy should assess the claim as if he 
still had cover at the time of the accident in July 2020 and pay him the market value of 
his car in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Reimburse Mr M the amount of the court fine hes already paid if hes unable to reclaim 
what hes already paid to the court. Mr M needs to provide sufficient evidence to 
Markerstudy of what the fine was, that hes paid it and that he cant reclaim it.
Reimburse the impound fees Mr M had to pay for his car upon receipt of sufficient 
evidence from him.
Pay 8% simple interest on everything above from the date Mr M made the payments until 
the date the claim is settled. Markerstudy should pay 8% simple interest on the claim 
amount from the date of the accident to when the claim is settled.*
Send Mr M a letter explaining whats happened for him to submit to court and the 
insurance providers hes had since July 2020 so that he can ask for his insurance 
premiums to be recalculated and his points removed. 
Pay Mr M £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by whats happened.Markerstudy can deduct the refund its already given Mr M of £92.74 from the total 
amount paid to him.
Mr M has been convicted for driving without insurance and its likely hell need to disclose 
this to future insurers for around five years. So, unless he can get the conviction removed, I 
think his future insurance policies will be more expensive due to this. 
I understand Mr M hasnt disclosed his conviction to his current insurer yet as he hadnt been 
convicted when he took the insurance out. So to make up for the likely impact this will have 
on his future premiums, I think Markerstudy should work out what the increase in Mr Ms 
premium wouldve been if hed renewed his insurance policy with Markerstudy. Then it 
should multiply that amount by five (which is the number of years hed likely have to disclose 
it for); and pay him half that amount to reflect the decreasing impact the conviction will have 
on his premium each year. 
*If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman