DRN-3774972
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays Bank) will not refund him money he 
says he lost as a result of falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr A says he has fallen victim to an investment scam resulting in him losing his 
money.  Mr A made his payments relating to the scam by way of transfers and debit card.  
The complaint in hand is concerned with the debit card payment Mr A made in March 2021 
for £330, which was to a cryptocurrency exchange.
Mr A raised this matter with Barclays Bank asking it to reimburse him the money he says he 
lost.  As Barclays Bank did not do this, Mr T raised a complaint which he referred to our 
Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr A did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In summary, I am not persuaded that Barclays Bank should refund Mr A the transaction in 
question for the following reasons:
I do not find that the transaction was so unusual that Barclays Bank should have 
stopped it and spoken to Mr A before releasing the payment.  I say this because:
oThe transaction  relative to the activity on Mr As account  was not 
significantly high enough to trigger Barclays Banks systems.
oThe transaction did not follow an out of character pattern.
oThe transaction was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange.
I can see that Barclays Bank raised a chargeback on behalf of Mr A in this matter 
which was challenged.  I am satisfied that Barclays Bank acted fairly by not 
continuing with the chargeback process.  I say this because the cryptocurrency 
exchange Mr A paid, carried out their services as intended (converting his payment 
into crypto).  Therefore, Mr A had no reasonable prospect of success under the 
chargeback scheme against the cryptocurrency exchange.  Further, Barclays Bank 
would not have been able to raise a chargeback against the merchant in this case, as 
Mr A did not pay them directly.
Taking all the above factors together, I am of the view that Barclays Bank has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman