DRN-3741875
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont refund money he 
says he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr H and his wife were 
introduced to an investment scheme by friends and family. Relevant to this complaint are 
five payments totalling £15,000, made between October 2015 and August 2016 from Mr Hs 
M&S account towards what he believed was a genuine horse racing syndicate. Mr H says in 
February 2019 he realised hed fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr H complained to M&S in April 2022 and asked that it refund his loss. M&S didnt agree. It 
said that it was not at fault and the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code) didnt come into effect until 28 May 2019, and only covered 
payments on or after this date. It did, however, acknowledge that the customer service it had 
provided whilst handling his complaint was not up to standard. By way of apology, it paid 
Mr H a total sum of £150.   
Mr H remained unhappy, so the matter was considered by our service. Our Investigator 
explained that due to the time limits which apply to our service we can only investigate M&S 
actions in relation to two of the five payments  those being a £5,000 transfer in July 2016 
and another £5,000 transfer in August 2016. Both M&S and Mr H accept this. 
For what we can consider our Investigator concluded that there wasnt a basis upon which 
she could fairly ask M&S to refund Mr Hs loss. Mr H disagrees, he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr H and I appreciate he wants to do all that he can 
to try and recover the money hes lost. Understandably he also has many questions about 
how a scam of this magnitude was able to be conducted under the radar of banks without 
any questions being asked or due diligence checks being carried out on the beneficiary 
accounts. But I want to start by being clear that my role here is limited to considering Mr Hs 
complaint against M&S (his bank) and its actions in processing the payments hed asked it to 
make to the beneficiary. The responsibility of managing the beneficiarys accounts rests with 
their bank  and not M&S. And in these circumstances, I could only direct M&S to refund 
Mr Hs loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent that loss or did something wrong 
where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund. I cant fairly direct M&S to provide a 
refund on the basis that Mr H acted in good faith when making the payments; has been the 
victim of a scam; and/or because other financial firms have chosen to refund their customers 
under similar conditions.
Firstly, the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) which are the relevant regulations in 
place here, alongside M&S own terms and conditions, indicate that it should execute 
authorised payment instructions from its customers without undue delay. And as a starting 
point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments sits with the payer, even 
where it has been argued (or later discovered as is the case here) that the payments have 
been made as part of a scam. But it is also understood that banks, such as M&S have duties 
to protect their customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud so far as is 
reasonably possible. 
With that in mind Ive considered whether M&S ought to have done more before processing 
the payments. And I broadly agree with our Investigator that whilst the payments of £5,000 in 
July and August 2016 were larger than Mr Hs general spend, they would not have appeared 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious to M&S such that it ought to have intervened. And from 
what Ive seen as there wasnt any interaction between Mr H and M&S at the time the 
payments were made, it also didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to ask 
questions and provide general warnings or information about common scams during the 
payment journey (which is all I could expect of it in such circumstances). 
But even if I were wrong about any of this, and M&S shouldve intervened, or done more if 
there was interaction, I dont think it wouldve resulted in a prevention of Mr Hs loss. I say 
this for the following reasons:  
- The scheme had been recommended by friends and family  who were already 
members that were reporting and withdrawing healthy returns on their original 
investments.
- At the time of investment, the syndicate had been running for a few years.
- The founder of the scheme was contactable. He would arrange to meet with the 
members. And was sending regular updates on the performance of the investment.
- Mr H was reassured by the returns hed received from his initial investment.
- By his own admission Mr H says the scam was believable and extremely 
sophisticated. 
- There was no adverse information available at the time. So even if Mr H had carried 
out any further research at this point, I dont think he wouldve discovered anything 
that wouldve prompted him to do anything different.
So, on balance, in these circumstances I think these payments would have gone through as 
instructed and I dont think there would have been any reasonable basis upon which to 
expect M&S to have gone against the instruction Mr H gave them. Im also satisfied given 
the length of time which had passed (and the events which have taken place) between the 
payments being made and Mr H raising this with M&S that there wasnt anything more it 
couldve done to assist in the recovery of the funds. I appreciate Mr H has been misinformed about the applicability of the CRM code. But to 
clarify M&S are a signatory of the CRM code  which is likely the reason why they 
commented on this in their complaint response. The CRM code is a voluntary code that 
requires firms who are a signatory of it to reimburse customers whove been the victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. One of 
those is that the disputed payments (not when the victim became aware or reported the 
matter) needs to have been made on or after 28 May 2019. This is set out at section DS2(2), 
where it says: This Code does not apply to  (c) any payments completed before the 
coming into force of this Code. As the disputed payments here were made before the CRM 
code came into effect, they are not covered. So, I cant say that M&S response that the 
CRM code does not apply in these circumstances is unreasonable or unfair. 
Mr H has made some comments about being given refunds in the past (where payments 
have been made by card). Payments made by debit or credit card have certain safeguards in 
the event of a problem. But payments made by transferring money directly from the payers 
account to the recipients bank account, do not carry the same safeguards. As the payments 
in dispute here were not card payments those safeguards are not a relevant consideration.  
I agree with Mr H there were delays in responding to his complaint and inaccuracies in the 
response given. But I think the £150 already paid by M&S is a fair way to address this. So, I 
wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman