DRN-2511917
The complaint
Miss M says Fortrade Limited (FL) is responsible for around £80,000 of losses incurred in 
her Contract for Differences (CFD) trading account. She says FLs poor, unsolicited and 
pressurising trading advice misled her trading decisions and caused the trading losses. She 
also refers to margin close-outs of some of her trades which contributed to her losses.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She concluded it should be upheld, 
because the account was inappropriate for Miss M, because FL should never have opened it 
and because it knew enough at the outset (on 6 February 2019) to have closed the account 
for this reason  so Miss M should be compensated for all losses incurred thereafter. The 
investigators main observations were as follows:
FL did no wrong in applying margin close-outs to Miss Ms trades where the margin 
requirement in her account fell below 50%. By doing so, FL was compliant with 
relevant margin close-out provisions in the regulations introduced by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in 2018. Due to her inexperience in 
leveraged trading Miss M did not qualify for a professional account with a lower 
account margin requirement.
Miss Ms initial objective had been to buy shares in a particular pharmaceutical 
company, she shared this with FL at the outset and FL did not correct her 
misunderstanding that she could do so with a CFD account. Telephone recording 
evidence shows this, shows that she did not understand how the CFD trading 
account worked and shows that FL had to explain, to her, how the account worked 
multiple times (including and after the initial call on 6 February 2019).
Telephone recording evidence also shows that Miss M relied heavily on trading 
information given to her by FL and that, despite the execution only service basis for 
her account, some of FLs contacts in this respect might be considered as 
constituting advice.
FL was aware from the outset that Miss M had no prior trading experience, did not 
have the necessary understanding of CFDs and had approached the account with 
the plan to buy actual shares (not to trade CFDs). In this context, FL should not have 
granted her the account.
FL disputes the complaint and the investigators views. In the main, its position is that:
It did not give advice to Miss M. The terms of service for the account expressly 
confirmed that it was based on an execution only service. Telephone recording 
evidence shows that it made clear to her that it could not give her trading advice 
because that was outside the execution only account service. Same evidence shows 
that it stressed to her that she should understand the educational/learning material 
that was made available to her, that she should fully understand the risks of 
leveraged trading, that she should understand leveraged trading and that she should 
use the available DEMO account  all before she started real trading in the account. 
Evidence of email correspondence that followed up on what she was told over the 
telephone also shows that risk warnings were given to her  as were prominent on its 
website, on its marketing materials, on its analysis and on its educational materials.
On 18 February 2019 its compliance department sent Miss M an email which 
expressly referred to CFD trading, to the complexities and risks inherent in such 
trading, to notice about 84% of its clients making losses in such trading and to notice 
that she should consider whether (or not) she understands CFD trading and can 
afford to lose her capital in such trading.
Account activity evidence shows that Miss M was very active in her trading from the 
outset, shows that she chose to ignore reminders she was given to use stop loss 
settings to minimise her exposures to risk and shows that, in the main, the losses she 
accumulated resulted from her being reckless in her CFD and Forex trading (trading 
heavily and unduly aggressively without stop loss settings).
In terms of assessing appropriateness, Miss M did not have a vulnerable profile; she 
stated, in her application, an annual income between £50,000 and £100,000 and she 
also stated that her objective for the account was speculation; the account was 
assessed as inappropriate for her and she was given express warning about that; 
she chose to proceed with the account despite the warning and the regulators rules 
allowed FL to do the same; if she did not open the FL account she would have 
opened a comparable account elsewhere; FL behaved with due skill, care and 
diligence at all relevant times; there is nothing in the regulators rules for 
appropriateness that required FL to close her account after her trading had begun; 
there is also nothing in the rules that says it had to keep appropriateness under 
review and two previous decisions from this service upheld a firms discretion to 
proceed with an inappropriate account for a client (after issuing a warning) and 
confirmed that a firm is not required to monitor appropriateness after the initial 
assessment.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of matters have been addressed in this complaint  including appropriateness of 
the CFD account for Miss M, the specifics of her trading within the account, the debate over 
whether (or not) FL advised her trading, reference to the particular pharmaceutical stock she 
expressed interest in at the outset, how her losses accumulated and the margin close-outs. 
I have considered all the relevant matters. I conclude that Miss Ms complaint is upheld 
because the account was inappropriate for her and FL should not have granted it to her. I 
also conclude that, given this finding, all the other matters become arguably redundant 
because no activity would have taken place in the account if it was never granted, or little or 
no such activity would have taken placed if it was closed (because of inappropriateness) 
shortly after being opened. I have noted FLs point about closing the account and I address 
this further below. The issue to determine in terms of the inappropriateness of Miss Ms account is very limited. 
FL does not dispute that the account was inappropriate for her. That was the conclusion of 
its appropriateness assessment and the notice letter of 18 February 2019 that it has referred 
to is the same letter in which she was informed about this assessment outcome and was 
given the risk notices that FL has highlighted. The copy of the letter that has been shared 
with this service shows Miss Ms signature beneath an undertaking that says she understood 
the notices but wished to proceed with the account regardless. Overall, it appears safe to 
conclude that both parties were aware of the inappropriateness of the account, of the 
reasons why and of their mutual readiness to proceed with the account regardless.
Reference has been made to an online notice Miss M appears to have been given in the 
course of her online account application process. I have considered this notice and it is a 
warning about the high risks in CFDs. It does not constitute an inappropriateness warning as 
there is no mention of an inappropriateness assessment outcome within its contents. The 
notice letter of 18 February 2019 appears to be the first formal inappropriateness notice 
given to Miss M.
The issue in dispute is not about the inappropriateness of the account. It is about FLs 
decision to exercise its discretion to grant Miss M the account despite assessing and 
knowing that it was probably inappropriate for her.
I have considered the two previous decisions from this service that FL has referred to. I 
issued both of those decisions and I have re-familiarised myself with their contents. It is 
worth noting that each case within this service is addressed on its individual merits so 
previous decisions are not automatically as binding in the manner that FL might think. 
However, I also appreciate that it is important to maintain reasonable consistency  where 
relevant and applicable  in our decisions. 
If, despite an inappropriateness warning, a retail applicant or client (like Miss M was) wishes 
to proceed with the financial service or product that has been sought, the regulators rules 
say a firm has discretion to grant the inappropriate service or product to the applicant/client 
 having regard to the circumstances. In one of the decisions that FL has referred to I 
said:
[The complainant] could say that, despite his decision to go against the inappropriateness 
warning, it was irresponsible for [the firm] to grant him the account. I disagree. As stated 
above, it had discretion to do so and what I have summarised above is from relevant 
regulations (the rules at COBS 10A, and guidance on warnings at COBS 10A.3.3 G, of the 
regulators Handbook). In doing so, it should have given regard to the circumstances of the 
application. I consider that it did this and I accept its explanation in this respect. After giving 
its warning to him, and in the absence of red flag indicators (or causes for concern) arising 
from the application  I am not persuaded that there was anything in the circumstances of 
his application that should have stopped [the firm] from granting him the account. 
There is no ongoing responsibility upon a firm to continue reviewing appropriateness after 
the initial assessment. The regulators rule at COBS 10.4.2 R says a firm  is not required 
to make a new assessment [of appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate 
transaction  by its client(s), and that a firm complies with the rules for assessing 
appropriateness  provided that it makes the necessary appropriateness assessment 
before beginning that service.
I agree with FLs argument that it was not required to keep appropriateness under review 
and, similar to what I said in the quote above, I accept that it could rely upon the initial 
inappropriateness assessment it conducted for Miss M. An important point to note is that she appears to have been granted the account between 5 
and 6 February 2019 (during which a number of onboarding related telephone calls took 
place between her and FL and during which she appears to have deposited capital into the 
account). Trading history evidence for her account shows that she was allowed to start 
trading on 6 February 2019. As mentioned earlier, the assessment outcome notice was sent 
to her on 18 February 2019. It follows that FLs initial assessment of appropriateness 
happened and continued between both dates, so I regard the entire period between both 
dates as the period of initial assessment. 
The above finding is relevant to considering whether (or not) FL fairly and reasonably 
exercised its discretion to grant Miss M the inappropriate account.  It is also the basis upon 
which it becomes a matter of fact that FL would have had to close the account  because it 
had already been opened  if its assessment outcome letter of 18 February conveyed a 
different decision (that is, a decision not to exercise its discretion and not to grant her the 
account). 
In terms of exercising the discretion that FL had, guidance from the regulator  as mentioned 
in the above quote  says it would have been expected to take into account relevant 
circumstances. It should not be forgotten that the context was one in which FL was 
considering allowing Miss M to have a CFD trading account that it knew and declared was 
probably inappropriate for her. As I addressed in the decision quoted above,  red flag 
indicators (or causes for concern)  are important to the consideration of relevant 
circumstances. Whilst in that decision I found none, in Miss Ms case I consider that the 
following were or should have been red flag indicators and/or causes for concern for FL:
Telephone recording evidence from between 5 and 6 February 2019  which include 
the initial conversations between the parties  shows that Miss Ms intention was to 
purchase the specific pharmaceutical shares that she sought to buy. She sought 
share dealing  not CFD trading. It is quite evident that she was not aware she was 
applying for or had applied for an account in which this was not achievable  that is, 
share dealing not achievable with CFDs. It is notable that, like the investigator 
highlighted, the FL officials she spoke to said nothing during the calls to correct her 
misunderstanding. One official did refer her to the idea of trading on price 
differences, to the ability to trade shorts (which the official said could not be done 
with a conventional account) and to how the service in the account was a better way 
of trading. FL could argue that this was sufficient reference to the distinction between 
share dealing and CFD trading. However, set in the context of conversations in which 
Miss M was never told her share dealing expectation was misplaced in her 
application for the CFD account and in the context of the above being mentioned by 
the official to illustrate how trading profit was made, I am not satisfied that it was FLs 
intention at the time to draw such a distinction and I am not satisfied that Miss M 
perceived or understood such a distinction during the calls. 
Same evidence shows that FL was fully aware that Miss M was a novice in terms of 
trading financial instruments/products. Her sole experience reference appears to 
have been to shares allocated by a former employer as part of her employment, but 
no trading experience and especially no leveraged trading knowledge or experience 
to refer to. Documentary evidence of her application shows that she said None in 
responses to questions about CFD trading experience and Other online trading 
experience; and said I have never traded online before in response to questions 
about trading frequency. She also confirmed having no trading experience during the 
telephone calls and, notably, the FL officials she spoke to acknowledged and 
repeated this back to her during the course of their conversations.
During an education related telephone call on 7 February 2019 the FL official     Miss M spoke to made further reference to the pharmaceutical stock she was 
interested in. Other telephone recording evidence shows that FL did this repeatedly 
during calls between 5 and 7 February, which, I consider, would have encouraged 
her expectation that the shares could be bought through the FL account  and which, 
I consider, would have meant FL was reasonably aware that her expectation 
remained misplaced. Furthermore, in a particular exchange during the call on 7 
February the FL official sounds like she said the following   you would like to be 
an investor not a speculator doing daily trading  and in response, Miss M said 
yes. Both then proceeded to agree that Miss M was open to trying out some trading 
and seeing how it goes. I consider that this provides some additional strength to the 
findings that Miss M did not understand the true nature of the account at the outset 
and that FL did not correct her misunderstanding. At best, during this call she 
understood that she could use the account to trade and invest in shares and that she 
could do so on a leveraged basis  as the official also referred to leveraged trading  
but the difference between CFDs and share dealing and limitation of the account to 
CFD (and Forex) trading was not clarified to her.
The above all happened within circumstances that FL should have taken into consideration 
in terms of exercising (or not exercising) its discretion and they all happened within its 
appropriateness assessment period  that is, before 18 February 2019. FL was faced with 
the decision on whether (or not) to allow Miss M to have a high risk CFD trading account 
which it knew was probably inappropriate for her, which it knew (or ought reasonably to have 
known) was not the share dealing account she was looking for and which it knew (or ought 
reasonably to have known) she was misguided about (and, at the outset, was ignorant 
about). It also knew she was a novice to trading and leveraged trading. It also would have 
known that it had not corrected her misunderstandings during the initial calls. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that these were circumstances in which it was fair or reasonable 
for FL to apply its discretion to grant the account. In a nutshell, it should have identified at 
the outset that Miss M was, arguably unknowingly, seeking the wrong sort of account for 
what she wanted (that is, share dealing). I do not suggest that she did not thereafter 
understanding that it was a CFD account. It is clear that she did, given her active trading 
during the lifetime of the account. However, as I said above the key issue to determine is 
whether (or not) the account should have been granted to her at the outset  and, if not, all 
subsequent events become arguably irrelevant. I do not consider that the account should 
have been granted to Miss M at the outset and I reach this conclusion for the reasons 
treated above. 
Putting things right
It is not clear why FLs appropriateness assessment process was not formally completed 
until the outcome letter of 18 February 2019 and it is also not clear why it allowed Miss M to 
trade (from 6 February 2019) prior to completion of the assessment process. I consider that 
it would have been fair and reasonable for the process to formally conclude before she was 
allowed to trade. The opposite was unreasonable. It had the effect of exposing her to trading 
risks in the account before she received the formal inappropriateness warning. 
On this basis and because, overall, the account should not have been granted to her I 
consider that she should be compensated for all losses of capital incurred between 6 and 18 
February 2019.
As the account should not have been granted to Miss M, all her capital losses from 18 
February 2019 until her trading ceased should also be returned to her by way of compensation.
I order FL to compensate Miss M for her total losses of capital as set out above. FL must 
also pay Miss M interest, on the total compensation due to her, at the rate of 8% simple per 
year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if FL does not pay the total 
compensation due within 28 days of being informed of her acceptance of this decision. This 
provision is to compensate Miss M if redress is unduly delayed by FL.
Compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I order Fortrade Limited to 
pay her compensation as set out above and to provide her with a calculation of the 
compensation payment in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman