DRN-2473131
The complaint
Ms C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim for Legal Expenses 
Insurance (LEI). 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Ms C has insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by Aviva. Ms C made a 
claim to Aviva for LEI to assist her in relation to an ongoing dispute over land involving 
trespass and harassment by some of her neighbours. She said from the start that shed like 
her own solicitor D to represent her. 
Aviva explained there is only cover for a legal claim which has reasonable prospects of 
success  so an assessment of her claim needed to take place before cover could be 
confirmed. Aviva said that this could be completed by D (and sent them their terms of 
appointment), but they would only pay what it would cost them for a panel solicitor to make 
an assessment. They also gave Ms C the option to pay the difference privately if she wished 
to. 
As agreement couldnt be found as to the hourly rate for D to assess the claim, Aviva asked 
a panel solicitor to make an assessment. The assessment concluded that on the information 
they held, there werent reasonable prospects of success. As such, Aviva declined the claim 
on that basis but said if Ms C provided further information it would be considered. 
Ms C complained. She wasnt happy that Aviva wouldnt pay for her solicitor to make an 
assessment. She also thought the legal opinion was wrong. She was also unhappy with the 
service that Aviva provided. Aviva responded to the complaint but didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Overall, she thought Aviva had acted 
fairly. Ms C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
I note that things have moved on significantly since our investigator gave her opinion on this 
complaint. In this complaint I can only comment on the decisions Aviva made at the time. But 
I acknowledge that since the circumstances described above, Ms C has provided further 
information and as a result of this Aviva have now accepted part of the claim as having the 
required prospects of success. Further complaints have since been raised and are being 
considered separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Ms C, so Ill explain why. 
Ms Cs policy requires that any claim has reasonable prospects of success. The 
requirement for this is something common to nearly all LEI policies and isnt something I 
consider to be unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt 
generally continue legal action if they were unlikely to achieve a positive outcome  so I 
dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Aviva themselves arent legal experts. So, I think it is fair for them to rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinions when making a decision about a claim. Unless the legal opinion involved is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to realise. Beyond this Ms Cs policy 
says:
Freedom to choose your lawyer:
i) If court proceedings are issued, there is a conflict of interest or if we consider the 
claim to be complex and requiring a specialist lawyer, you are free to choose your 
own lawyer by sending us their name and address
ii) We will appoint that lawyer subject to their acceptance of our standard terms of 
appointment which are available on request
iii) Subject to the terms and conditions of this policy we will pay their costs and 
expenses up to the maximum shown on your schedule.
I appreciate Ms C had already had some contact with D and had a preference to use them. 
But I dont think Aviva were being unreasonable when concluding that her intended legal 
action hadnt yet reached the point at which she was entitled to choose her own lawyer. And 
Im likewise not persuaded that Avivas decision was unfair in relation to there not being a 
conflict of interest or anything so complex about the case that meant a panel solicitor 
couldnt make the initial assessment. The policy also sets out that this assessment will be 
done by a panel solicitor. I think Aviva treated Ms C fairly by offering to pay D what it would 
have cost them for an assessment if she would make up the difference or to use D if they 
would agree to the terms of appointment. 
When there was a dispute about the hourly rate, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva 
to ask a panel solicitor to assess the prospects. The policy doesnt provide cover until 
prospects are confirmed  and so that seems to have been a sensible step for them to take 
to try to move things forward for Ms C. 
The assessment was conducted by one of Avivas panel solicitors and a copy of this was 
provided to Ms C. Ive read the opinion and I dont consider it to be obviously wrong, Im also 
satisfied that its author was suitably qualified to make the assessment. It concluded that I do 
not consider that the claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success in trespass and/or 
nuisance. But it did go on to highlight further information that might be of relevance to 
considering the trespass element of the claim. I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on this 
opinion to decline to take further action on the claim at that time. And as Id expect, when 
further information was provided, it was considered by the solicitor and Aviva went on to 
change their position based on the further advice. I wont comment on that point as it is the 
subject of a further complaint. 
I also understand that Ms C feels Aviva have backtracked on a promise to allow her to use 
her own solicitor for the assessment. She also feels she has received poor service and that 
the tone of much of the communication has been negative. She feels they were looking for 
excuses to reject her claim and limit their liability. Ive carefully looked at the communication between Ms C and Aviva and I dont agree that it was unprofessional or inappropriate. I also 
dont think that Aviva unreasonably implied that shed be able to use D for the assessment 
without qualifying that it was reliant on them accepting their terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman