DRN-1772599
 
The complaint
Mr H and Miss J complain about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a fire damage
claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
All references I make to UKI include its contractors and agents.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr H and Miss Js home was damaged by fire. Their kitchen was particularly
affected and wasnt usable. They made a claim to UKI on their buildings insurance policy.
UKI agreed to cover the claim and appointed building contractors to put things right. Mr H
and Miss J originally stayed in a hotel following the fire, but later decided to stay at home
during the kitchen repair works. UKI was to pay them a disturbance allowance for the
duration of the repairs.
It seems there were some delays in arranging a temporary roof repair and in providing a
scope of works. Drying works were arranged to dry out damp areas that had been
damaged.
After repairs to the outside roof were finished, in January 2019, UKI was ready to strip out
the kitchen. But there were still ongoing issues with damp, so it couldnt start replacing the
units. After investigation, it decided to install a new damp proof course (DPC) at its own cost
so that the works could go ahead. The strip out was then completed in mid-March.
When the time for refit came, Miss J provided UKI with evidence that the old kitchen units
had become water-damaged and were warped. So a full refit of the kitchen was needed. In
early May 2019, UKI agreed to cover the full costs of a new kitchen. New units were 
ordered.And refit works began at the end of May 2019. The kitchen was finished in early 
June 2019.
Mr H and Miss J had been unhappy with UKIs handling of their claim and complained to
UKI, originally in February 2019. They were especially unhappy with the delays in getting the 
outside work done; overall project management; delays in getting their disturbance
allowance paid and the proposal to use the old kitchen units in the refit. In June 2019, UKI
sent them a letter apologising for these issues and offering Mr H and Miss J £700 
compensation for their trouble and upset.
In August 2019, Mr H and Miss J made a further complaint to UKI. Some of the issues
related to the delays and poor communication theyd already experienced. But they also
raised concerns about delays in getting paid for the electricity UKI had used during the repair 
works. They remained unhappy with the quality of the repairs. They didnt feel the
contractors had taken care of their things. Miss J also complained about the psychological
impact shed suffered. She provided a letter from her line manager explaining the impact the
claim had had on her mental health and the steps she needed to take to recover.UKI said it wouldnt be looking into the service issues again, as itd already dealt with these.
It noted the delays in issuing the electricity payments. It said the snagging issues had been
signed off and nothing had been raised. But that its contractors would need to inspect the
works again and would look to deal with any further issues. It also told Mr H and Miss J that
any claim for psychological damage would need to be made to its separate liability team.
Mr H and Miss J werent happy with UKIs response. They didnt want UKI going back out to
their home to inspect the works. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr H and Miss Js complaint should be partly upheld. He thought
that given the breakdown in the relationship between UKI and Mr H and Miss J, it was
understandable that they wouldnt want the contractors back in their home. So he suggested 
that Mr H and Miss J could get their own independent contractors to check the snagging 
issues. But they didnt want to go ahead with this option. Without any evidence to support 
that the works werent properly finished, or were poor, our investigator didnt think he could 
comment further on any snagging issues.
Our investigator then thought about whether the compensation, together with the
replacement of the DPC, was enough to recognise the trouble and upset UKIs handling of
the claim had caused Mr H and Miss J. He acknowledged there mightve been pre-existing
issues with damp in the kitchen. But he didnt think the compensation UKI had already paid
was sufficient to recognise the impact the claim had had on Mr H and Miss J. So he
recommended UKI pay them another £300 on top of the £700 itd already paid.
Mr H and Miss J accepted the investigators recommendations.
UKI didnt. It said, in summary, that Mr H and Miss J had chosen to go back to the property,
rather than stay in alternative accommodation. Itd paid over £3000 for the DPC as a gesture 
of goodwill, despite the damp already being present in the home before the claim. And itd 
paid for all of the new kitchen units, despite not all of them being damaged. It said Mr H and 
Miss J had contributed to the delays in the kitchen repairs. Mr H and Miss J had had multiple 
opportunities to let UKI put any snagging issues right, but wouldnt allow its contractors in the 
home. Miss J had been told to contact the liability team about the impact on her mental 
health  this wasnt something the complaints team could assess.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 March 2020. I explained the reasons why I thought 
UKI had responded fairly to Mr H and Miss J's concerns. In my provisional decision, I said:
Snagging issues
When Mr H and Miss J made their second complaint to UKI in August 2019, they referred to
further snagging issues and lack of care by UKIs contractors. UKI offered to inspect any
issues and deal with them. Mr H and Miss J didnt want the contractors in their home and
refused. The investigator suggested that they appoint independent contractors to look into
any snagging issues. But they didnt want to pursue this option.
This means theres currently little specialist evidence of the snagging issues or what
remedial works may be needed. So the investigator didnt think he could comment any
further on this complaint point. I tend to agree with him. But in any event, Mr H and Miss J
accepted the investigators recommendations and havent challenged what he said. So I
dont think I need to make any finding on this point.
The liability claimIt seems Miss J is currently in contact with UKIs liability team about making a liability claim
for psychological damage. As this appears to be underway, it wouldnt be appropriate for me
to comment on it here. If Miss J isnt happy with the decision the liability team ultimately
makes, she may be able to refer it to us once UKI has had a chance to consider any new
complaint.
This means the main issue for me to decide is whether or not UKI should pay any more
compensation.
Should UKI pay additional compensation?
Its clear Mr H and Miss J have suffered significant trouble, upset and inconvenience as a
result of UKIs handling of their claim. UKI accepts there were months of delays at the outset 
and then along the line when the damp issues were discovered. Ive carefully 
considered everything Mr H and Miss J have said and sent us. I can see that there has been 
a real impact on them and their home life, particularly given they had a new baby at the time 
of the claim. In particular, Im sorry to read about the effect the claim as whole has had on 
Miss J.
But I need to decide if what UKI has already paid Mr H and Miss J recognises the trouble
and upset its handling of the claim has caused. And currently I think it does.
Its clear from the claims notes and from what Mr H and Miss J have told us that they chose
to return to their home, rather than stay in alternative accommodation. Theyve given me
plausible reasons about why it wouldve been difficult to stay in alternative accommodation
during this time and why it was better to stay in their home. I understand their reasons.
But all claims tend to cause some degree of inconvenience and Mr H and Miss J were paid
disturbance allowance in acknowledgement of this. They also knew theyd be without the
use of a kitchen while drying and repair works happened. So even though the works took
substantially longer than theyd anticipated, I do have to bear in mind that it was their choice
to stay in the house during the repairs.
I also appreciate Mr H and Miss J had to invest a fair amount of time contacting UKI when
things had gone wrong. I think there were times they shouldnt have had to. For example,
regularly needing to chase up their disturbance allowance payments and their electricity
payments. And when UKIs contractors tried to refit warped and damaged units.
But in considering what fair compensation is, I need to think about UKIs settlement as a
whole. I dont think this was limited to the payment of £700 for trouble and upset. UKI also
agreed to install a new DPC at a cost of around £3000. It didnt need to do this under the
terms of the policy. It could have chosen either not to install one, or it couldve held Mr H and 
Miss J responsible for the costs. By putting in a DPC in the kitchen, UKI has likely prevented 
future damage caused by damp which wouldve likely occurred if it hadnt installed one.
UKI also suggested that some of the damage to Mr H and Miss Js kitchen units was down to 
the existing damp issues, as well as down to fire damage. But it agreed to replace the full
kitchen, even though it hadnt all been damaged by the fire. I think this was a fair and
reasonable response. Thats because this decision meant the repairs could restart without
further delays or dispute about what was and wasnt covered.
Overall, I think UKI has paid significantly more for this claim than it needed to or was liable
for under the terms of the policy. It did this as a gesture of goodwill and I think I need to
consider this together with the £700 its already paid Mr H and Miss J for trouble and upset.So, based on all Ive seen so far, I dont currently think UKI needs to pay Mr H and Miss J
anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider by 24 April 2020.
UKI didn't respond to my provisional decision.
Mr H and Miss J said it was disappointing that this decision had been reached, but thanked 
us for our help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H and Miss J, nor UKI have provided me with anything further to consider, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision. So while I'm sorry to disappoint Mr H and 
Miss J, I don't think UKI needs to pay them anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I don't 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman