DRN-2160228
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Arrow Global Limited applied unfair charges to their secured 
loan. As a result it took longer to be repaid than it should have.  
What happened
In 2003, Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan with another lender over a term of 15 years. 
The loan was transferred to a different lender and then to Arrow Global in 2016. The loan 
was repaid in September 2019.
Mr and Mrs M say that they experienced some financial difficulty during the term of the loan. 
They say that the various charges applied to the loan werent fair. And that meant it took 
them around 18 months after the loan term had ended to repay it.
Our investigator explained we could only look at charges applied from 1 November 2013  
the complaint about any charges applied before that was brought to us too late. Both Mr and 
Mrs M and Arrow Global accepted that.
The investigator thought that Arrow Global should refund the fees it had applied where Mr 
and Mrs M paid the contractual monthly payment or a higher amount. She didnt think any 
other fees or charges had been applied unfairly during the period in question.
Mr and Mrs M accepted what the investigator said. Arrow Global did not. It said the fees 
were applied by the original lender in line with the terms and conditions of the loan as the 
loan was in arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs M were in arrears on their mortgage or that the terms and 
conditions allowed fees to be applied if the loan was in arrears. But I need to decide what in 
my opinion is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were in arrears from 1 November 2013. Administration fees were applied 
between then and July 2016. I can see that there was a significant amount of work carried 
out by Arrow Global or its predecessors in respect of the arrears in trying to contact Mr and 
Mrs M. And payments werent maintained consistently during that period. In view of that, and 
the lack of engagement from Mr and Mrs M, I consider that most of the fees have been 
applied fairly and reasonably.
There were seven occasions where Mr and Mrs M paid more than the contractual monthly 
payment, yet an administration fee was still applied. I accept that the loan was still in arrears 
and that there was no formal arrangement in place. But Arrow Global (or its predecessors) 
ought reasonably to have known that Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulty and it was 
likely that they were paying as much as they could afford in those months. It isnt clear why it 
believed it was fair or reasonable to apply the same fee or carry out the same level of work 
as it would when no payment was made at all. By applying the fee in such circumstances, it 
made it more difficult to for Mr and Mrs M to repay the mortgage in the agreed term  and a 
reasonable lender would have thought about the sustainability of applying fees in that way.
Overall, I agree with the investigator that it would be fair for Arrow Global to refund the 
administration fees it applied in months where Mr and Mrs M paid the contractual monthly 
payment or a higher.
Neither side has disagreed with the conclusions reached by the investigator in respect of the 
other charges. But for the avoidance of any doubt I consider that apart from seven 
administration fees, the fees and charges have been applied fairly in this case.
 Putting things right
Arrow Global Limited should refund any administration fees that were applied to Mr and Mrs 
Ms loan from when they paid more than the contractual monthly payment from1 November 
2013 until the loan was repaid totalling £290.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Arrow Global Limited should refund the 
administration fees as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman