DRN-1463751
The complaint
Ms B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) declined her claim for a refund 
for an item she purchased using her credit card.
What happened
Ms B bought a mobile phone from the website of a well-known manufacturer in August 2018. 
She paid £669.00 via PayPal using her Tesco Bank Mastercard credit card, and traded in an 
old phone for £200.
There were various problems with the phone which Ms B reported to the manufacturer. Its 
not necessary to go into the details, but in the end she was unable to resolve the issues she 
was having with the manufacturer and contacted Tesco Bank in April 2019 to assist in 
getting a refund.
Tesco Bank said it had no responsibility to refund Ms B. It said she had contacted it too late 
for it to carry out a chargeback, and that because she had paid via PayPal, she wasnt 
covered by the protection afforded under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter. He concluded 
Tesco Bank didnt have to do anything further because section 75 of the CCA did not apply 
to the purchase of the phone.
Ms B said her complaint hadnt been fully investigated and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will say before continuing that this is a complaint about Tesco Bank, not PayPal or the 
phone manufacturer. That means I am only considering Tesco Banks responsibility to Ms B 
and Im not commenting on whether or not the other companies have done something 
wrong.
When someone uses a credit card to buy goods or services and then something goes wrong 
with what theyve bought, there are two ways in which their credit card company would be 
expected to help them, either as a matter of good industry practice or because they have a 
legal responsibility to do so.
The first way a credit card provider could help would be by disputing the transaction for the 
purchase via the card network (in this case, Mastercard). This dispute process is usually 
known as chargeback. The rules for chargebacks are set by the card network, and these 
rules include time limits on how late after a purchase a chargeback can be made. I would 
generally expect a credit card provider, as a matter of good practice, to attempt a 
chargeback if it had a reasonable prospect of being successful.
Tesco Bank says that by the time Ms B contacted it to dispute the purchase, it couldnt 
attempt a chargeback because it was too late to do so. The rules say that Tesco Bank could 
have attempted a chargeback up to 120 days from the date of the original transaction. When 
Ms B first contacted Tesco Bank it was already more than 120 days from the date of the 
original transaction, which means the bank could not have made a successful chargeback. I 
therefore cant see that it did anything wrong by deciding not to attempt one.
The second way in which a credit card provider could help, would be by considering a claim 
under section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 allows consumers to claim against their credit card 
provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services, 
so long as certain technical conditions are met.
Tesco Bank has argued the technical conditions have not been met. In particular, they say 
that the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement cannot be determined, because Ms B 
paid via PayPal. The requirement for a DCS agreement is one of the technical conditions 
which needs to be met for section 75 to apply to a purchase, and this is set out in the 
legislation. But put simply, it means that a person needs to have used their credit card to pay 
the company they have a claim against for breach of contract or misrepresentation, in order 
for section 75 to apply.
In this case, Ms B says the manufacturer sold her a faulty phone, so she needs to have paid 
the manufacturer with her Tesco Bank credit card, for Tesco Bank to have any responsibility 
to her under section 75. Ms B did pay the manufacturer, and her Tesco Bank credit card was 
used in that process. However, she made the purchase via PayPal.
The fact she has used PayPal doesnt necessarily mean that Tesco Bank isnt liable to Ms B 
under section 75. Thats because PayPal can be involved in transactions in different ways. 
Where they act purely as a payment processor for a credit card payment, my view is that 
they do not invalidate the DCS agreement between the debtor, creditor and supplier.
However, PayPal can also be involved in transactions as an electronic money provider. 
When PayPal is involved in this way, the credit card is used to fund the buyers PayPal 
account with electronic money. That electronic money is then paid from their PayPal account 
to the suppliers PayPal account. In other words, the credit card is paying for electronic 
money from PayPal, and not the goods or services directly. When PayPal acts in this way 
my view is that it does mean the DCS agreement is invalidated. If a person logs in to their 
PayPal account during the purchase process, PayPal is operating as an electronic money 
provider.
Ive carefully considered the evidence in this case of how PayPal operated. Ms B has 
provided a printout from her PayPal account which is an invoice showing the purchase of the 
phone. The fact that the details of the transaction appear in Ms Bs PayPal account means 
that she logged into her PayPal account during the process of buying the phone. I have also 
visited the website of the manufacturer and tested their checkout process, and discovered 
that the option to pay via PayPal requires the purchaser to log into their PayPal account.
Bearing this in mind, I conclude PayPal operated as an electronic money provider during this 
transaction. What Ms B has effectively used her credit card to pay for is this electronic 
money, which has then been paid to the manufacturer by PayPal. I appreciate it is a 
technicality, but in my view it does mean that section 75 does not apply to the purchase of 
the phone and therefore Ms B cannot hold Tesco Bank liable for the problems shes 
experienced. It follows that I am unable to say the bank must refund the transaction.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman