DRN-3434749
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Shawbrook Bank Limited dealt with his request to repay his 
loans.
What happened
Mr C says he took out two Shawbrook loans. He says he called it in January 2020 to repay 
both loans and thought he had done so. Mr C says he was then told further payments were 
required before eventually finding out that Shawbrook was saying only one loan had been 
repaid. He says it has taken two years to sort out and would like his money repaid as well as 
compensation.
Shawbrook accepts it made a mistake by not responding to Mr Cs complaint within a 
reasonable time period and by not providing accurate information. It says when Mr C called it 
about a settlement figure that only one account was mentioned not two. Shawbrook says Mr 
C repaid one loan but not the other and that loan remains outstanding. It has paid £200 
compensation.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Shawbrook had acted fairly by 
paying compensation as well as explaining what took place. The investigator accepted Mr C 
called Shawbrook about both accounts but thought the second loan was still in place and 
required repayment.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he has wasted two years trying to sort out matters. 
He says the mistake has had a serious affect on his finances and disagrees that the 
compensation amount is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Shawbrook has acted fairly by 
apologising for what took place, providing an explanation for the events and by paying an 
appropriate compensation amount.
There is no question here that Shawbrook made mistakes dealing with Mr Cs complaint 
which are well known to the parties and do not require me to set them out again in detail. Im 
satisfied that Shawbrook ought reasonably to have been able to check all of Mr Cs accounts 
when he called and provided an accurate total amount to be repaid for both loans. I have no 
doubt Mr C was caused inconvenience in finding out both loans hadnt be repaid and I 
accept that Shawbrook took far too long to investigate this complaint and provide an answer.
The key question for me to consider is the level of compensation. Im satisfied that Mr C 
didnt suffer any financial loss that I have seen evidence of and think that if Mr C had been 
given the correct balance then he would have still needed to repay that amount. It follows 
that I dont think one of the loans was ever repaid and that Mr C is still obliged to repay it. I 
cant fairly order Shawbrook write off that loan or refund Mr C any payments made towards 
it.
I accept Mr C would have spent some time trying to contact Shawbrook about what took 
place but equally I think it ought reasonably to have been clear to Mr C that he hadnt repaid 
both loans as he would have been aware of how much he borrowed and how much he had 
repaid. I also think that Mr C was told in 2021 what had taken place.
Im satisfied that the total compensation award of £200 is fair and reasonable and in line with 
the type of awards we would have made in these sorts of circumstances. I have made clear 
that I dont think there was any financial loss here as Mr C didnt repay both loans and that I 
dont think Shawbrooks actions justify further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman