DRN-4178174
The complaint
Mrs G complains that West Bromwich Building Society (WB) failed to notify her about the 
maturity date of her fixed rate bond and refused to close the bond after the funds rolled over. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs G invested £10,000 into a fixed rate bond provided by WB, for a fixed term 
of three years. Under the terms and conditions for the bond, if no instructions were given 
before maturity, the funds would be automatically reinvested into another fixed rate bond or if 
such a product was unavailable, into an easy access account.
WB say they wrote to Mrs G on 14 April 2022 setting out the options at maturity, but no 
response was received. In line with the terms and conditions the funds were then re-invested 
into another three-year fixed rate product. The same terms applied, namely, that withdrawal 
was not permitted until the end of the term.
Mrs G says she did not receive any correspondence from WB and she was unwell at the 
time so could not attend her local WB branch. Mrs G attended the branch on 16 January 
2023 and requested closure of the new bond. WB declined to close the bond as it had not 
yet reached maturity.
Mrs G says she needs funds to repay her son who paid for building works to her property. In 
her initial complaint to our service, Mrs G claimed she was in financial difficulty.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He thought it was 
more likely than not that WB sent Mrs G a maturity pack providing information about the 
maturity options and even if the letter had not been received, Mrs G ought reasonably to 
have known that the fixed-term period was coming to an end. Whilst Mrs G may not have 
been able to attend the branch, it was likely that instructions could have been given over the 
phone or electronically. As no instructions were received, WB rolled the funds into another 
fixed rate bond in line with the term and conditions. On balance, our investigator thought the 
information provided to Mrs G was clear, fair and not misleading. The terms had explained 
that withdrawals could not be made before maturity. So, WB did nothing wrong in refusing 
the request to withdraw funds early.
Mrs G maintains that she did not receive a letter about the maturity date, she did not intend 
to reinvest the funds, WB had treated her unfairly and she criticised WBs lack of 
compassion.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed that Mrs G signed the application form for the original bond in 2019 and 
agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions. Having reviewed the information available 
at the time, I consider that it is more likely than not that Mrs G knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that the bond was fixed for three years and at the maturity date she would have 
to make an election about whether to re-invest or to withdraw the funds. Im also satisfied 
that Mrs G agreed to the term which said funds would be re-invested into a like product (if 
available) if no instructions were provided.
On balance, I find that it is more likely than not that WB did send a maturity pack containing 
the options available to Mrs G. Thats supported by screenshots from the time and theres 
nothing to show that the correspondence address was incorrect. Even if Mrs G didnt receive 
the pack, and Im persuaded its likely she did receive it, then in the alternative I consider 
that Mrs G ought reasonably to have known the maturity date. It was for Mrs G to give 
instructions about the funds at maturity. There was no requirement for Mrs G to go to branch 
to give these instructions, which could have given by phone or electronically. So, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs G was unable to give her instructions in time.
As no instructions were given, WB moved the funds into another fixed bond in accordance 
with the original terms and conditions, to which Mrs G had agreed. It is relevant that Mrs G 
didnt contact WB until around nine months after the bond matured and at that point sought 
withdrawal to move funds to a higher paying interest account. I note Mrs G does not recall 
this conversation, but I think it is unlikely that WB would have fabricated this event.
Ive also seen that WB did consider Mrs Gs circumstances when she later made contact. 
Ive seen notes from a call in February 2023 where Mrs G was told that under the terms of 
the bond withdrawals could not be made until it reached maturity, however, consideration 
would be given to circumstances where financial difficulty was shown. The notes record that 
Mrs G disconnected the call and no further information was provided at this time. WB have 
also highlighted that an inconsistent account was given, with Mrs G initially asking in branch 
to withdraw funds to move to a higher paying interest account, then saying she needed to 
withdraw funds to repay a loan from her son for completion of building works which appear 
to have been completed several months after the original bond matured. It may be that Mrs 
G has a family arrangement but I havent seen anything to support the claim that this has 
caused financial difficulty. So, on the basis of the information provided, Im not persuaded 
WB have done anything wrong in applying the terms and conditions for the bond and 
refusing the early withdrawal request.
Given my findings, I find that it isnt fair and reasonable to ask WB to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but for the reasons given I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman