DRN-3430005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined their claim on their home 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance that was underwritten by Tesco Underwriting. In May 
2021 they made a claim after their garage was broken into and a number of items were 
damaged. This included some white goods and appliances, tools and over 100 fishing rods. 
Tesco sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and subsequently declined most of Mr and 
Mrs S claim. It said the Mr S had told them the tools were used as part of his work and this 
is excluded under the policy. And hed said that the fishing rods were to sell, which Tesco 
said was also excluded. Further Mr and Mrs S disposed of most of the appliances before the 
loss adjuster could inspect them, so it said it wasnt able to validate these items. However it 
offered a settlement of £3,234.99 for two fridge freezers which it was able to inspect.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this settlement. They said they only sold the fishing rods at 
car boot sales for very little money and most of the tools werent used for business purposes. 
Further they said theyd been told by the initial loss adjuster that they could dispose of the 
items which is why theyd done so. They complained to Tesco but it maintained its position 
on the claim. Unhappy with this, they brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Tesco had done enough to show the exclusion for business use and trade 
would apply here. And thought it was fair that as Tesco were unable to validate the items 
that were disposed of, that it couldnt offer a settlement for those.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco has declined parts of Mr and Mrs S claim for different reasons. I need to decide if its 
acted fairly in each case.
Tools
Tesco has declined Mr and Mrs S claim for the tools stored in their garage as it says 
they were for business use. The policy excludes: loss or damage caused in 
connection with any trade, business or profession. 
In Mr S statement to the loss adjuster he stated I occasionally work as a 
carpenter/outside work. I also do paint spraying of houses and fences. Most of the 
tools are used in connection to this.
In Mr S call to Tesco in June 2021 he says that as the tools hadnt yet been replaced 
he was losing money. The call handler asked if these were work related and Mr S 
responded Yes, all my tools, all the tools that were stolen
Mr S has since said that he only used a couple of the tools for work and the others 
were for personal use. 
Considering everything, I think Tesco has acted fairly by relying on the exclusion to 
decline this part of the claim as Mr S stated in all of his initial contact with it that they 
were for business use.
Fishing rods
Tesco has declined this part of the claim by relying on the same exclusion. Its said 
Mr S said he had intended to sell them, so they were in connection with trade and 
business use. 
Mr S has said that while he does intend to sell the items, this is only at a car boot 
sale and not for a lot of money. He says Tesco initially said if he does car boot sales 
that earn less than £1,000 then it wouldnt count as related to business.
Ive considered everything and I think Tesco has acted fairly by applying this 
exclusion to this part of the claim. As regardless of the amount the rods sell for, Mr 
S intention was to sell them on, rather to keep them for personal use. So they would 
more reasonably be described as being in connection to business use and trade. 
Items that were disposed of
Tesco has said that as its been unable to validate these items, it wont be able to 
offer a settlement for them. 
It states in the policy: Except with our written consent you must notdispose of or 
destroy any items that are damaged until we agree.
When settling a claim the insurer needs to go through a validation process for 
damaged items. This will usually mean checking to see if they can be repaired and, if 
not, calculating the cost of a replacement. If it isnt able to inspect the items then it 
cant carry out this process, so it isnt possible for it to conclude how the claim should 
be settled. So its reasonable that Tesco hasnt settled this part of the claim. 
Mr S says that he was given permission to dispose of the items by Tescos loss 
adjuster. However Tesco dispute this. In the phone calls and emails provided, Ive 
seen no evidence to show that Mr S was given authorisation to dispose of the items. 
And as it says in the policy terms that this is required in writing, I am persuaded that 
Tesco, and its agents, didnt give authorisation for the items to be disposed of. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Tescos acted fairly by not agreeing to settle this 
part of the claim. 
Items not considered
Mr S has said that there are a number of items that Tesco hasnt considered as part of the 
claim that have also been damaged. If this is the case, he will need to provide evidence of 
the items to Tesco to consider and make a decision on, and if he remains unhappy with its 
decision on these, he can bring a separate complaint to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman