DRN-3845813
The complaint
Ms G complains about Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac (Allied)s handling 
of her buildings insurance claim.
Ms G is represented by Mr G, so for ease I will refer to him in part below.
All references to Allied also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The damaged pipe at the property is located in a communal area and its not in 
dispute its a shared responsibility. Allied have offered Mr G a settlement for 50% of 
the repair costs  which I think is fair and reasonable and reflects what I would 
expect it to do in the circumstances to these types of incidents where a pipe is 
shared.
The claim was logged in February 2022 and settlement made around six weeks later.  
While I understand Mr Gs concerns about the claim being concluded quickly due to 
the circumstances of the damage, Allied are entitled to validate the claim and Ive not 
identified any avoidable delays it caused in doing so.
Its common for Insurance companies to ask for photos, reports or repair estimates 
when a consumer makes a claim. This option often helps progress matters faster, 
and I dont think Allied acted unreasonably in asking this. This also presented the 
option to Mr G to potentially conclude matters quicker to alleviate the concerns of Ms 
Gs tenants.  However, Allied subsequently arranged to inspect and quote for repairs 
following discussion with Mr G and him providing his agreement.
I appreciate the problems Mr G experienced with Allieds claim portal  and the 
inconvenience he has been caused in handling the claim. However, I cannot consider 
an award for inconvenience Mr G has suffered  as he is not the policy holder and is 
a representative of Ms G.
Mr G also pointed out the inconvenience suffered by Ms G and her tenants. I 
appreciate the circumstances meant the tenants would have been upset and waiting 
for Ms G to resolve the issue. However, claims do come with natural inconvenience. 
And in the circumstances, Im not persuaded Ms G has been inconvenienced any 
more than I would reasonably expect from a claim of this nature. As Ive set out 
above, I dont think Allied have caused any avoidable delays. 
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman