DRN-2092729
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy with some of the repairs carried out by a contractor appointed for her by 
CGHW Ltd, a firm of loss assessors, who dealt with her home insurance claim for fire 
damage to her home.
 
What happened
In December 2017 Ms O had a house fire. She was approached by CGHW and agreed they 
would deal with the claim on her behalf. CGHW arranged with the insurer for a surveyor to 
oversee the repairs. In April 2018 a firm of building contractors were appointed to carry out 
the necessary repair work. The work started in July 2018 and was essentially completed by 
December 2018. The insurer released the funds in respect of the agreed settlement in 
February 2019..
In June 2019 Ms O complained that the boiler wasnt working. CGHW authorised a repair 
through the insurer. In September 2019 Ms O complained of damp issues in the kitchen. 
CGHW arranged for the surveyor to come out and inspect. Thy said there was a problem 
with damp on the external wall, probably caused by defective pointing or poor drainage. Thy 
didnt believe this had anything to do with the internal repairs.
Ms O had a list of issues that were still outstanding and which she said CGHW had failed to 
remedy. These were. 
Kitchen units not fitted correctly and holes in the units under the sink.
Boiler unusable.
Leak on kitchen floor under the dishwasher and sink.
Extractor fan damaged and not working.
Sockets faulty in kitchen and keep tripping.
Green mould on the outside wall and in second bedroom and damp patches on the
wall.
Front door has dropped, back door leaks every time it rains.
Gaps in window frame of bedroom window.
Woodworm and mould in the loft room.
Wood lice all through the property. 
Ms O referred her complaint to this service. CGHW had already reviewed those issues, but 
our investigator thought that apart from the leak and extractor fan CGHW had dealt with the 
outstanding matters. But he suggested that it look at those matters again when it revisited. 
The contractors did so and as a result arranged to adjust the door, refix a loose socket, and 
fill in the gaps in the window frame. In respect of the leak, they noted that there was an 
ongoing leak from the pipe connected to the boiler. As they had inspected this in October 
2019, and there was no leak then, and the damage wasnt consistent with a leak that had 
been going on for that long, they didnt consider this had anything to do with the repairs. 
They noted that Ms O had recently had a new boiler fitted and believed it related to that.
CGHW agreed to pay Ms O £300 compensation for the delays, which Ms O accepted.
Our investigator thought that CGHW had a dealt adequately with the outstanding issues mad 
had paid reasonable compensation.
Ms O didnt agree and thought that CGHW was responsible for the ongoing leak which had 
caused further damage to her kitchen. She also said it had refused to replace the door. She 
has recently raised with our investigator that she felt racially discriminated against by 
CGHW. She wasnt able to provide any specific examples and our investigator felt unable to 
pursue that issue any further.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Of the outstanding issues I believe the following have now been dealt with:
Extractor fan 
Sockets 
Gaps in window frame
I have reviewed the other issues as follows:
kitchen units not fitted correctly and holes in the units under the sink
The surveyor confirmed these were correctly fitted. The holes, which arent externally visible, 
are fir access to the internal bolts.
boiler unusable
I understand all works were carried out and certified as gas safe at the time. The issue with 
the boiler didnt arise until some months later, however this was dealt with by a separate 
engineer under Ms Os insurance. I dont think the issues with the boiler related to the 
original repairs. I understand that it has now been replaced (not by CGHW).
green mould on the outside wall and in second bedroom/damp patches on the wall.
CGHW arranged two inspections of this, but couldnt find any fault relating to the original 
repairs. They said there was defective pointing and poor drainage and growth of moss 
outside. As I dont think any repairs were carried out to the outside walls, this appears to be 
a maintenance problem. I havent seen any expert evidence to counter this.
front door has dropped, back door leaks every time it rains
CGHW arranged for the front door to be adjusted and said that any gap is within tolerance. 
Ms O wants the door to be replaced but I cant see any justification for that. With regard to 
the back door, this wasnt part of the repairs.
woodworm and mould in the loft room/ wood lice all through the property. Only cosmetic work was carried out in the loft room. Whilst these issues could be signs of 
damp, the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that the contractors were responsible for this.
ongoing leak
There is actually an ongoing leak, noticed when CGHW carried out its reinspection. Ms O 
has shown us a report from a plumber who says the leak is from the pipework below the 
boiler and has been going on for some time. CGHWs surveyor didnt note this leak when he 
inspected in October 2018, but on reinspection in June 2020, agreed that there was such a 
leak, as described by Ms Os plumber. CGHW assert that this is related to the boiler being 
replaced and says that the leak wouldnt have been ongoing since the repairs were 
completed or there would be a much greater degree of damage. 
Ms Os report says where the leak is coming from, but I havent seen any expert evidence to 
relate this leak to the original repairs. It does appear more likely to have happened when the 
boiler was replaced. I cant hold CGHW responsible for this. I can only suggest that Ms O 
makes a further insurance claim in respect of the damage caused by this.
Finally Ms O feels there has been racial discrirnination in this case because of the way she 
was spoken to. That is a serious allegation but we would need to know what were the actual 
instances of discrimination she believes happened. Without that there is nothing we can put 
to CGHW or its contractors. I can understand that Ms O feels uneasy about it but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to take this any further.
My final decision
I note CGHWs payment of compensation and I dont intend to require it to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman