DRN-2944081
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Soteria Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement for a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs As boundary wall collapsed during a storm. Soteria accepted their claim, but it 
wasnt prepared to undertake the repair because it said non-insured works were also 
required to the walls foundation.
Soteria offered £4,064 to settle the claim. However, the eventual works costs Mr and Mrs A 
£9,044, plus four fence panels (which were yet to be purchased when the complaint was 
referred to our service).
Mr and Mrs A complain about the settlement. They also complain that Soteria changed its 
position six weeks after telling them it would undertake the repair, and the collapsed wall 
was left resting on their neighbours garage.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint in part. She thought Soteria should increase 
its settlement to cover Mr and Mrs As wall demolishing costs and pay £200 compensation. 
However, she didnt think Soteria was responsible for the foundation works. Because 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy, their complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint in full. In 
my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Various points have been made by the parties, but Ill focus on the points I consider relevant 
to my intended outcome.
Soteria accepted Mr and Mrs As claim for storm damage, i.e. it accepted that the proximate 
cause of the wall collapsing was storm force winds. However, its since sought to limit its 
liability based on the wall being poorly designed and/or constructed.
Soteria referred to the walls thickness being inappropriate for its height, and the adequacy 
of the walls existing foundation. However, I understand the main issue was its foundation, 
because despite the walls single skin construction and height, Soteria has noted it was 
benefitting from multiple piers which provided lateral support.
Soteria says the lower part of the wall acts as a retaining wall, so it should be a minimum of 
one and half bricks wide. Soteria wasnt willing to replace the wall on its existing foundation, 
and it said a new foundation would need to be excavated and concrete filled. Soteria didnt 
consider it was liable for such works. It says such works are betterment and not due to the 
storm. It offered £4,064 to settle the claim, less the £100 policy excess. It says thats the 
amount it would have cost to replace the wall on a like-for-like basis, had one of its 
contractors done the work.
Soteria has also questioned whether the wall collapsed due to the storm. It says had the wall 
been constructed adequately, it may not have collapsed. Soteria says its being fair by not 
declining the claim outright, and I accept it was trying to be fair. Given Mr and Mrs As 
eventual works, I also accept the existing foundation wasnt suitable for a new wall. 
However, overall, Im not persuaded Soterias approach is fair and reasonable. In my view, 
Soteria hasnt sufficiently shown the walls foundation was poorly designed or constructed 
based on standards that applied to it, at the time it was built. Im also not persuaded that 
Soteria has shown the walls foundation was the main cause of the collapse (rather than 
storm winds), and neither has it committed itself to such opinion. But rather, Soteria has 
limited its liability because it now questions the cause of the collapse. I dont consider 
this approach to be treating Mr and Mrs A fairly. 
Having accepted the proximate cause of the collapse was the storm, Soteria was liable for 
completing an effective and lasting repair. This has long been the approach of our service. 
So, this means, if the wall couldnt be rebuilt on its existing foundation, Soteria needed to 
cover the necessary foundation works. 
Mr and Mrs As chosen solution cost about the same as Soterias estimated costs for all the 
works it considered necessary, and I note they have tried to be pragmatic by lowering the 
wall and using fence panels. As such, Im persuaded Soteria should cover Mr and Mrs As 
costs. I would be grateful if Mr and Mrs A could confirm how much they were charged for 
their fence panels, when responding to my provisional decision.
Theres been delays in the claim settlement, and changes of position by Soteria. Ive also 
seen the situation was causing friction between Mr and Mrs A and their neighbours; and 
Mr and Mrs A were left to find their own contractor to demolish the wall, despite Soteria 
acknowledging that this would be difficult for them due to the risk of damaging the 
neighbours garage. 
Having considered whats happened, and whilst I accept Soteria was endeavouring to be fair 
in some respects, I intend to award Mr and Mrs A £300 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs A clarified that they werent claiming for the fence panels, but they otherwise 
accepted my provisional decision.
Soteria noted the following:
- There werent any building regulations to refer back to; only recommendations. The 
wall was 2.5m high and 9m long. So, as per the Planning Portal guidance, the wall 
should have been at least 1.5 bricks thick; but it was only single skin. However, it 
also had multiple attached piers to factor in, which provided lateral support.
- The fact that Soterias contractor and Mr and Mrs As contractor wouldnt reinstate 
the wall on a like-for-like basis, is evidence the design wasnt adequate. - Soterias view on the construction of the wall, and the recommendations provided on 
the Planning Portal (had it existed), would have been no different at the time of 
construction.
- There are no specific regulations preventing the wall from being rebuilt on a like-for-
like basis. Therefore, it would not fall on Soteria, under the terms of the policy, to 
cover the cost of improving the design.
- The reason no reputable contractor would rebuild the wall on a like-for-like basis is 
the foundation wasnt adequate, and the contractors wouldnt want to be liable for 
any future/premature failure. 18 years isnt a long time for a wall to stand, if built 
correctly and maintained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Soteria continues to question the adequacy of the design and construction of the wall 
and its foundation, it hasnt at any stage shown its collapse was caused by such issues. But 
rather, Soteria has accepted a claim for storm damage, i.e. its accepted the main cause of 
the walls collapse was storm force winds.
Having accepted the proximate cause of the walls collapse was a storm, Soteria needs to 
complete, or cover the cost of, an effective and lasting repair.
Whilst Soteria says there are no specific regulations preventing the wall from being rebuilt on 
a like-for-like basis, neither party was prepared to build upon the existing foundation. As 
such, its not disputed that an effective and lasting repair in this case, includes a new 
foundation. 
Therefore, it follows that, as per our approach, Soteria is liable for replacing the wall and its 
foundation.
So, having reconsidered the original submissions, and Soterias response to my provisional 
decision, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, 
for Soteria to cover all of Mr and Mrs As rebuild costs (that they are claiming for).
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Soteria Insurance Limited should:
- reimburse Mr and Mrs A £9,044 for their replacement wall (less their policy excess 
and any amount already paid);
- add 8% simple interest1 per annum on the settlement amount, from the date the 
invoice was paid to the date of settlement (Mr and Mrs A will need to evidence 
the payment date and amount to Soteria); and
1If Soteria Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. If requested, Soteria 
should also provide Mr and Mrs A with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can reclaim 
it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.- pay Mr and Mrs A £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman