DRN-2804687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance through a bank account, insured by Aviva. 
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs T left the UK for a trip. They had booked a cruise from a country 
abroad to Singapore and were due to stay in Singapore then fly to Thailand then fly home on 
24 February 2020. Mr T says flights, hotels, an excursion and transfers were booked 
independently to the cruise.
On 11 February 2020, during Mr and Mrs Ts cruise, the cruise company informed the 
passengers that it had taken advice from public health authorities and medical experts due 
to Covid-19 developments. The cruise wouldnt be going to Singapore or Thailand but would 
return to the country from where it departed which it did on 16 February. 
Mr and Mrs T stayed in that country for one night and flew back to the UK on 17 February. 
They claimed on their travel insurance for the extra costs incurred and the costs lost due to 
cutting short their holiday. The cruise company reimbursed Mr and Mrs T with some of the 
new flight costs to the UK, which they deducted from the claim amount. They are claiming 
about £5,000.
Aviva declined the claim. It referred to the insured risks under the cancellation section of the 
policy and said the claim wasnt covered as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
hadnt advised against all but essential travel to Singapore and Thailand at the time the 
cruise ended. The cancellation section also covered Mr and Mrs T choosing not to travel 
because the area in which they were staying was affected by a pandemic or epidemic 
influenza but Aviva said that didnt apply as Covid-19 wasnt influenza.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us and want the claim paid. They said while abroad they tried to 
phone Aviva for advice several times but got a recorded message saying it was 
exceptionally busy due to Covid-19 and they should contact their travel operator who would 
assist with alternative travel arrangements. Mr and Mrs T said they decided not to fly to 
Singapore or Thailand as the information from the cruise company and the media was that to 
do so would be to travel towards the disease. They also said the policy wording was unclear 
and didnt define pandemic, epidemic or influenza so it would be fair for Aviva to treat 
Covid-19 as similar and cover the claim. 
Our investigator said the policy section on abandoning a holiday was the relevant section, 
but the same issues that Aviva had relied on applied and it had fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. Mr T made the additional point 
that from his research hed found internet posts which suggested Aviva was willing to cover 
claims due to the SARS virus so it was unfair not to cover Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt decline a claim unreasonably. I think Aviva declined the 
claim reasonably so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered all the points Mr and Mrs T have made but I wont be addressing 
each point in this decision. Ill focus on why I think Aviva fairly declined the claim.
In declining the claim Aviva referred to the cancellation section policy wording. But that 
section applies only if Mr and Mrs T needed to cancel their trip before they left home, which 
wasnt the situation. The correct policy section for Aviva to assess the claim against is 
Abandoning your holiday  if you need to return home early. 
The abandonment of holiday section covers the costs Mr and Mrs T paid, and cant get back, 
for their unused travel and accommodation and also additional travel and accommodation 
costs to allow them to return home early if they unavoidably have to abandon the trip 
because of a listed insured event.
One insured event under the abandonment of holiday section is that:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office have issued an advisory notice against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, are advising British citizens to 
leave the area in which you are staying and return home.
But the FCO didnt advise against all but essential travel abroad until 17 March 2020 and 
didnt advise that British travellers abroad should return to the UK until 23 March 2020. 
Those dates are three and four weeks after when Mr and Mrs T had been due to originally 
return.
So when Mr and Mrs T cut short their trip on 17 February the FCO hadnt advised against 
travel to Singapore or Thailand. And I cant see there were any restrictions against British 
travellers visiting those countries at that time.
Another insured event under the abandonment of holiday section is:
 The area in which you are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza.
Aviva says Covid-19 isnt influenza so the claim isnt covered. Mr and Mrs T say that policy 
term wording isnt clear and can be read to mean any pandemic, and then separately 
epidemic influenza. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts point about the policy wording being unclear. If I agreed then, in 
line with case law, we generally say that where there is doubt about the meaning of the 
contract the words will be construed against the person who put them forward, in this case 
Aviva. 
But even if I did agree that the policy wording could be reasonably read that an insured 
event is a pandemic (which doesnt have to be an influenza pandemic) that doesnt mean 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim is covered. The World Health Organisation didnt declare Covid-19 a 
pandemic until 11 March 2020. That was about three weeks after Mr and Mrs Ts holiday 
was cut short and about two weeks after they were due to originally return. So I cant reasonably say that at the time they cut short the holiday there was a pandemic so Aviva 
should cover the claim.  
Mr and Mrs T believe strongly Aviva should treat Covid-19 as if its influenza particularly as 
theres no policy definition. Ive given the point considerable thought. Although Covid-19 is a 
serious infectious respiratory illness its not influenza. The WHO say Covid-19 isnt influenza 
or SARS but a different virus. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim wasnt covered by the policy covering epidemic influenza.
Mr T has also referred to information hes found on an insurance comparison website which 
he says shows Aviva was willing to cover SARS under this policy term so it should cover  
Covid-19.
I dont think theres enough information in the insurance comparison website article about 
what Aviva actually said about the exact cover it would provide for me to say it should 
reasonably cover Mr and Mrs Ts claim under their policy. 
The article is about Avivas optional policy upgrades of travel disruption and airspace 
closure. The article reports Aviva as saying SARS outbreaks were the type of incident it had 
in mind when designing the optional extras. The upgrades cover cutting short a holiday due 
to pandemic or epidemic influenza but also due to the FCO advising UK residents to leave 
the area in which they are staying and returning home and airport and port closure.
So it may well be that Avivas comment, as reported by the comparison website, related to 
the FCO advice and/or airport and port closures terms. I note the same website article says 
that if a consumer no longer wants to go to a destination due to a SARS outbreak the 
situation is more complex and cover depends on FCO advice. That comment strongly 
suggests Avivas agreement to cover a SARS outbreak was dependant on the FCO advice 
at the time. As Ive said, when Mr and Mrs T chose not to continue the trip there was no FCO 
advice to avoid non-essential travel to the relevant countries or return home.
I understand why Mr and Mrs T were worried about the risk of Covid-19 if they continued 
their trip. As they werent able to contact Aviva while they were abroad they had to make the 
decision whether to continue based on the information they had. I think their decision to 
return home was understandable. 
But the claim isnt covered under their policy terms. And I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to direct Aviva to cover the claim. At no point during Mr and Mrs Ts trip 
was there any advice from the FCO against travelling to Singapore and/or Thailand, Ive 
explained above why I think Aviva wasnt unreasonable in saying Covid-19 wasnt covered 
as epidemic influenza and at the time the WHO hadnt declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I appreciate theyve incurred considerable costs. But 
taking into account all of the available evidence I cant fairly conclude Aviva has acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman