DRN-2902974
The complaint
Mr B complained because Lloyds refused to refund him for withdrawals which he said he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr B had a new contactless debit card on his Lloyds account. He used it on 8 February 2020 
to make an undisputed £3.75 transaction by chip and PIN. Lloyds website explains that 
The first time you use your contactless card for a transaction, youll need to enter your PIN. 
Once youve done that, all future transactions can be contactless. So this transaction meant 
that Mr Bs card was activated for contactless.
Mr B said that on 9 February, he was taking his son to a swimming lesson. He said he 
needed to activate his new card, so he went to a cash machine owned by another bank, and 
at 11.30 am made a balance enquiry. He then requested the return of his card, but the 
machine kept it. He waited about five minutes to see if the card would be returned, but it 
wasnt.  
The computer records of Mr Bs account show the balance enquiry, and then two 
withdrawals at the same machine, one for £200 and the other for £280. The balance enquiry 
is timed at 11:30:05, the first withdrawal at 11:30:17 and the second withdrawal at 11:30:58.
At 12.41, Mr B rang Lloyds. He said hed been to the machine to activate his card, but the 
machine had swallowed it. He asked for his card to be suspended until the Monday, so he 
could go to the bank to get it back. As part of the security checks, the Lloyds adviser asked 
Mr B about a previous transaction, and Mr B logged into his mobile banking while on the 
phone, in order to answer the question. In this call, Mr B didnt mention the two cash 
withdrawals which would have shown on his account. The Lloyds adviser said Mr B wouldnt 
be able to retrieve the card from the bank where the ATM was, and Lloyds would send him a 
replacement. So Lloyds cancelled Mr Bs debit card.
That evening at 9.16pm, there was a failed balance enquiry attempt on the cancelled card.
The next day, Mr B rang Lloyds at 10:22 am. He said hed just logged on and had seen 
withdrawals which he hadnt made. Mr B told Lloyds that there had been two people at the 
bus stop near the cash machine, but no-one was close enough to have been able to see him 
enter the PIN. Mr B also confirmed that no-one apart from him knew his PIN, and he hadnt 
written it down. Nor had he lent anyone his card. Lloyds said that this meant there was no 
point of compromise. Mr B asked for CCTV, and the adviser explained that Lloyds couldnt 
do this, and only the police could obtain this. Lloyds refused to refund him.
Mr B complained. In its final response letter, Lloyds said the withdrawals had been made 
using the genuine card and the correct PIN. And when any third party fraudster obtains a 
debit card, theyd normally withdraw as much as possible before the account holder finds out 
and cancels the card. This hadnt happened. Lloyds recommended that Mr B should ring the 
police, and it would co-operate with any police enquiries.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B had said that hed used the cash 
machine to activate the new card, but it was already active by 9 February. There hadnt been 
any other attempted withdrawals on the card after the two disputed transactions  although 
there was over £6,000 in Mr Bs account at the time. An unknown third party would be likely 
to have tried to get as much money as possible from the account. And the journal roll  the 
document about cash machine activity  showed that the machine was in regular use before 
and after the withdrawals. The investigator thought this meant it was unlikely a fraudster 
could have fitted a device to capture cards before Mr B used the machine, and then remove 
it with Mr Bs card after Mr B had left. So the investigator thought Mr B authorised the 
transactions himself.
Mr B didnt agree.  He said:
- he had used the card before, but for chip and PIN, not to set up the contactless 
facility;
- he was at his sons swimming lesson when the withdrawals took place;
- the investigator could have asked for CCTV;
- the investigator needed to understand that there was a daily limit, which was the only 
reason his account hadnt been emptied. He added that Lloyds had increased this 
daily limit without his consent, which he also wanted to complain about;
- the balance check which had been done on the account on the evening of 9 February 
was another attempt to withdraw money. 
The investigator explained that there had been no attempts to withdraw money after the 
disputed transactions.  And he said that as Mr B hadnt previously complained to Lloyds 
about his daily cash limit being increased, that wasnt something we could consider. 
Mr B replied that the investigator had repeatedly ignored his point about CCTV, and 
reviewing that would have shown he wasnt the person who made the withdrawals. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in February 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer evidence 
which shows that Mr Bs genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the 
disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. Here Mr B said he hadnt written down his PIN, or given his card to 
anyone else. So the next step is to consider whether it was Mr B, or a third party fraudster, 
who carried out the disputed withdrawals.Who authorised the withdrawals?
The computer records show that the balance enquiry which Mr B says he carried out at the 
cash machine on 9 February took place at 11:30:05. As Ive set out above, the first disputed 
transaction took place at 11:30:17 and the second at 11:30:58. This doesnt fit with what Mr 
B said about his card being retained after the 11:30:05 balance enquiry because of a card-
capture device, and Mr B waiting five minutes before leaving. All three took place within a 
minute. So this makes it very unlikely that different people carried out the cash withdrawals 
from the person who carried out the balance enquiry.
And apart from the question of how someone could have obtained Mr Bs card and used it 
twice more within a minute of his genuine balance enquiry, theres the question of how a 
fraudster could have known his PIN. There are around 10,000 possible combinations of a 
four-digit PIN, so its most unlikely a fraudster could have guessed and got it right first time 
(the computer would show any failed attempts, too). Ive seen a photo of the location and 
think its unlikely that people at the bus stop could have seen what PIN Mr B had entered at 
the cash machine, where hed have had his back to them. So there is no clear point of 
compromise where anyone could have obtained Mr Bs PIN.
Mr B has said that he repeatedly asked for CCTV. The cash machine wasnt owned by 
Lloyds, so it wouldnt have been possible for Lloyds to obtain this. Lloyds told Mr B that he 
could contact the police, in case the police wanted to pursue this. I accept that it wasnt 
within Lloyds power to obtain the CCTV. And after this length of time I think its inevitable 
any CCTV would have been deleted long ago. But in any case, CCTV almost never shows 
what people think it might. For example, its most unlikely it would have shown the card 
details on the keyboard and at the same time taken a recognisable photo of the person who 
used the machine and took away the cash. It often happens that we dont have all the 
evidence wed like, and when that happens I take my decision on the basis of what I think is 
most likely to have happened in all the circumstances of the case. 
Ive seen that when Mr B rang Lloyds at 12:41 to cancel his card, he didnt mention the two 
withdrawals. Ive listened to the phone call recordings, and these show Mr B logging onto 
mobile banking during the call, in order to answer Lloyds initial security questions. I find it 
very surprising that Mr B didnt raise the two withdrawals at that point  when he was on the 
phone to Lloyds and was logged on with the transactions showing in front of him. It wasnt 
until the next day that he rang to say he hadnt made the withdrawals.
Mr B also said that the reason he carried out the balance enquiry at 11:30 am on 9 February 
was because he needed to set up his new contactless card. But as Ive set out above, the 
Lloyds website says that after a new card has had the PIN entered, that will have set up the 
card for contactless use for all future transactions. So Mr Bs £3.75 chip and PIN transaction 
the previous day would have set up the new card for all future transactions, whether 
contactless or not. So there wasnt any need for him to have carried out a balance enquiry 
on 9 February for that purpose.
Computer records show when a withdrawal is attempted and refused, not just when 
withdrawals are successful. I consider that a fraudster would have tried to take more 
withdrawals than just the two at 11:30 am on 9 February. Mr B says this is because of the 
daily limit, but a fraudster wouldnt have known Mr Bs daily limit. And there were no 
attempted withdrawals the next day, either, before Mr B rang Lloyds to report the disputed 
transactions early in the afternoon. Computer records are different for attempted balance 
enquiries and attempted withdrawals, so I dont agree with Mr B that the 9:16pm attempted 
balance enquiry on 9 February was an attempted withdrawal.Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr B carried out 
the disputed transactions himself. So I dont require Lloyds to refund him.
Finally, as Mr B hadnt previously complained to Lloyds about the amount of his daily limit 
being increased, its not something I have the power to consider in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman