DRN-3270301
Complaint
Miss S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided her with an 
overdraft and a credit card.
Background
Miss S has also complained about having been provided with a personal loan. But weve 
already explained that were looking at that complaint separately.
HSBC provided Miss S with an overdraft with an agreed limit of £2,000.00 and a credit card 
with a limit of £1,500.00 in November 2019. In October 2020, Miss S complained that HSBC 
irresponsibly lent to her. HSBC didnt think that it had done anything wrong and so didnt 
uphold Miss S complaint. Miss S remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC shouldnt have 
provided the overdraft or the credit card. HSBC didnt agree with our investigator and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss S complaint.
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept this all in mind when having looked at Miss S complaint and having done so Im 
upholding it.
I know that there has been some discussion about the address history information Miss S 
provided HSBC with at the time of her applications and that HSBC appears to have placed 
significant weight on the third party data it received as a result. However, Im mindful that 
irrespective of any address information HSBC obtained from Miss S, its records nonetheless 
suggest that it refused to provide a current account with any lending facilities in 2018. 
HSBC refused to provide Miss S with a fully functioning current account at this stage 
because the information it obtained showed that Miss S had county court judgements and a 
significant amount of existing external debt. And so HSBC was only prepared to offer Miss S 
a basic account. I acknowledge that theres an argument for saying that this in itself was 
concerning and given the relatively short period of time until these applications enough to 
say that they should have been declined. But even if this these applications shouldnt have 
been automatically declined, I do think that the information HSBC already had about Miss S 
required extra care to be taken here.
And I think that if more care had been taken here, HSBC would have discovered that Miss S 
was already in a cycle of unsustainable debt. She owed significant amounts to mainstream, 
high-cost and payday lenders. Miss S was even in debt to friends and family too. Further 
enquiries would also have shown that the reason Miss S was in so much debt was because 
she was gambling excessive amounts that she simply couldnt afford. In these 
circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Miss S was in no position to repay what 
she owed, let alone take repay any further borrowing without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that HSBC shouldnt have provided Miss S with an 
overdraft or credit card in November 2019. In reaching my conclusions, Ive taken into 
account what HSBC has said about Miss S failure to provide all of her address history and 
not wanting to exclude her from accessing mainstream credit. But notwithstanding any 
issues with Miss S address history, Im satisfied that Miss S previous application history 
with HSBC was enough to warrant further enquiries here. And these enquires would more 
likely than not have shown that Miss S was in no position to repay any further credit, no 
matter who the lender was. And that HSBC shouldnt have lent to her.
So Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to provide Miss S with a substantial amount of 
additional credit in the circumstances it did meant that it increased Miss S indebtedness in a 
way that it ought to have realised was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
As this is the case, I think that HSBC treated Miss S unfairly. Miss S is being expected to 
pay additional interest and charges on credit she shouldnt have been provided with in the 
first place. So Im satisfied that she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it 
needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss S complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss S overdraft and credit card balances to ensure that all interest, 
fees and charges are removed; and
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft or credit card once these 
adjustments have been made HSBC should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Miss S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with 
HSBC to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to 
record negative information on Miss S credit file, it should backdate this to 
November 2017. OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance on Miss S overdraft or credit card, then any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until 
the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments 
have been made, then HSBC should remove any adverse information from    
Miss S credit file. 
AND
contacting Miss S and notifying her who has ownership of her account(s) in the 
event an outstanding balance, or balances, remain and HSBC has sold the 
balance(s) on to a third-party;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind HSBC of its obligation to exercise forbearance should outstanding balances 
remain after all adjustments have been made to Miss S accounts and its the case that she 
is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman