DRN-2340616
The complaint
Ms B complains about the repairs Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has 
undertaken following a claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
LV used a number of specialist agents to manage Ms Bs claim. References I make to the 
actions of those agents includes the actions of LV.
Ms Bs property is insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by LV. In April 2019 
she noticed problems with sewage coming up into her kitchen sink and washing machine 
when the household toilet was flushed. She reported it to LV and it sent an agent to 
investigate.
The investigation revealed the drains under the house had collapsed. LV proposed repair 
involved rerouting the drains under the floor void. Ms B enquired why the pipes couldnt be 
reinstated in their original position, under the concrete floor slab. She was concerned if the 
pipes werent underground, noise would be heard when they were in use. She was assured 
this wouldnt be the case.
Some weeks after the remedial works were completed, Ms B reported hearing noise from 
the pipework. LV looked at things but didnt think there was a problem. LV then sent another 
of its agents who changed a pipe bend, raised the pipes and surrounded them in loft 
insulation. 
Ms B said this still didnt fix the issue so LV sent out its agent with an independent surveyor 
to assess the problem. The surveyor concluded it wasnt practical to construct the 
replacement drain below the concrete floor slab as it would compromise the damp proofing. 
He therefore suggested a number of different options to address the problem.
The first of these was to re-route the drain outside the property but noted this would cause 
substantial work which might not be appropriate to address this problem. The second was to 
fit more robust sound insulation. In discussions with LVs agent it was concluded this was the 
most appropriate method. The way forward was agreed with Ms B but, once the work was 
completed, she said it didnt resolve the problem. LV declined to undertake any further work 
saying it had discharged its liability to Ms B.
Ms B remained unhappy and raised a complaint with this service. Our investigator said he 
thought LV should re-route the drain outside the house, in line with the first option detailed in 
the surveyors report and pay Ms B £200 for the inconvenience shed experienced. LV felt 
this was a disproportionate solution to the problem - but did offer £1,000 in lieu of any further 
works being undertaken - and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to determine how a complaint should be settled, 
quickly and informally. If I decide a consumer has suffered detriment due to the actions of a 
business, I would normally suggest a settlement that puts them back in the position they 
would have been in before, had that action or inaction not happened.
Is there noise from the pipework?
When LV explained to Ms B how it intended to first remedy the problem, she specifically 
asked whether she would experience noise from the pipework and she was told this wouldnt 
be an issue. So it seems Ms B had anticipated there may be a problem with the proposed 
solution. I also see from LVs notes it challenged the agent managing the claim, asking why 
it hadnt anticipated the problem.
Even after the remedial work was completed, it seems theres broad acknowledgement from 
the various parties involved that noise can be heard from the pipework under the kitchen 
floor when the toilet is flushed or the bathroom sink used. 
Wheres theres disagreement is how bad the noise is. When asked to state on a scale of 
severity, Ms B estimated the noise to be an eight out of ten. I acknowledge LV doesnt 
agree with this, stating the noise to be a minor problem. The issue here is that these 
judgements are subjective  whats loud for one person may not be loud for another.
Ive listened carefully to the various clips of video evidence provided by Ms B and Im 
satisfied there is an obviously audible noise of water and other matter travelling from the 
toilet through the pipework and at times apparently hitting against the pipe bend.
Ive kept in mind here that the noise is experienced in the kitchen, an area obviously 
associated with the preparation of food, and so I understand why the impact might be 
greater. 
LV did suggest in its complaint notes its possible the noise had always existed but its not 
presented evidence to support this or persuade me thats anything other than an unfounded 
speculation. So, taking into account the evidence I have and Ms Bs consistent testimony Im 
satisfied the problem is more likely than not a result of LVs attempts to remedy the initial 
problem.
Has LV done enough to alleviate the problem? 
When undertaking repairs, an insurer is expected to make them effective and lasting. The 
independent surveyor suggested a number of ways to address the problem. LVs chosen 
option was undertaken and has not proved effective as Ive described above. So, I think LV 
needs to do more to resolve the issue given the impact its having on Ms B. 
There were two remaining options, the first of which he discounted as being impractical as it 
would have a significant impact on the integrity of the damp proofing of the house and would 
involve structural work and Ms B in considerable upheaval.
The last option was to re-route the drainage from the bathroom out of the property and into 
the main drain in the garden. LV was not keen on this solution as it considered it 
disproportionate to what it saw as a minor problem. But as Ive explained above, Im satisfied 
this isnt a minor problem for Ms B and shes only experiencing it as a consequence of the 
work LV has undertaken to remedy the initial problem. So I think LV should arrange for this work to be undertaken in line with the quote and 
statement of works it received from one of its agents. There is some question about whether 
Ms B wants to pursue this option. That is, of course, a matter for her to decide on. But I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable way for LV to settle the complaint if Ms B does 
decide to accept my decision.
If Ms B accepts the final decision, I would expect LV to explain clearly to her what the works 
will entail and the likely timescales involved. 
Trouble and upset
LV hasnt resolved the issue yet and thats caused Ms B inconvenience, but I have born in 
mind the attempts its made to remedy the problems were recommended by an independent 
surveyor so I dont think LV was inherently wrong in adopting one of the surveyors proposed 
solutions. That said, I can see how Ms B has been inconvenienced by LVs actions.
LV has apologised to Ms B for the trouble and upset it caused her and offered to pay her 
£200 by way of compensation. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for all that happened up to the point LV issued its final response letter.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Re-route the pipework from the bathroom out of the property in line with the 
statement of works and quote from its agents
Pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset it caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman