DRN-4287941
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, transferred the contents 
of his ISA to another provider without his knowledge or permission.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr S instructed an ISA transfer from Virgin to another provider (the 
recipient bank). But while his money did leave his Virgin account, it didnt reach the recipient 
bank. This led to the transferred funds being recalled by Virgin several weeks later, after 
which Mr S abandoned the ISA transfer and moved a portion of the money from his Virgin 
ISA account to a non-ISA savings account.
Shortly afterwards, Mr S discovered that Virgin had transferred the money that remained in 
his ISA as an ISA transfer to the recipient bank. Mr S wasnt happy about this as he hadnt 
requested such a transfer and felt hed made it clear to Virgin that he didnt want the ISA 
transfer to the recipient bank to go ahead. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin responded to Mr S and apologised for what had happened. They noted that the 
recipient bank had submitted a new transfer request, and because the request had been 
submitted electronically, it had been processed by Virgin automatically. Virgin accepted that 
they could have placed a block on Mr Ss ISA, given what had happened previously. 
To put things right, Virgin arranged for the incorrectly transferred amount to be returned to 
the Virgin ISA account. And Virgin also offered to allow Mr S to return the money hed 
transferred out of his ISA back into the ISA on a similar basis, so that it would be as if it had 
never been transferred out. Finally, Virgin offered to make a payment of £300 to Mr S as 
compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred. 
Mr S didnt accept Virgins offer to return the money hed moved out of his ISA back into his 
ISA. And after the incorrectly transferred money was returned to his Virgin ISA, Mr S took 
that money out of the ISA account also. Finally, Mr S didnt feel Virgins compensation offer 
of £300 went far enough, given the time and effort hed expended on this matter and given 
that his money had now lost its ISA tax status. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response to Mr Ss 
complaint issued by Virgin already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr S for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr S and Virgin. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Virgin have acknowledged that, following the abandonment of the initial ISA transfer request, 
they received a new ISA transfer request from the recipient bank electronically. And, 
because Virgin process electronically received transfers automatically, it was for this reason 
that this second ISA transfer request was acted upon by Virgin.
Virgin have also acknowledged that, given the difficulties that Mr S experienced with his 
initial ISA transfer request, including that hed ultimately abandoned that request, they 
should have placed a block on Mr Ss account which would have prevented what happened. 
Where a business has accepted it made a mistake, as Virgin have here, it would generally 
be expected by this service that the business would act to return the complainant to the 
position they should be in, as much as reasonably possible, had the mistake never occurred.
In this instance, I think that Virgin did that here. I say this because the offers that Virgin 
made to Mr S  including the offer to return the money that Mr S had transferred out of his 
ISA back into his ISA, so that the ISA tax status of that money was restored  would have 
put Mr S back into the financial position he should have been in, with the full original balance 
of his ISA being restored.
Mr S chose not to accept Virgins offer, and I note that in his letter to Virgin in which he 
declined the offer, Mr S explained:
Regarding the opening of my old ISA account to allow the return of the £87,023.75 
Virgin sent to [the recipient bank] in error, I have decided not to put it back into the 
ISA account Also, I would not be interested in the potential return of the £70,000 
amount to this ISA account before the end of the year to retain its tax-free status. I 
am happy for the Virgin ISA account  to be closed.
The reason for this is that I no longer feel confident with this account after [the 
recipient bank] were able to access this account and transfer money out of it  
without my permission or knowledge I would simply not want to risk this happening 
again. 
Following the return of the incorrectly transferred money to the Virgin ISA, Mr S withdrew 
that money from his ISA by cheque. And Mr S has explained to this service that he didnt 
want to transfer the already withdrawn money back into his ISA, as Virgin offered, because 
he didnt want to break any rules, and he feels that the fact that the full balance of his ISA 
account has now lost its ISA tax status hasnt fairly been considered.But Mr S made no mention of a fear of breaking the rules in his letter to Virgin quoted above, 
and instead explained that it was a lack of confidence with Virgin that was the motivation to 
his decision not to accept Virgins offer in that regard. 
As such, given that Virgin had made an offer to Mr S that I feel was fair and reasonable and 
which would have resulted in the full balance of the ISA being restored so that it benefited 
from the ISA tax status, I dont feel Virgin should fairly be considered accountable for Mr Ss 
money losing its ISA tax status as Mr S suggests. 
Rather, I feel that it was Mr Ss decision to withdraw the money from his ISA that led to the 
loss of the ISA tax status. And I feel that if Mr S had lost his confidence with Virgin, he could 
have restored the full balance of the ISA and then transferred that full balance to another ISA 
provider of his choosing, which would have retained the ISA tax status of his money. 
Virgin explained to Mr S that their offers regarding the ISA balance as explained above were 
time sensitive and needed to be accepted before the end of that tax year. That date has now 
passed, and so I wont be instructing Virgin to take any further action in this regard. 
Finally, Virgin offered to make a payment of £300 to Mr S, as compensation for any trouble 
and upset he may have incurred surrounding this matter. Mr S rejected this offer of 
compensation. However, while I accept that matters of compensation can be subjective, I do 
feel that the £300 compensation amount offered by Virgin here was fair, given the full 
circumstances of what happened. And I can confirm that its commensurate with what I may 
have instructed Virgin to pay, had they not already offered to do so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact of these events on Mr S, as hes 
described them, including that he had to make several branch visits when trying to resolve 
this matter. But Ive also considered that Virgin processed to transfer having received a new 
request to do so from the recipient bank, as well as the reasonable offers made to Mr S by 
Virgin as previously discussed. And Ive also thought about the general framework this 
service uses when assessing compensation amounts for upset and inconvenience  details 
of which are on this services website. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour, Ill only be 
doing so to compel Virgin to make the £300 compensation payment theyve already offered 
to pay  should Mr S accept this final decision. And I wont be instructing Virgin to take any 
further action beyond this point.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Virgin must make a payment of £300 to Mr S
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman