DRN-3188355
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice he was given by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 
1997 to invest £10,000 into a Flexible Investment Bond (FIB).
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (CMC) and it says the 
recommendation was unsuitable because of the proportion of assets invested, the inflexibility 
of Mr Ds capital being tied up for five years with penalties for withdrawals and his lack of 
pension provision. It also notes that the product charges on the FIB reduced the potential 
growth.
What happened
Mr D met with an adviser from NatWest on two occasions in 1997. NatWest recommended
that he invest £10,000 into a Flexible Investment Bond invested in the Guaranteed
Investment Fund.
The money remained invested until 2002 when the investment matured, and Mr D received
his original investment of £10,000 with no additional return.
In 2020 a CMC, acting on behalf of Mr D, complained to NatWest about the
recommendation. It said the investment represented too large a proportion of Mr Ds
savings. The CMC said the product was inflexible as Mr D had to tie up his money for five
years or sustain penalties for withdrawals. It said the availability of work for Mr D was
inconsistent and uncertain. So, if he was unable to find work for a period of time then he 
would need free and convenient access to his cash. The CMC said Mr D shouldnt have 
been advised to tie up this level of capital for such a long period of time.
The CMC also said Mr Ds circumstances were such that he couldnt take the risk of making
no return on his capital and that the charges on the product significantly impacted the
potential growth. It said the impact of the charges and the way the bond worked werent
properly explained to Mr D. The CMC said Mr D should have been recommended a fixed
rate bond instead which had an interest rate of about 7% without the risk of no return.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and said it had been brought out of time as the
product had been surrendered in 2002. Mr D referred his complaint to our service and our
investigator concluded that the complaint had been brought in time. NatWest accepted the
investigators view on that point, so she went on to consider the merits of the complaint.
The CMC reiterated the points it had made about the suitability of the recommendation.
NatWest disagreed and pointed out that Mr D had met with its adviser on two occasions. So,
it said Mr D had been given the opportunity to consider his options and whether he wished
to proceed. NatWest also said Mr D had a number of existing investments including an
endowment plan, a PEP, a TESSA, two investment bonds (one of which was a FIB) and
some shares. NatWest said this demonstrated that Mr D was an experienced investor. It
also said the documentation from the time indicated he wanted to invest in the stock market
without any limit on the return he could achieve.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint. She took into account Mr Ds circumstances
at the time; the instability of his employment, his lack of pension provision, the fact he didnt
own a property and that he had to provide for his child. The investigator noted Mr Ds other
investments and acknowledged he had some investment experience. But the investigator
didnt think Mr D had the capacity to take the risk of receiving no return on his capital. She
noted that while the flexible investment fund had the potential for a higher return, this was
not guaranteed and so she felt this was too risky for Mr D.
NatWest disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said that Mr D was an experienced
investor who had previously taken out a FIB with NatWest. It reiterated that the bond was
low risk as the capital was protected. NatWest said that Mr D had indicated he wanted to
invest without a limit on the return and other options had been discussed but Mr D preferred
the stock market as the best way to achieve his objectives.
The investigator still remained of the view that the recommendation was unsuitable taking
into account Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. She reiterated that she considered Mr Ds
circumstances were such that he couldnt take the risk that his money wouldnt grow at least
with the pace of inflation. The investigator said compensation should be calculated by 
comparing the performance of the FIB with the five-year fixed rate bond that was available at 
that time.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I provisionally concluded that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld as I didnt consider the plan 
to be suitable for him given his circumstances and objectives. However, I took a different 
view from the investigator in respect of the way compensation should be calculated, as I 
wasnt persuaded that Mr D was in a position to take out an investment with a five-year term. 
So, I provisionally concluded that compensation should be based on a comparison between 
the performance of Mr Ds plan and the average rate for fixed rate bonds over the same 
period of time. 
The parties then had an opportunity to respond with any further representations they wished 
to make. Both parties acknowledged my provisional decision and indicated they did not wish 
to make any further representations.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D met with a NatWest adviser on two occasions in 1997. A fact find and suitability letter
recorded his circumstances at the time. Mr D was in his late fifties and planning to retire in
five years. He was working by way of short-term contracts, so his employment wasnt very
stable. Mr D gave an estimate to the adviser of what he expected to earn if he worked all
year alluding to the fact his work wasnt guaranteed. His estimated income was £35,000 plus
lodging allowance. He also had a dependent child to provide for.Mr D had just received a sum of £26,000 from the sale of his property. He had a small
pension and some investments, as well as around £6,000 in savings.
At the time of sale Mr D held an endowment plan with an expected maturity value of
£15,000, two investment bonds valued at £5,500 each, a PEP worth £3,000, a TESSA
worth around £6,100 and about £2,500 in shares in large well-known utility companies.
It was also recorded that Mr D was paying £20 per month into the endowment plan which he
been paying since 1993 and that the plan was due to mature in 2003.
I think it is fair to say therefore that Mr D had some investment experience, but I cant see
that he had made a lump sum investment of this size before. I also dont think the amount,
nature, or variety of the shares he held indicated he had significant investment experience. I
note that his representative has said Mr D had taken out shares when the government had
privatised national companies.
I also note Mr D was only five years from his intended retirement date but had little in the
way of pension provision. So, the adviser identified that pension provision was an important
objective and Mr D agreed with that recommendation. Accordingly, a sum of around £16,000
was ear-marked to be invested in a pension in the near future.
I consider that left Mr D with only a limited amount of easily accessible funds. A significant
proportion of his funds were tied up in products that were yet to mature or had tax-benefits.
Added to this Mr D was intending to retire in a few years, his income wasnt secure, he didnt
own a property and he had to provide for his child.
I note that the sales documentation recorded that Mr D likes the idea of investing in the
stock market with an underlying guarantee, but did not want a cap on potential benefits. It
also recorded that other options, such as savings accounts, had been discussed with Mr D
but he preferred the FIB.
But I am not persuaded considering Mr Ds circumstances at that time that he was in a
position to tie up £10,000 for a five-year term with the risk of no return. Mr D already had a
significant proportion of his assets at risk and he was approaching retirement with a
relatively unstable financial position. I think it is fair to consider the sum referred to in the
sales documentation as ear-marked for a pension because I consider that was an important
objective given his impending retirement. So, looking at his situation overall, I dont consider
Mr D was in a position to increase the proportion of his assets at risk and that includes the
risk of no return posed by the investment recommended.
I note the FIB was invested in a unit-linked fund but it came with a capital guarantee at five
years. However, if Mr D withdrew any money before that date, he would lose the guarantee.
I also note there was a charge for providing that capital guarantee which was deducted at
the beginning from the amount being invested.
So, overall, I am not persuaded that the recommendation to invest in the FIB was suitable for
Mr D taking into account his circumstances and objectives.
However, I dont agree with the CMC that fair compensation would be to compare the
performance of the FIB with a five- year fixed rate bond with a rate of 7.25 percent that was
available at that time.I consider Mr D was looking to invest £10,000 but given his circumstances, he was only
really in a position to make consecutive short-term investments; for instance, one-year fixed
rate bonds. This would have provided Mr D with more flexibility so that if his income reduced
and he needed to dip into his savings his capital would still be relatively accessible. In
addition, if he had been forced to access the capital, he would only have perhaps lost a few
months interest. As he was able to keep his capital invested, I think it more likely than not he
would have made another subsequent short-term investment.
So, I think NatWest should calculate compensation as set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr D 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must NatWest do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, NatWest must:
  Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
  NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Flexible 
Investment 
BondNo longer 
existsAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if NatWest totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr D wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr D would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
 The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, 
simple format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman