DRN-2906134
The complaint
 Mrs S, who is represented by her husband Mr S, complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited 
refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs S acquired a second-hand car costing £4,480 funded by a deposit of £500 
and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. Mrs S also purchased warranty cover. It 
was some eight years old and had covered 73,510 miles.
Mrs S encountered a number of problems as set out below and there was also an issue with 
the sunroof and the motor was replaced by the dealer.
The report sent to the independent engineer lists the following:
25/06/2019 - Offside rear of car making rubbing/grinding noise - (Mileage recorded 
as zero)
17/07/2019 - Investigated issue with electrical fault and clutch (77,216 miles)
04/11/2019 - Stop/start function working intermittently, Investigated, Working at time 
of check. Investigated rubbing noise coming from offside rear wheel. Both front 
lower suspension arm bushes split, Replaced front lower suspension arms. No 
noise from rear suspension (80,060 miles)
19/11/19 - Tracking/alignment out. Found to be rusted perished. Found nearside rear 
drop link has play, Replaced the drop link. Unseized components to carry out wheel 
alignment. Front under tray missing possible not fully fitted after exhaust fitment. 
Refitted all front wheel arches. (82,064 Miles)
The first inspection was carried out on 13 December 2019, but as there was no oil in the 
engine it couldnt be driven. The oil cap had blown off. He thought the car had been fitted 
with an after-market induction kit and the offside CV boot was leaking oil subjecting the 
suspension components to CV grease. It noted the clutch pedal was stiff and he 
recommended the car be taken to a mechanic for repairs. He concluded that on the balance 
of probability the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. The mileage was 83,428.
The second inspection took place on 6 January 2020 and the inspector noted the clutch had 
completely failed, the undertray had snapped and the rear exhaust was hanging free.
However, he concluded on the balance of probability that the faults would not have been 
developing at the point of sale since the car had covered 11,500 miles. It was noted the car 
had covered 1,500 miles since the previous inspection.
Mr S has provided details of other work carried out on the car:
6/09/19 Replaced brake pads and discs. Found a defective bush on lower control arm. 
Heavily corroded control arm and coil springs showing signs of corrosion. Minor corrosion on 
underbody.
31/1/20 Diagnostic of clutch, no fault with master cylinder. Suspected fault with slave 
cylinder/clutch kit. Replaced clutch kit, concentric salve, dual mass flywheel (85,068 miles)
18/3/20 MOT passed, lightbulb fitted. (85,101 miles)
11/6/20 Renewed intercooler and turbo feed and return oil pipes. Noted that an incorrect 
exhaust downpipe fitted and no cat in exhaust and 2nd oxygen sensor not fitted. (Miles 
87,446)
12/6/20 Turbo replaced (Miles 87,446)
17/6/20 Eroded spark plugs due to oil burning (87,751 miles) 23/6/20 Misfire in cylinder 4, 
renewed coil pack fitted (88,054 miles) 13/10/20 Aircon re-gas
13/10/20 Engine failure  2nd hand engine. (88,298 miles)
Mrs S complained to MotoNovo and having reviewed the two inspection reports it issued a 
rejection letter on 13 January 2020. Mrs S brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted Mrs S reported a rubbing noise the day after acquisition. The dealer couldnt find 
any faults initially, but in November, it identified that the cause of the noise was the 
suspension and repaired this. He said Mrs S had covered some 6,550 miles. By January 
2020, after driving 11,550 miles, the clutch had failed. He thought the initial concerns 
reported by Mrs S didnt affect the vehicles roadworthiness and they only deteriorated 
through further use.
He said the car had passed its MOT in March 2019 and had passed a 128-point AA 
inspection shortly before sale. On top of that the two independent inspections had concluded 
that the car was unlikely to have been faulty at the point of sale. He concluded there were no 
grounds that would allow him to say the car was in an unacceptable condition at the point of 
sale.
Mr S didnt agree and said he had made repeated complaints to the dealer. He also said it 
hadnt carried out the repairs to the suspension. It had kept the car for several months while 
the sunroof was being repaired.
I issued an initial provisional decision as follows:
I said that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I had given this complaint considerable thought and while I explained I was usually reluctant 
to go against the findings of two independent inspections, I had concerns that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable.
I recognised that it was relatively elderly and had covered an average mileage, but I thought 
that it reasonable to expect it to have lasted longer than it had. It had suffered from a 
catalogue of faults from the sunroof, to the clutch and then the engine failure. Even though it 
was elderly I thought that it should not have suffered from such a long list of faults. I 
gathered some of these had been repaired and covered by the warranty, but I also gathered 
Mrs S had paid out a significant amount to keep the car on the road.
On the issue of the car being driven between the two inspections Mr S says he was told that 
once the oil had been replaced it would be ok to drive. As such, I didnt consider that the 
miles covered were necessarily detrimental to the state of the car. Mr S had pointed out that 
the car had problems from the outset and he was in regular contact with the dealer trying to 
get it fully repaired. I could see that various repairs were carried out in the first six months, 
but the car continued to have an ever-increasing list of major issues.
I was also concerned that an incorrect exhaust downpipe was fitted and there was no cat in 
exhaust and a 2nd oxygen sensor wasnt fitted. These issues would suggest that the car 
wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. These are essential items and should have been 
present and in working order at the time it was sold.
I also gathered the tracking which was dealt with by the dealer in November 2018 had to be 
redone by another garage. While this was not a significant matter, I said I considered it 
reflected the saga Mrs S had gone through with the car.
I could see that Mrs S was able to drive the car for some 15,000 miles and even though I 
consider rejection to be merited I believe none of the monthly payments should be returned. 
This would reflect the use she has been able to make of it. However, I considered her 
deposit should be refunded and the car taken back.
MotoNovo did not respond to the decision. Mr S said he appreciated the decision to uphold 
the complaint, but felt the redress was insufficient. He said the agreement was close to the 
end and his wife had spent £6,300 for four months driving. He suggested various options for 
redress.
I issued a second provisional decision as follows:
I said I had reviewed the file again and I could see that Mrs S had been without car for a 
significant period of time. However, given she covered at least 15,000 miles I considered she 
had had a degree of use. I believed the car had been laid up for some months and noted it 
no longer had a valid MOT. I was also aware that she had incurred repair costs, but some of 
those matters related to wear and tear items and rather than seek to identify which relate to 
any inherent defects I concluded that a refund of part of the monthly payments was a better solution.
I considered rejection to be the most equitable outcome and after due consideration I 
concluded that MotoNovo should refund 20% of the monthly payments along with the 
deposit.
I added that Mr S has said his wife could have handed the car back after she had made half 
the payments due, but she had not been informed of this. MotoNovo was not obliged to 
notify Mrs S when this option arose and, in that regard, I explained that I could not say it had 
done anything wrong.
MotoNovo responded to say that it was concerned about the delays as it had heard nothing 
since it issued its final response letter. I arranged for it to receive copies of correspondence 
on this complaint which included exchanges with this service including the original view letter 
and my earlier provisional decision to which it had not responded.
It said that two independent inspections had concluded the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. It thought that new issues noted by the second inspector would have arisen 
after the point of sale. It accepted that the car had required a number of expensive repairs 
but there was no evidence as to what had caused these faults. 
It said that if the incorrect exhaust downpipe had been fitted and there was no cat in exhaust 
and 2nd oxygen sensor it thought this would have come to light much earlier. It said that we 
needed to consider if the car had been properly serviced and maintained as well as the 
driving style of Mrs S. 
It took the view that my provisional decision had been based, in part, on evidence of repairs 
which it had not seen. Details of these repairs were sent to MotoNovo for comment, but it 
has not responded. 
Mr S said that his wife had finished paying for the car and it had been vandalised while it 
was awaiting collection. He asked that it be taken away as soon as possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I do not consider I have been given reason to change my second provisional decision and 
so it stands.
I appreciate the concerns expressed by MotoNovo though it would have been helpful if it had 
responded to the various communications sent by this service. In particular it has not 
commented further on the various repairs made to the car which it thought had swayed me. 
As I explained in my original provisional decision that I was reluctant to go against the views 
expressed by two independent experts, but the list of faults was so long that I had grave 
concerns about the fitness of the car.
One of the requirements of consumer law as set out above is durability. The car was 
relatively elderly and had covered 73,510 miles, but the list of issues is so long that I cannot 
say that it meets the durability requirement. Even though Mrs S had been able to make use 
of it I cannot say that it was of an acceptable standard. She as paid for a car that wasnt 
satisfactory and I consider returning her deposit and 20% of her payments recognises the 
failings of the car while at the same time ensuring she has made a fair contribution for her use of it.
I will not repeat the points made in my previous two decisions save to say I consider they still 
stand despite the response from MotoNovo. The faults were too numerous to conclude the 
car was fit for purpose. As for its use by Mrs S I have seen no evidence of poor maintenance 
or driving style. The range of faults is so wide as to allow me to discount either explanation 
as unlikely. This leaves me with my original conclusion that the car wasnt fit for purpose.
Putting things right
 Mrs S should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
collect the car at no cost to Mrs S, refund her deposit and 20% of each monthly payment 
plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date paid until the date repaid. 
If there have been any adverse markers placed on Mrs Ss credit file these should be 
removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman