DRN-2064587
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. Ms R 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms R has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Ms R says she was told she should buy the PPI to get the card. I dont know exactly what 
was said, but the form, which Ms R signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and its been 
ticked to confirm she wanted the PPI. Mrs R signed separately next to this tick to confirm she 
was buying the PPI. The form says if you want this insurance  so I think it would have 
been clear she didnt have to buy it.
Ms R says the PPI wasnt explained properly. It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the 
PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Rs individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Ms R to decide whether it 
was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Ms R clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Ms R. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. 
But given Ms Rs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ms R says she was already struggling financially when she got the card and didnt want the 
extra burden of making the PPI payments. But I do have to take into account that Ms R was 
going to borrow money on the card that would have to be repaid  and there was no 
obligation for her to get the card. I think it likely shed have said no to the PPI (and possibly 
the card) if she didnt think she could afford both.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman