DRN-2273067
The complaint
Mrs P is representing the estate of the late Mr P. Shes complaining about Countrywide 
Assured Plc because it declined to pay the terminal illness benefit on Mr Ps life insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2001, Mr P took out a level term life insurance policy providing cover of £100,000 for a 
term of 18 years. I understand the policy was set up in trust with Mrs P as the trustee. 
The policy included terminal illness benefit, which was designed to pay the death benefit 
early if Mr P was diagnosed with less than 12 months to live.
Unfortunately, Mr P was diagnosed with a serious illness in 2006. At that time, Mrs P 
says he was told he had only six months to live. She says they didnt realise the policy 
included terminal illness benefit and thought it only paid out after death had occurred. But 
she says Mr P called the insurer to tell it about his diagnosis in 2006. She says he did this 
in the hope it would start the process of claiming and make things easier for his family 
after he passed. She says he wasnt told about the terminal illness benefit at the time, so 
a formal claim wasnt made.
In 2019, as the policy was approaching its end date, Mrs P says she contacted the 
insurer as she was hoping to extend the policy but was told this wasnt possible. This is 
when she says she became aware of the terminal illness benefit.
When Mrs P tried to claim the terminal illness benefit based on Mr Ps diagnosis in 2006, 
Countrywide declined to pay out. It referred to clauses in the policy terms that require 
claims to be notified within three months of diagnosis and more than 18 months before 
the policy end date. It also said it had no record of Mr P contacting it about his diagnosis 
previously.
Mrs P then referred a complaint to us. Sadly, Mr P passed away shortly after this.
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. A copy is attached. Neither party had any further comment to make and Countrywide 
told us it was contacting Mrs P to obtain the information it needs.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything to add to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent 
changed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Countrywide Assured Plc to 
retrospectively consider a terminal illness claim on the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman