DRN-4438686
The complaint
Miss L complains about the way U K Insurance, trading as NIG, handled a claim she made 
under a buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to NIG includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Miss L made a claim for subsidence in 2017. NIG accepted it and appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle it. In summary, they thought the problem had been caused by 
leaking drains and these were repaired. After monitoring the property for movement, 
the loss adjuster said it was stable and building repairs could be carried out.
Building repairs began but problems arose, and the work wasnt completed. Further 
drain repairs were carried out and discussions were had about how to settle the claim 
fairly. But the claim is yet to be fully settled.
Miss L has made a number of complaints about the way the claim has been handled. 
She complained again in July 2022, which NIG responded to in November 2022, and 
referred that complaint to this Service for investigation.
Ill set out the main complaint points and the position of both parties:
oNIG has offered to settle the outstanding repairs by making a cash payment. 
Miss L doesnt think its fair for NIG to settle the claim this way and has also 
disputed the amount offered. NIG said it would make the payment, as it 
thought the amount was reasonable. But it invited Miss L to let it know if she 
couldnt get the work done for that amount.
oMiss L says water pours down the bathroom wall when it rains. NIG agreed to 
cover the cost of repairing the lead flashing to the roof, but not a roof 
inspection or any damp proofing at a lower level. Miss L said it had previously 
agreed to a roof inspection and thats needed to understand the damage.
oMiss L says her boiler stopped working due to the actions of NIGs builder, so 
she bought a replacement. NIG didnt agree to pay. It said there was no 
evidence the builder had damaged the boiler, or that it needed replacing.
oMiss L said her contents insurance premiums, with another insurer, had 
increased as a result of the ongoing claim. NIG said it wasnt responsible for 
the premium charged by other insurers.
oNIG said it had stabilised the property. Miss L said cracks had reappeared 
and monitoring hadnt been carried out after the further drain repairs, so there 
was no evidence to show stability. Because NIG hadnt sent her a recent site 
investigation report, and given her concerns about the drain repairs, she paid 
£800 for a structural survey. It confirmed the property was stable, but Miss L 
thought the cost should be reimbursed as NIG hadnt evidenced its opinion 
about stability.
oNIG accepted there had been further delays since its previous complaint 
response in April 2022. It paid £750 compensation for the emotional impact 
and £585 of interest for the financial impact. Miss L didnt think this went far 
enough to put things right.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. He said it was 
reasonable for NIG to cash settle the claim, but it should include the hallway repairs. 
And it should pay a further £250 compensation for poor communication. Other than 
these points, he thought NIG had acted fairly.
NIG didnt comment and Miss L disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
In the meantime, NIG provided another complaint response in May 2023. It 
commented on some of the complaint points above, giving more information about 
the actions it took, as well as paying a further £300 compensation. As a result, Im 
going to extend the scope of this complaint to include the May 2023 response. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues to consider, so Ill set each one out separately.
Cash settlement
The buildings section of the policy says NIG will pay  the amount of the damage 
 or, at our own option, reinstate. So I think its clear the choice of how to settle the 
claim is NIGs and that can include making a payment for the damage.
I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to cash settle for structural work though, unless 
the policyholder wanted it to, given the significant consequences if that work went 
wrong. Here NIG says all of the structural work has already been completed. I 
havent seen any evidence to the contrary, so I accept that.
Whilst Miss L may prefer NIG to arrange for the outstanding work to be completed, its 
entitled under the policy to cash settle. The remaining work isnt structural. And given 
the significant delays and disputes that have arisen since work began, I dont think 
its unreasonable for NIG to settle the outstanding work in this way.
NIG set out its cash settlement offer for crazy paving, external decorating, lead 
flashing, and uplifts for the previously paid porch and bathroom repairs settlements.
I understand Miss L agreed with the figure for external decorating. I havent seen any 
evidence, such as quotes from Miss L, to suggest the other parts of the offer were 
unreasonable. Our investigator asked NIG to also pay for the hallway repair cost. It didnt challenge that, so I assume its prepared to do so.
Overall, Im satisfied its fair for NIG to cash settle the outstanding work. The offer it 
made in the November 2022 complaint response was reasonable at that time for 
those outstanding works and the hallway repair should be added.
Bathroom
Miss L says water pours down the bathroom wall when it rains, in part due to a crack 
in the wall. NIG said it thought there was a problem with the lead flashing on the roof 
and agreed to pay for its repair. Miss L questioned how it had assessed this as the 
cause of the water ingress. She also said it had previously agreed to pay for a roof 
inspection, so she thought thats what it should do in order to fully understand the 
cause of the problem.
More recently, NIG has said a visual assessment of the roof had been carried out, 
but no report was created. I understand this is what led NIG to offer to pay for the 
lead flashing repair. Miss L says the roof was viewed from ground level, so she 
doesnt consider this visual assessment amounted to a roof inspection.
NIG said there was also an issue with the damp proofing of the bathroom. It said this 
was unrelated to the subsidence problem, so it wouldnt pay to put it right. I 
understand Miss L accepts this. But she said the damp proofing couldnt be the 
cause of the water problem because the crack is too far up the wall. And she says 
the repair of the crack should be covered because NIG had already part repaired it.
The latest schedule of work includes an item to inspect roof and report back. Im not 
satisfied the visual assessment, which didnt include a report, fulfils this item. So, NIG 
should arrange for a roof inspection, with a report, to be carried out. That should 
include comment on any roof damage and its cause. Any damage that was likely 
caused by subsidence should be included in the cash settlement, if its not already 
been taken into account. If the inspection finds damage not caused by subsidence  
but caused in another way covered by the policy  Miss L will be entitled to make a 
new claim for that damage. Unless thats found, I dont see the need for a new claim.
The schedule includes crack repair to the bathroom, which was cash settled prior to 
the current complaints, so I cant consider it. NIG said the cash settled repairs were 
sufficient to deal with the crack Miss L has mentioned. Whilst I cant look into it, I 
include it here to clarify that its previously been considered and included.
Boiler
Given work was carried out to services and pipework in the bathroom, it seems likely 
the builder would have switched off the boiler in order to carry out the work. However, 
it seems unlikely that switching off the boiler would damage it  and very unlikely that 
any such damage would necessitate its replacement.
I havent seen any evidence from Miss L, such as an engineers report, to explain 
how the builder was responsible for any damage to the boiler  or why that 
necessitated its replacement. Shes provided an invoice but that only sets out the 
work that was done without any further explanation.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair for me to require NIG to pay 
for the replacement boiler based on the available evidence.I understand Miss L first asked the loss adjuster about the boiler in September 2020 
 but didnt receive a response. Shes questioned why she wasnt told then what she 
needed to do in order to make her case about the boiler replacement. Its only more 
recently she was told she needed to get an engineers report or similar. Naturally that 
will be more difficult to do with the passage of time. Ill bear this in mind when 
thinking about a fair level of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Contents insurance
As NIG explained, its not responsible for what information another insurer may take 
into account when setting a premium  or what premium it may charge.
However, if NIG had made an error or acted unfairly and that had increased Miss Ls 
contents premium over and above what she should have paid, I may find it fair for 
NIG to pay for that increase.
Most insurers will take into account the claims history when setting a premium. And 
Miss L has made a claim. So any increase to her contents premium simply from 
having made a claim isnt something I can hold NIG responsible for.
Its accepted the buildings claim has been subject to delays caused by NIG. So, if 
Miss Ls contents premium has increased more than it otherwise would have done 
because the buildings claim has remained unsettled for longer than it ought to have 
been, I might expect NIG to pay for that increase. But Miss L would need to provide 
evidence that was the case  including how much that increase had cost her. Shes 
entitled to explore that if she wishes. But as it stands, I wont be requiring NIG to pay 
anything towards her contents premiums.
Stability
I understand drain repairs were carried out early in the claim. Miss L wasnt 
convinced the property had been stabilised and asked for further investigation to be 
carried out. NIG didnt agree but eventually, after building repairs began, it accepted 
there were further drain problems that needed to be repaired. It carried that work out.
The loss adjuster had carried out monitoring and said the property was stable prior to 
starting building repairs. Monitoring ended and some time later the further drain 
repairs were carried out. No further monitoring was carried out after that.
Miss L asked for a copy of the soil investigation report from October 2021. NIG said 
that wasnt something that was generated / created, instead it is standard practice 
on subsidence claims to monitor the property for movement once the cause of 
subsidence has been resolved. NIG later said there was no report, the investigation 
was primarily to confirm readings regarding the movement of the property. Miss L 
questioned this because monitoring hadnt taken place since the latest drainage 
repairs. And she said cracks had reappeared after the monitoring had ceased.
NIGs position is confusing. In my experience, an investigation into the ground 
conditions will show things like foundation depth, soil type, and whether the soil has 
been impacted by tree roots or drain leaks. Its commonplace for a report to 
accompany this as an objective record of what was found. Or theres monitoring, 
which involves taking readings from points on the building. Its not clear why NIG 
seems to have conflated the two. And it spoke of monitoring to ensure stability, despite ending the monitoring long before further drain repairs were carried out.
So I can understand why Miss L found this unhelpful  and why she turned to a 
surveyor to understand whether her property had indeed stabilised. Its not always 
necessary to monitor to ensure stability in a subsidence claim. Particularly where the 
problem has been caused by a drain leak, in the majority of cases repairing the leak 
and giving the soil time to recover will provide for stability without needing to confirm 
that through monitoring. But here, where Miss L was concerned about ongoing 
damage and further drain repairs had to be carried out after building repair had 
begun, I can understand why she sought reassurance the property was stable before 
continuing with repairs. I dont think NIGs position provided such reassurance.
In contrast, the surveyors report thoroughly considered matters, including drain 
testing, and concluded the property was stable. On one hand, that agreed with NIGs 
position, so I think its position was right. But on the other hand, I dont think NIG gave 
Miss L any reason to be confident its position was right. Because of that, Im satisfied 
it would be fair for NIG to reimburse Miss L the cost of the report, which is £800.
I know Miss L has concerns about the accuracy of the Certificate of Structural 
Adequacy. I note its made out to the policyholder, not Miss L, so its not something I 
can consider. But, as a general point, Id expect the Certificate to be an accurate 
reflection of what happened during the claim. And if it were to reference a schedule 
of work upon which the cash settlement was based, that schedule should show all 
work that was cash settled. This may be something for NIG to consider further.
Compensation
The scope of this complaint runs from April 2022 to May 2023, including the 
complaint responses from November 2022 and May 2023. In total, NIG has offered 
£1,050 compensation and £585 interest for delays during this time.
Its clear NIG accepts its continued to handle the claim poorly. Its communication 
about a number of matters has been unclear and, at times, contradictory and/or not 
supported by the evidence. Ive seen nothing to suggest this is a result of staff lying, 
as Miss L seems to strongly believe, but nonetheless its caused avoidable distress 
and inconvenience to her  and its delayed the settlement of some aspects of a 
claim that long ago became unnecessarily protracted.
Taking into account whats happened during the scope of this complaint, Im satisfied 
NIGs offer of compensation and interest reasonably reflects the impact on Miss L. 
So I wont be requiring NIG to increase it. If its not done so already, it should pay 
these amounts to Miss L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NIG responded to say it would accept my provisional decision.
Miss L responded and made a number of comments. Ill take each in turn, summarising what 
Miss L said and setting out my opinion about it.Miss L questioned why I hadnt followed the recommendation of the investigator for 
NIG to pay an additional £250 compensation. I was satisfied that the total of £1,635 
NIG had offered in compensation for April 2022 to May 2023 was reasonable. So I 
didnt think it needed to pay any further compensation or interest.
In the May 2023 complaint response, NIG said it had contacted the other 
leaseholders about the settlement for the damage to the communal pathway. Miss L 
queried this as she thought the damage was related to her property only and it wasnt 
right for NIG to share information about it with any other parties. NIG agreed not to 
engage the other leaseholders and to include the cost of repair in the cash 
settlement. Miss L asked what the next steps were for this damage. As NIG has cash 
settled this aspect of the claim, its for Miss L to take the next steps, including letting 
the other leaseholders know if appropriate. Theres nothing further for NIG to do on 
this point now that its been cash settled.
Miss L queried whether all of the structural work had been carried out. She said the 
contractor who prepared the schedule of work indicated more work to the bathroom 
wall and ceiling may be needed  but didnt include all of it in the schedule. NIG said 
the schedule included crack repair and that was sufficient to put the damage right. As 
I said in my provisional decision, the cash settlement for the bathroom was made 
prior to the scope of this complaint, so I cant consider it. If Miss L doesnt think the 
schedule is sufficient to deal with the crack repair and/or structural work, shell need 
to take that up with UKI. But, depending on the outcome of the roof inspection and 
report, the position with these crack repairs may change.
Miss L said that even if the offer NIG made in the November 2022 complaint 
response was reasonable at that time, as a result of ongoing delays, it might not be 
reasonable now. She asked for all cash settlements to be increased to reflect current 
costs. This is effectively a new complaint point, so its not something I can consider 
as part of this complaint.
Miss L said NIG had arranged for a roof inspection and report in July 2023  but it 
focused on the lead flashing, didnt find the cause of the water ingress, and 
suggested the lead flashing wasnt the cause anyway. Shes concerned it doesnt 
fulfil what I set out in my provisional decision. She provided the report, and I can 
understand her concern. This might be because it was carried out before my 
provisional decision, so NIG didnt know my thoughts about it. But, in any case, as it 
doesnt fulfil what Ive said it should do, NIG hasnt dealt with this point fully yet  and 
will still need to carry out the remedy in the way Ive explained.
Miss L said she couldnt get a boiler report so long after the work had taken place. I 
recognise it may be more difficult to do so with the passage of time, but I dont think 
its impossible. I did factor the increased difficulty and frustration at finding out about 
this later in the process into my thinking about compensation.
Miss L said she couldnt source cheaper insurance cover elsewhere due to NIGs 
delays. I havent seen anything to suggest shes unable to move to another insurer 
as a result of the way NIG handled the claim. But generally once a policyholder has 
made a subsidence claim, theyll often find it more difficult to move insurers 
regardless of how the claim was handled. So Im not persuaded that the way NIG has 
handled the claim has impacted Miss Ls ability to move insurers.
Miss L said NIG had lied as a soil inspection had taken place and shared an email 
from the loss adjuster which mentioned the findings of the inspection. Given that email, I dont think NIG deliberately concealed anything about the inspection from 
Miss L. As I set out in my provisional decision, I think it conflated two different things 
and gave a confusing position. That was unhelpful but I dont think any malice was 
intended, it was merely a mistake or misunderstanding on NIGs part. In any case, its 
agreed to refund the cost of her report into the matter, so Im satisfied that provides a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this point.
Miss L questioned whether she could complain about the way the claim has been 
handled since the May 2023 complaint response. In short, yes, shes entitled to 
complain about matters since then if she thinks shes not been treated fairly. But I 
would note that some matters may reasonably not have progressed if they were 
dependent on the outcome of this Services investigation.
Overall, having considered Miss Ls response, I remain satisfied the remedy I set out 
in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the reasons 
given above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance, trading as NIG, to:
Pay for the hallway repairs.
Carry out the roof inspection and report back.
Pay £800 for the surveyor report.
Pay £1,635 for compensation and interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman