DRN-4198133
The complaint
Mr K complains that Credit Hero Ltd (CHL) failed to pursue his complaint about the mis-
selling of payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr K said hed instructed CHL to pursue mis -sold PPI complaints with a couple of lenders 
before the August 2019 deadline for making such claims. In October 2020 CHL told Mr K 
that one of his claims had been successful. But Mr K said he wasnt updated about the 
outcome of his other complaint with his lender Ill call H. Mr K said hed emailed CHL 
several times asking for an update, but they never responded. 
Mr K said he contacted H and was told theyd asked CHL for additional information in 
November 2020, but the information wasnt provided. They said it was now too late for       
Mr Ks mis-sold PPI complaint to be considered.  As CHL hasnt responded to Mr K hes 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked CHL to provide their business file so that we could consider what
theyd done for Mr K in pursuance of his mis-sold PPI claims. Our investigator found that 
CHL has gone into liquidation and they didnt provide the requested information.
Our investigator said Mr K has shown hed instructed CHL to act on his behalf in pursuance 
of mis-sold PPI complaints. And that H had asked for further information from CHL in 
November 2020 which he said they most likely didnt address. Our investigator couldnt say 
whether Mr Ks claims would have been successful but said Mr K had suffered a loss of 
opportunity. He asked CHL to compensate Mr K £250 for this. 
Neither CHL nor anyone acting for them has responded to our investigators outcome. Mr Ks 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that CHL havent provided any information about their involvement with       
Mr Ks mis-sold PPI claims. But Mr K has provided evidence of his relationship with CHL and 
testimony about what has happened. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened or 
not considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done so Im 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI complaints to be made. For some lenders the submission of a letter of authority (LoA) was 
accepted as a claim for mis sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. But for others a formal complaint with supporting information 
was required. Any complaint received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been 
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
From the evidence I can see, CHL told Mr K about a successful claim hed with another of his 
lenders in October 2020. So, Im satisfied Mr K had a relationship with CHL. I can see that Mr K 
emailed CHL several times in 2021 asking for an update about his mis-sold PPI complaint 
against H, but I havent seen any evidence of CHL responding to Mr Ks requests.
As outlined above its usual for lenders on receipt of an LoA  prior to the August 2019 
deadline to either accept this as a mis-sold PPI claim  auto conversion  and begin to 
investigate whether PPI has been mis-sold. Or to reject the complaint as PPI hadnt been 
found. If the lender hadnt been able to locate an account for Mr K or needed additional 
information to investigate a claim, I would have expected them to seek the additional 
information they needed. 
I can see Mr K asked H about his mis-sold PPI complaint and they said theyd asked CHL 
for additional information in November 2020. In such situations it was usual for the lender to 
give a deadline for the additional information they needed to be sent to them. H said the 
additional information wasnt provided. And I havent seen any evidence that shows CHL 
responded to Hs request or that they contacted Mr K about the information that was 
needed.  
The Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) provides guidance to claims 
management companies like CHL. Ive considered the relevant guidance. CMCOB 6.1.5R 
says:
A firm must notify the customer of: (b) any material development in the progress of 
the customers claim; 
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 says:
If, during the period to which the report relates, the firm has not sent any notifications to
the customer under CMCOB 6.1.5R, the update should indicate why, to the best of
the firms knowledge, there have been no material developments.
The guidance goes on to say that updates should continue to be given until the claim is
finally determined or settled or is withdrawn or discontinued.
 I cant see Mr K was given any updates about his claims with CHL after October 2020.   
I cant know or speculate whether Mr K would have had a successful mis-sold PPI claim with
H or not as there are several factors that a lender would need to consider. But I can 
understand Mr Ks frustration as having had one successful claim with a lender hed have 
been hopeful of a successful claim with H.While Mr K hasnt shown evidence of paying a premium for any PPI policy with H. CHL 
havent shown me that that they acted on Mr Ks instructions to actively pursue his mis sold 
PPI complaint with H, as Im not satisfied, they responded to or acted upon Hs request 
for additional information. So CHL hasnt complied with the CMCOB guidance. I think this 
has meant Mr Ks lost the opportunity for his mis-sold PPI complaint against H to  be 
considered. 
 
Putting things right
As I mentioned previously, I cant know if Mr Ks  mis-sold PPI complaint would have been 
successful. So, I cant ask CHL to compensate Mr K for a successful PPI claim. But  I think 
CHL should compensate Mr K for the loss of opportunity of having his mis-sold PPI 
complaint considered. They should pay Mr K £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Credit Hero Ltd to pay Mr K £250 for loss of opportunity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman