DRN-2349501
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc have handled her subsidence claim, 
under her landlords insurance policy. 
Mrs B has been represented at times during this complaint by her insurance broker. But for 
ease of reading, Ill refer to Mrs B only throughout the decision.
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives. 
What happened
Mrs B owns a house, which she rented out to tenants. The tenants moved out at the end of 
their lease in 2018. At this time, Mrs B decided to renovate the house before renting it out 
again. The renovations began in September 2018.
During the renovation work, Mrs Bs builder noticed some cracks to the wall in one of the 
bedrooms. Mrs B notified AXA of this and wanted to make a claim. AXA appointed their 
expert to attend, and a claim for subsidence was accepted. There were some delays in work 
starting and the Schedule of Works (SoW) being finalised, and Mrs B complained to AXA 
about this in June 2019. She received AXAs response in July 2019 but never brought the 
complaint to our service. 
The renovation works were still ongoing, and the builder had removed some kitchen units as 
part of this work. Damage was seen to the kitchen walls which appeared to be due to a 
problem with the roof. Mrs B spoke to AXA about this, and they sent an expert to assess the 
roof. This was in August 2019. When AXA received the report, they declined this part of the 
claim. They felt that the roof damage was historical and not subsidence related. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this and arranged for her own report to be done. The report was 
completed in October 2019 and suggested the damage to the roof was related to 
subsidence. AXA considered this report and agreed with it. The roof was included in the 
original claim. 
But Mrs B continued to experience delays and frustration with AXAs speed to progress the 
claim. It wasnt until March 2020 that all the work was completed, and the house was 
returned to the condition it was in prior to the claim being made. 
Mrs B made a new complaint to AXA in March 2020. She was unhappy with how the claim 
had been handled. She said there had been a lack of contact and the incorrect assessment 
of the roof had caused her to lose out financially as she hadnt been able to rent out the 
house. She asked AXA to consider covering her loss of rental income. AXA responded and 
accepted there had been delays since the previous complaint response in July 2019. They 
offered Mrs B £1,000 compensation to reflect this. They didnt agree to cover any loss of rent 
as Mrs B hadnt had any tenants in the house or any lined up, so had not lost out on any 
rental income. 
Mrs B didnt accept this so brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. He said that he agreed with AXA that there had been delays caused during the 
claim, but he felt £1,000 compensation was a fair offer. By this point, Mrs B had accepted 
that she wasnt covered for loss of rent under her policy, but she wanted the compensation 
to be increased to cover her losses. Our investigator didnt agree to this and explained he 
wouldnt be recommending anything else. He said that, as Mrs B had returned the cheque to 
AXA, a discussion should take place if she wanted to accept it. 
Mrs B didnt agree, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA havent given consent for the entire claim handling to be looked at, this decision is 
only looking at the period between July 2019, the date of Mrs Bs first final response letter, 
and April 2020, when she received the second final response. 
AXA have already accepted that Mrs B had a valid claim for subsidence under her landlords 
insurance policy. And theyve also accepted that the claim handling between the time in 
question hasnt been satisfactory. So, all I need to decide is if their offer of £1,000 
compensation is reasonable. And in this case, I think it is. 
Claims for subsidence can be lengthy as they involve a degree of monitoring over a period of 
time. And this in turn can bring stress and inconvenience to a policyholder. That is to be 
expected. But, having looked at the circumstances of Mrs Bs claim, its clear that AXA have 
caused undue inconvenience and delay. 
When AXA went to assess Mrs Bs roof in August 2019, they were only able to complete an 
internal assessment as they didnt have the right equipment to climb up and inspect the roof. 
There is no suggestion that AXA werent aware it was a roof that needed checking, so I dont 
think its unreasonable to expect their experts to turn up with the right equipment to carry out 
a proper assessment. This led to AXA declining this aspect of the claim incorrectly and 
resulted in Mrs B having to arrange her own report a couple of months later which AXA 
accepted. That is an unnecessary delay, that could have been avoided. However, Im 
pleased to see that AXA reimbursed Mrs B for the cost of the report.  
Im satisfied that AXA caused an additional delay after this too. There was some discussion 
between AXA and Mrs B about what aspects of her kitchen replacement were going to be 
cash settled, and what repairs needed to take place. But it was only a week before work was 
due to start that AXA said an asbestos test needed to be carried out on the kitchen ceiling. 
Whilst its important this was done, I havent seen any reason why it wasnt arranged sooner 
than it was. Again, this is an unnecessary delay on AXAs behalf. 
Having looked through all the information provided by Mrs B and by AXA its also clear that 
Mrs B had to do a lot of chasing to AXA for updates about the claims present position, what 
appointments had been scheduled and when she could expect people to be at her house. As 
it isnt Mrs Bs permanent residence, and the house was uninhabited, I can understand how 
this would also have caused her some inconvenience. 
AXA have accepted all these delays and inconveniences and have offered Mrs B £1,000 
compensation for this. There is no doubt AXA have caused delays since July 2019, but Im 
satisfied the amount theyve offered Mrs B is a fair one. Mrs B would like the compensation to be increased as she feels shes lost out on potential 
rental income as a result of the delays. Shes said that she planned to rent the house out 
immediately the work was completed, and AXA have prevented that from happening. 
Mrs Bs policy confirms she is covered for any lost rental income. But in this case, it doesnt 
apply as she didnt have any tenants in the house during this time so had no rental income to 
lose. I think thats reasonable. AXA has suggested that Mrs B could have rented the house 
out at a lower cost to tenants while the work was still being completed, as it wasnt 
uninhabitable, although it would have been inconvenient for any tenant. And any shortfall in 
rent as a result could have been claimed back from AXA as part of the claim. Mrs B has said 
she wasnt made aware of this so wasnt able to take that opportunity. 
I have to consider what I think Mrs B would most likely have done had she been aware of 
that. And Im not persuaded Mrs B would have rented the house out at that stage. She has 
said within the history of the claim that she didnt want to rent the house out until all the 
repairs were completed, as she was only interested in a certain type of tenant and she didnt 
think theyd be interested in the house with repairs still needed. So, Im persuaded the house 
would have been left uninhabited even if Mrs B was aware of her options. 
And whilst its accepted the repair works have been delayed, I havent seen anything to 
satisfy me that Mrs B had any potential tenants lined up to move in. I accept that she may 
have been able to find suitable tenants immediately, but its my role to look at what has 
happened, not what could have happened. And as I havent seen anything to suggest any 
rental income has been lost, I wont be asking AXA to increase their offer of compensation. 
I understand that Mrs B has returned the £1,000 compensation cheque to AXA. Its now up 
to her to decide if shed like to accept it and arrange for the payment to be made to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman