DRN-3746106
The complaint
Mr R complained about delays caused by James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading 
as James Hay Partnership in switching his pension to a new provider (who Ill refer to as 
A).
What happened
Mr R held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay. In October 2021, he 
asked to transfer this to A). The SIPP held various investments. Two transfers were needed 
 an in-specie transfer of assets held within the SIPP and a cash transfer of the assets held 
as cash.
James Hay received the transfer request from A on 15 October and it responded to A on 20 
October with the information they needed. James Hay asked A to confirm acceptance of the 
transfer, which it did on 4 November. James Hay then arranged the in-specie transfer of 
Mr Rs assets and awaited confirmation from A that theyd all been transferred. A confirmed 
on 24 November that the final asset had been transferred. 
On 25 November the cash balance of Mr Rs SIPP was due to be transferred. The payment 
was raised but wasnt successful. Mr R and his advisor contacted James Hay on various 
occasions to chase the transfer of his cash balance. This transfer was eventually made on 
22 December.
Mr R complained to James Hay about the delay that occurred. Although it felt the in-specie 
transfer completed as expected, James Hay agreed that there was a delay with the transfer 
of the cash. In summary, it felt the cash transfer should have been completed on 25 
November. James Hay apologised and to resolve the complaint it offered Mr R £1,349.60  
this being the losses it thought hed suffered because of the delay (which was calculated by 
comparing the cash amount transferred with what Mr Rs funds would have been worth if 
they had been transferred on 25 November and invested in line with a benchmark).
Mr R rejected James Hays offer. He didnt feel that all points of his complaint had been 
addressed or that the compensation offered was appropriate. His complaint was therefore 
referred to us.
Our investigator thought James Hay was responsible for four weeks of delays for the cash 
element of the transfer. She agreed with the date James Hay had used in its calculations 
and asked for the redress to be re-calculated to bring any losses up to date. She also 
recommended that James Hay pay Mr R £150 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt feel that the issue regarding adviser fees 
had been addressed. He also expected any calculation to be from 5 November as this is 
when A received the first part of his pension transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this  particularly when a business has already accepted that it acted unfairly  
I dont think its necessary to delve into what happened and why. For me, its simply enough 
here to conclude that James Hay did unnecessarily delay the transfer of the cash element of 
the pension as this should have been completed much earlier that it was. I therefore only 
need to decide what James Hay needs to do to put matters right.
The first issue Ive considered is the date the cash should have been transferred. It appears 
from the documentation provided that assets were transferred to A on/around 5 November. 
This ties in with what Ive said above about A confirming acceptance of the transfer on 4 
November. It also appears that James Hay didnt receive confirmation that all the assets had 
been transferred until 24 November.
In transfers of this nature, it's normal industry practice  and not unusual  for the cash 
element to be transferred at the end. Accordingly, Im satisfied that James Hay acted 
reasonably by waiting until the final confirmation was received before transferring the cash 
element of the SIPP. I therefore conclude that the delay in transferring the cash in this case 
was from 25 November to 22 December ie roughly four weeks, as accepted by James Hay 
and agreed by our investigator. Im therefore satisfied that 25 November is the appropriate 
date to use for the compensation calculations (see below).
 
Mr R also raised the issue about fees being charged. The first was in respect of the transfer 
fee of £150  he felt this shouldnt be charged given the delays that occurred. I dont agree 
with this argument. When deciding what compensation is appropriate I look to put Mr R back 
into the position he would have been in had the delays not occurred. And if the cash transfer 
had been made on 25 November the transfer fee would have been charged. So there are no 
grounds in my view for this to be refunded.
The second was in respect of ongoing administration/management fees charged by James 
Hay and advisor fees. Its not entirely clear to me that Mr R was charged any ongoing 
management fee by James Hay. But, as Ive just said, the compensation I award is designed 
to put him back into the position he would have been in had the cash transfer been made on 
25 November. So this will take account of any fees taken beyond this date.
James Hay referred to an advisor charge when it initially considered Mr Rs complaint  it 
said was part of the reason why the cash transfer was being delayed. This appears to have 
been a charge by Mr Rs financial advisor rather than James Hay. If this is the case Mr R will 
need to take that up with his financial advisor.
Finally, Mr R has said that both he and his financial advisor spent time chasing James Hay. I 
dont award compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr Rs financial 
advisor. However, its clear the delay led to Mr R also spending time chasing the transfer. 
Our investigator suggested  and James Hay agreed to  £150 compensation and I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. Its in line with what I would have awarded had it not already 
been on the table.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that James Hay unreasonably delayed the 
transfer of the cash element of Mr R pension. It should have been transferred on 25 
November 2021 rather than 22 December 2021.Putting things right
Financial loss
The calculations outlined below will in my view put Mr R as close as possible into the 
position he would be in if the cash element of his pension had been transferred on 25 
November 2021.
Mr Rs loss should be calculated as follows:
calculate what the current value of the cash transfer element of Mr Rs pension would 
be if it had been transferred on 25 November 2021 (this is A)
confirm the current value of the cash transfer element of Mr Rs pension is as it is 
invested now (this is B)
subtract B from A to get C.
If C is a positive number, that is the loss Mr R has suffered. If C is a negative number, 
theres been no loss and James Hay dont have to pay any further compensation.
If theres a loss, James Hay should pay into Mr Rs pension to increase its value by the total 
amount of compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of any 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If James Hay is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Rs pension, it should pay the amount 
directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Rs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Interest
The above compensation must where possible be paid to Mr R or into his pension within 30 
days of the date James Hay receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that 
it takes James Hay to pay the compensation.
In order to do the calculations James Hay might need to get information from Mr Rs 
new/current pension scheme, which in turn might require Mr Rs authorisation. This might 
mean the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 30 day period allowed for settlement 
above. So any period of time where the only outstanding information required to undertake 
the calculation is needed from Mr Rs new/current pension scheme may be added to the 30 
day period in which interest wont apply.
Income tax might be payable on any interest paid. If James Hay deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much it has taken off. James Hay should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Distress and inconvenience
In addition to, and irrespective of, the above, James Hay should pay Mr R £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading as James 
Hay Partnership to pay Mr R compensation as outlined under the Putting things right 
heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman