DRN-3468026
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy abut the outcome of a claim under section 75 made against HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr W purchased a television from a supplier and paid using his HSBC credit 
card.
Mr W was unhappy with the television. He says he purchased a television described on the 
suppliers website as brand new, with a  manufacturers guarantee. However, when he 
received the television, Mr W discovered that there was no guarantee and that the serial 
number had been removed from the back of the set and from the internal memory.
Mr W was unable to resolve matters with the supplier so he contacted HSBC to make a 
section 75 claim.
HSBC rejected the claim. It said the supplier had provided proof that the television was as 
described in the original sales listing.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants HSBC to 
accept a rejection of the television.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought the supplier had made it 
clear on its website that it sold old stock items at reduced process. The investigator said he 
hadnt seen enough evidence to say that the television had been misrepresented or that the 
television was faulty.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the suppliers website had been updated since he purchased the 
television and that it had originally stated that they sold brand new as well as liquidated 
stock. Mr W said that the television hed purchased had been described as brand new with a  
manufacturers guarantee and he didnt think the television he had received was brand new. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that HSBCs response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
Mr W has said that the television he received wasnt as described, because it wasnt new, 
and it didnt have a manufacturers guarantee. So Ive focussed on whether theres been a 
misrepresentation here.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into 
an agreement.
Mr W has said that the television he purchased was described as brand new. He has 
provided a screen shot of the original advertisement which states that the television comes 
with a manufacturers guarantee. Mr W has said that the supplier altered the description of 
the goods on its website after he raised his complaint.
Ive looked at the suppliers website. In the section about our stock the supplier states that it 
sells liquidated stock and old stock/excess stock. In relation to serial numbers, the supplier 
states that serial plates may not be present on liquidated stock. The supplier states that all 
items come with a manufacturers warranty.
Mr W has provided a screen shot from the suppliers website which he says he relied on. 
This says all of out items are in excellent condition and all of our stock is new. All TVs come 
with a full warranty.
Ive looked at the suppliers website and Ive been unable to find this statement. However, 
Ive found a very similar one. This says all of our items are in excellent condition and we 
never send anything out which is not quality checked. All TVs come with a full warranty.
Based on what Ive seen Im unable to say that theres been a misrepresentation. This is 
because theres no evidence to suggest that the television supplied to Mr W wasnt new. The 
suppliers website makes it clear that stock is unpacked and checked before it is despatched, 
and that liquated stock might not have a serial plate. But the fact that stock has been 
unpacked or is missing a serial number doesnt mean that it isnt new. On balance, I think its 
likely that Mr W received a television which met the description on the suppliers website.
There isnt enough evidence to say that the television was misrepresented. For this reason, 
Im unable to say that HSBCs response to the section 75 claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman