DRN-4127690
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Computershare Investor Services Plc. She said it hasnt 
obtained the best price when it has re-invested her dividend from an investment trust that 
she holds. She said from her analysis it hasnt been obtaining the best price for many years, 
and as such is in breach of its own terms and conditions. 
Mrs B thinks Computershare should have obtained better prices, and so because of this she 
has made investment losses.
What happened
Mrs B has held shares in an investment trust at least since 2007. Computershare holds the 
investment trust shares on her behalf. It also administers the dividend payments and in Mrs 
Bs case, it re-invests this payment and arranges for more shares to be bought through a 
dividend re-investment scheme. 
Mrs B has complained about the price Computershare has been obtaining when it carries 
out the re-investment of the dividend and buys more shares. She has given an example from 
a re-investment carried out by Computershare on 22 September 2022. She said it carried 
out the trade at 0958 that day and it obtained the highest price for that day of £3.22. 
Mrs B said this then led her to carrying out analysis of her previous dividend re-investments 
carried out by Computershare. She provided an analysis going back to December 2007, that 
showed the price she received for 51 re-investment trades. She said 43 of these trades were 
above the mid-point average price for the day the trade took place and 21 of these were at 
the highest price of the day.
Mrs B said she looked through the terms and conditions provided by Computershare and 
saw that it stated, we and the broker have to get you the best price reasonably available 
when we buy your shares. Mrs B said Computershare has not done this and her analysis 
shows something entirely different where she has been getting the highest price on any 
given trade day or at least on most occasions higher than average, going back to 2007. Mrs 
B said Computershare was in breach of its own terms in this regard. She said it hadnt been 
looking to achieve the best price available during the day. She complained to 
Computershare about this. 
Computershare in response explained what its role was when it dealt with orders from 
customers. It said it transmits any orders to market makers for execution. It said it was up to 
the market makers to obtain the best price for its customer. It said it had its own process in 
place to ensure they complied with best execution requirements. 
Mrs B was not happy with Computershares response and referred her complaint to our 
service.  
An investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. He said he didnt think Computershare 
needed to take any action. He said Computershare is obliged to buy shares at the best price 
at the time it buys them, and this is not the same as it is obtaining the best price of the day. 
The investigator didnt think Computershare had done anything wrong.
Mrs B is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case her complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has sent in a submission that she has asked me to read. She has provided 
comments and analysis to support her complaint. She has also asked that I read her 
previous submissions and evidence that she has provided. I have carefully read all that Mrs 
B has said and submitted to our service. I have read and considered the three different 
scenarios she has described in her recent submission along with the questions that she 
feels I should ask Computershare. 
Due to the length of Mrs Bs submission from 12 May 2023 and the number of points she 
has made within it along with other submissions she has submitted before this date, I wont 
be responding to everything she has raised. Instead, I have focussed on what I think is 
relevant to her main complaint, that is that Computershare has breached its terms, by not 
looking to achieve the best price it can when it has been reinvesting Mrs Bs dividend 
payment.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. I will explain my reasons. 
Mrs B has held shares in the investment trust in question for many years. She has 
explained that, whenever she is paid a dividend in relation to this trust, that she has had an 
arrangement in place that the cash amount will be re-invested back into the trust, and she 
will obtain more shares. She has been part of Computershares dividend re-investment 
scheme, at least since 2007. 
Mrs B has carried out detailed analysis and has noted down the price that she has obtained 
the shares for each time Computershare has reinvested the dividend money, and she has 
seen what the highest and lowest prices of the shares have been during the trading days in 
question. Mrs B has analysed the trades  there have been 51 and she has seen that from 
these Computershare bought shares for her above the mid-point average for the day 43 
times. I have looked through Mrs Bs analysis and read what she has collated. I 
acknowledge the points she is making here and can see that the price that has been 
obtained has often been higher than the daily average and on 21 occasions, as she has 
stated, the price obtained was the highest during that day.
Mrs B has looked at Computershares re-investment plan terms and conditions, along with 
its order handling policy. I have read all the extracts that she has taken from both  and 
read what she has said carefully about this. Mrs B said that Computershare are explicit in 
promising that it along with its brokers will act in the best interests of its client and 
endeavour to give them the best (i.e., the cheapest) deal it reasonably can.  
Mrs B said Computershares primary objective within its terms and order handling policy is 
clearly implied  to buy as cheaply as possible  in the best interests of its clients. She said 
that it hasnt done this, and her analysis supports her view. She said it and the broker it has 
passed the order to, should have used their expertise and knowledge to secure a better 
price on each of the days that it placed the trade.I have looked into the terms that Mrs B has referred to, and I think all that she has listed out 
in her submission relates to Computershares requirements to ensure that when an order 
has been placed, that the best possible price is sought. So, for Computershare this would 
be for it to have a process in place that it can check that the party they have instructed to 
carry out the order, have done so and sought the best price for its customers, at the 
moment the order has been placed. I can see Computershare has listed out what it means 
by this, that it and its broker need to consider such issues as the bid/ask price, market price, 
volume being traded, the amount of shares it needs to buy and market liquidity. So, I can 
see that this is what Computershare is referring to when it says through its terms that it is 
looking to carry out best execution of any order it receives and places into the market.
The financial regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA), has provided guidance 
and regulation with regards to best execution of orders, when they are placed  and again I 
think this is what Computershares terms relate to.
The FCA requires firms like Computershare to take all sufficient steps to obtain best 
possible results for its clients, when executing transactions on their behalf. This means, 
Computershare needs to ensure that when it places an order the broker it employs 
considers price, cost, speed and the likelihood of its being executed. 
Best execution of orders and the terms that are given in relation to this in Computershares 
documentation and highlighted by Mrs B, are not, I dont think, in relation to it carrying out 
market timing by using its own judgement to pick a time it thinks it would achieve the best 
price during any given day. I also havent seen anywhere in its documentation, that 
Computershare have explicitly said it would look to time the market and obtain the best 
price during the day when it reinvests dividend payments for its customers. Rather, it is 
saying that it will look to adhere to best execution guidance and regulations as stipulated by 
the FCA. 
Computershare has also stated in its terms under 5.1 that purchases are made on or as 
soon as reasonably practicable after each dividend payment date. Im satisfied after seeing 
this that Computershare, by following its own terms, is looking to place an order as soon as 
is reasonably practicable with its chosen broker and then when it does, it is looking to, with 
the broker, carry out best execution of that order, considering all the issues that I have 
already mentioned.  
Mrs Bs analysis is thorough, and she does make some clear points about what she has 
found from this about the price achieved by Computershare through its dividend re-
investment scheme. It is of course up to Mrs B as to whether she wants to continue using 
the service provided by Computershare in this regard. That said, I understand the point Mrs 
B is making is in relation to her analysis and her interpretation of the terms she has 
highlighted about what she feels Computershare has said it will do. But I dont agree with 
her interpretation on this occasion. As I have said, I think when Computershare has 
mentioned within its terms that it will look to obtain the best price, this is in reference to its 
regulatory obligations of best execution when it places an order and not, as Mrs B has 
interpreted, when during the day it feels it ought to, based on its expertise and professional 
judgement. 
So based on what I have just concluded, I dont think Computershare is responsible for any 
failings here in all the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs B, and I acknowledge the strength 
of her feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given, I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman