DRN-3656309
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund over £10,000 he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made to the crypto 
platforms using his Monzo debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammers). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr C has lost around £10,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Cs spending 
history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of such an 
amount, for example, that it would represent a significant deviation from the way Mr Cs 
account was normally run. 
The largest payment Mr C made, for example, was for £5,000 to Binance. But by this 
point, Binance was already an established payee that he had payed similar amounts to 
(such as £1,000 on 8 March 2021 and £4,000 on 17 March 2021). So, it wouldnt have 
appeared as unusual or out of character. I also appreciate that Monzo have since 
blocked payments being made to Binance. However, this policy had not been 
implemented at the point Mr C made his payments, so there was no obligation on it to 
have prevented payments to this merchant at the time, which is still a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange.
So, having considered the payments Mr C made, Im not persuaded there was anything 
that ought reasonably to have triggered Monzos fraud monitoring systems, or that would 
have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr C used his 
debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the companies he paid 
had provided the services as intended. Therefore, I do not think Monzo were under any 
obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr C either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman