DRN-2644175
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy AIG Life Limited has declined his claim following his cancer diagnosis. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr J applied for a term assurance policy which included critical illness cover 
with a sum assured of £20,000. Sadly, in April 2020, Mr J made a claim under his critical 
illness policy following a cancer diagnosis. 
AIG reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It said Mr J had failed to make it aware of 
his mental health. Specifically, AIG said Mr J shouldve answered yes to the following 
questions; 
Apart from what you have already mentioned: In the last 3 years have you taken or been 
advised to take any form of drug treatment, medication or other types of therapy including 
counselling, that lasted for a month or more? You do not need to tell us about: 
Contraception, fertility treatment, hormone replacement therapy (HRT), cold sores, ear 
syringing, ingrowing toenails, tonsillitis, wisdom teeth or uncomplicated pregnancies and 
childbirth.
In the last 12 months have you had any medical conditions requiring two or more 
attendances with a doctor, consultant, medical practitioner or any healthcare professional? 
You do not need to tell us about: Contraception, fertility treatment, hormone replacement 
therapy (HRT), cold sores, ear syringing, ingrowing toenails, tonsillitis, wisdom teeth or 
uncomplicated pregnancies and childbirth.
AIG said Mr J had been seen by his GP in March 2018 due to stress and he was 
subsequently signed off work for twenty-one days. It added that Mr J had seen a psychiatrist 
in November 2018 and had been prescribed anti-depressant medication. And Mr J had seen 
a psychiatrist again in January 2019 and his GP in February 2019 for anxiety and 
depression. Mr J was then prescribed anti-depressant medication again and was seen by a 
mental health team. 
Mr J was unhappy with AIGs decision and with the way his claim had been handled, so he 
made a complaint. He said he had been told during the claims process that his claim would 
be paid only for the decision to change. 
AIG reviewed Mr Js complaint and offered him a goodwill gesture of £300 from its claims 
support fund, but it upheld its decision to reject Mr Js claim. Mr J remained unhappy, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said AIG had correctly 
decided that Mr J hadnt answered the above questions properly when he applied for the 
policy. He said that Mr J had been careless when answering these questions. So, AIG was 
entitled to reject the claim, avoid the policy and return the premiums Mr J had paid. 
The investigator added that he had listened to the calls Mr J had with AIG. He said that AIG 
had incorrectly told Mr J his claim was being assessed and would hopefully be paid in due 
course. But he didnt think AIG should pay more than the £300 it had already offered Mr J.
 
Mr J remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said AIG hasnt 
provided all the information to this service to consider, and that someone he spoke to at AIG 
had agreed that he had made a genuine mistake when completing the application. So, he 
said the claim should be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr J, 
which is made worse given his current state of health. Id like to assure him I havent made 
this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Mr J and AIG 
have provided to this service  and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular 
point, its not because I havent considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats 
important to the outcome. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr J has misrepresented his medical history 
when taking out this policy. And if so, AIG needs to show it wouldnt have offered the policy 
at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Js mental health history?
I understand Mr J has said he made a genuine mistake when completing the application. But 
having reviewed the questions he was asked, Im satisfied the questions above were 
sufficiently clear to allow him to answer them correctly. And Im satisfied there were also 
clear and suitable warnings about the failure to answer these questions correctly during the 
sale. So, I believe AIG sufficiently brought these to Mr Js attention.
Having reviewed the medical records and what Mr J has said, Im also satisfied he didnt 
answer the questions correctly. I note there are various records of discussions with a 
psychiatrist, GP and mental health team from November 2018 to February 2019. Mr J was 
also twice prescribed anti-depressant medication during the same time period. 
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made AIG aware of 
Mr Js mental health history when applying for the policy. Having done so, I dont think a 
reasonable person wouldve forgotten the above when completing, and then reviewing, the 
application when considering the questions AIG asked. The application was completed only 
a few months after Mr Js appointments and prescriptions. So, Im not satisfied a reasonable 
person wouldve forgotten about this information so close to the application. 
What would AIG have done differently? AIG has said if it had been made aware of Mr Js full medical history it wouldnt have given 
him the term assurance policy. Its returned Mr Js premiums which is a careless remedy 
under CIDRA. Im not satisfied Mr J deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical 
history to AIG here. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has made a careless 
misrepresentation, AIG can take whatever action it wouldve taken if the correct answers had 
been given at the point of application. Based on what we know about Mr Js mental health 
and medical records, AIG has supplied evidence from its underwriter which shows that had it 
been made aware of these, it wouldnt have accepted his application. 
So, Im satisfied AIGs decisions to retrospectively avoid the policy and refund the premiums 
is fair and in line with what CIDRA sets out. 
AIGs handling of the claim
Mr J said his complaint was unnecessarily delayed and AIG were trying to find any excuse to 
not pay him the sum assured. He thinks AIG wouldnt have offered him £300 if it had dealt 
with the claim properly. AIG says it has made this payment from its claims support fund 
which is the maximum amount it can pay and unrelated to the terms and conditions of Mr Js 
policy. AIG says this is made as a gesture of goodwill and isnt related to how Mr J feels his 
claim was handled. 
Mr J says he was told AIG could see it had done something wrong and that is why it offered 
him the £300. 
I can understand why Mr J is frustrated with the length of time the claim took to resolve. So, 
Ive reviewed the timeline. I note AIG was notified of the claim on 28 April 2020 and its 
decision to reject it was made in late July 2020. Claims such as Mr Js can take some time to 
review and process due to various bits of information needing to be requested from different 
medical professionals. 
I note there were short delays in Mr J submitting the claim due to him being given the wrong 
e-mail address and then a delay in waiting for the GP surgery to send documentation. I can 
see from the timeline AIG asked for information from Mr Js GP in a timely manner. And this 
service does expect some claims to take a few months to be resolved. So, I dont think AIG 
caused any significant delay that merits any compensatory award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman