DRN-3069677
The complaint
Mr C and Miss C have complained that EUI Limited, trading as Admiral (EUI) unfairly 
declined their claim when Mr Cs laptop was stolen.
What happened
Mr C and Miss C were joint holders of a contents insurance policy with EUI.  Mr C has dealt 
with matters throughout on behalf of them both.  
In spring 2021, Mr C was trying to raise some money.  So he decided to sell a laptop 
computer.  He advertised it through several online platforms and agreed a sale for £750.  
Because of Covid-19 restrictions in place at the time, Mr C didnt ask the buyer into his 
home, but arranged to meet him in the communal car park for his apartment block.
When they met, the buyer agreed to buy the laptop and asked for Mr Cs bank details so he 
could transfer the money.  Mr C says he put the laptop down so he could find the details on 
this phone.  The buyer snatched the laptop, ran to a waiting car and drove off.
Mr C made a report to the police and contacted EUI to make a claim under his contents 
insurance policy.  The claims handler he spoke to indicated they didnt think he was covered 
for the loss because hed invited the buyer onto the property.  But they said theyd check the 
position.  They called Mr C again later that day to confirm their decision that there was no 
cover in the circumstances Mr C had reported.
Mr C wasnt happy with EUIs decision and complained.  EUI considered his complaint but 
didnt change their position.  They wrote to Mr C explaining his policy excluded cover for loss 
or damage caused by someone who was lawfully in his home.  And they said there was a 
second clause which excluded loss resulting from deception.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with EUIs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded that EUI didnt need to do anything differently.  They said they 
thought it was more likely that the buyer had arranged to meet Mr C intending to steal the 
laptop than he saw an opportunity to steal it  so it was reasonable for EUI to rely on the 
deception exclusion.  
And that noted that, even if EUI hadnt relied on that exclusion, Mr C and Miss C didnt have 
cover for the laptop away from the home.  So it wouldnt have been covered in any event as 
the communal car park didnt fall within the policy definition of home.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Cs and Miss Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Cs upset by what happened and feels its unfair.  But insurance doesnt 
cover every eventuality and insurers dont have to pay out for every loss  only those that fall 
within the terms of the policy.  My role is to decide whether EUI have acted in line with the 
policy terms and applied them fairly and reasonably.
Like all policies, Mr Cs and Miss Cs sets out what cover is provided.  And it sets out a 
number of exclusions  circumstances where no covers provided.
This was a claim for theft.  But EUI have relied two exclusions in the policy relating to 
deception.  The first excludes loss or damage:
Caused by you or your family, domestic staff, lodgers, paying guests, tenants or any other 
person lawfully in your home, including those via any dedicated home sharing website, 
unless force and violence have been used to enter your home
The second is a general exclusion of any loss caused by deception, unless the deception 
was to gain entry to the policyholders home.
EUIs position is that Mr C was deceived by the buyer into meeting him.  Mr C has said that 
wasnt the case and the buyer took the opportunity to snatch the laptop when Mr C put it 
down.
In circumstances like this, where I cant know what was in the buyers mind, I have to base 
my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened.  Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr C has said.  But I think its unlikely that someone who came to meet him intending 
to pay him £750 for his laptop suddenly decided to commit a crime and steal it.
I think its far more likely that they arranged to meet Mr C intending to steal the laptop if they 
got the chance.  And that means I think Mr C was deceived by the buyer.  So EUIs decision 
to decline the claim on that basis was reasonable.
Ive seen Mr Cs responded to the investigators view saying he couldnt meet the buyer in 
his home due to Covid-19 restrictions in place at the time.  I can see why he thinks thats 
relevant, as the policy does cover deception, if that deception gains a thief entry to 
someones home.
Ive thought about this.  I understand why Mr C chose to meet the buyer outside.  But that 
was his choice  as was the choice to sell the laptop at that time and using the media he did.  
And I cant say he would have invited the buyer into his home had restrictions not existed.  
So I dont this its reasonable for me to say that the restrictions mean EUI should deal with 
Mr Cs and Miss Cs claim differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs and Miss Cs complaint about EUI 
Limited, trading as Admiral.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman