DRN-2817949
The complaint
Mr S complains about how much One Sure Insurance Limited charged him when he 
cancelled his commercial vehicle insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr S took out courier and goods in transit insurance through One Sure. His van then broke 
down and he decided to cancel his insurance. One Sure cancelled his insurance and 
provided a breakdown of the costs and the amount Mr S owed. Mr S thought he was being 
charged too much so he complained. 
One Sure looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the time on risk was set by 
the insurer, so it didnt have any control over that, and the other charges had been made 
clear to Mr S and were set out in its terms of business. Mr S didnt agree and brought his 
complaint here. He said English wasnt his first language and so he didnt understand all the 
terms and conditions. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
that One Sure wasnt made aware Mr S didnt understand all the terms and conditions, so 
didnt think it did anything wrong by not making adjustments for him. However, she also 
found that Mr S had taken out two separate policies through One Sure. 
One was his courier insurance and the other was for his goods in transit cover. Because of 
this One Sure had charged a cancellation fee of £85 per policy, totalling £170. She asked 
One Sure for a breakdown of these costs to show they were fair but One Sure didnt provide 
it. It said as two policies were cancelled two cancellation fees applied. Our Investigator didnt 
think this was fair as One Sure hadnt shown why the charges were proportionate, she also 
noted during the sales call Mr S asked about cancellation charges and was told a 
cancellation fee of £85 would apply. Because of this she asked One Sure to only charge one 
cancellation fee of £85. One Sure disagreed, it said its charges were proportionate and 
clearly laid out in its terms of business. 
As One Sure disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cancellation letters Mr S was sent explain what hes been charged, I can see for each 
policy One Sure has charged him loss of commission and a cancellation fee of £85. There is 
also a time on risk charged by each insurer however, as the time on risk charge isnt 
charged by One Sure I cant consider it further in this decision. 
One Sures terms of business say under the section What you pay:
We normally receive commission from the insurer or product providers, typically this is from 
5%-20%. The terms go on to say One Sure will charge 20% of any rebate if the policy is 
cancelled to cover any commission clawback from the insurer. Im satisfied its clear the 
maximum commission One Sure will receive is 20%, and as Mr S has been charged less 
than this One Sure has charged him in line with its terms of business in relation to the 
commission. 
The terms of business also say under the same section that a cancellation fee of £85 will be 
charged if the policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period. Ive also listened to 
the sales call where Mr S asks about the cost if he cancels his insurance. One Sure say: 
you will be charged for any commission lost and a fee of £85 will apply if the cancellation is 
after the cooling off. Its not clear from this that Mr S would be charged £85 twice, one for 
each policy. 
Our investigator asked for a breakdown of this cost to see if it was proportionate to the work 
involved in cancelling the policy but One Sure hasnt provided a breakdown. As One Sure 
hasnt shown the work to cancel these two policies is proportionate to charge £170, Im not 
persuaded the cancellation charge is fair and reasonable in this particular case. 
Therefore, to put things right I think One Sure should only charge Mr S one cancellation fee 
of £85 to cancel his courier insurance and goods in transit insurance policies. If Mr S has 
already paid both cancellation fees, One Sure should refund £85 back to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Sure Insurance Limited to charge Mr S one cancellation fee of £85 to cancel his courier 
insurance policy and his goods in transit insurance policy. If Mr S has already paid both of 
these cancellation fees One Sure Insurance Limited needs to refund Mr S £85.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman