DRN-3561769
The complaint
Ms D complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV (CIGNA) unfairly 
cancelled her policy.
What happened
Ms D held an international medical insurance policy with CIGNA. In April 2020 she said she 
noticed irregularities with some of her bills from a particular healthcare provider, so 
contacted CIGNA and asked it to halt processing her claims while she looked into the matter. 
CIGNA paid those claims towards the end of April 2020, but in May 2020 told Ms D her 
policy had been randomly selected for an internal audit. Ms D told CIGNA shed previously 
contacted it to explain she was concerned about irregular bills. And in June 2020 she asked 
CIGNA to put an alert on her account because shed identified irregular bills from another 
healthcare provider too.
CIGNA requested details of all the claims Ms D thought were impacted. Ms D collated that 
information and explained she thought there was over €7,500 still outstanding in unpaid 
genuine claims, but more than €2,200 that had been overpaid in relation to irregular bills.  
In October 2020 CIGNA made the decision to terminate Ms Ds policy and said it had done 
so because of the presence of fraudulent claims. 
Ms D complained and said shed previously been a victim of identity theft and CIGNA should 
have done more to work with her to resolve the issue rather than terminating her policy. 
Ms D said shed continued to undergo treatment and accrue medical bills before being told 
of the termination. And when CIGNA did tell her of it its letter contained someone elses 
details which only added to her identity theft concerns. Ms D also said claims data had been 
deleted from her account and the genuine medical bills that had been submitted prior to the 
policy termination remained unpaid. 
CIGNA said itd terminated Ms Ds policy correctly. It said it had initiated the audit before 
shed flagged any concerns to it and claims on the policy had been found to be fraudulent. It 
said it hadnt found any evidence of someone else accessing or compromising Ms Ds 
account, and Ms D had received the overpayments herself. CIGNA did accept that someone 
elses details were on its termination letter, but it said that was a mistake and not a result of 
identity theft.  
Unhappy with CIGNAs actions Ms D referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that some of the claims were fraudulent, but they 
said the policy explained a policyholder would have needed to make a fraudulent claim both 
knowingly and with intent and CIGNA hadnt demonstrated that had happened here. As they 
didnt think CIGNA had done enough to show itd acted fairly and reasonably, our 
investigator recommended it paid the unpaid genuine claims (less the overpayment from the 
fraudulent ones) with interest and reinstate the policy should Ms D want that policy again.
Ms D accepted those recommendations, but CIGNA did not. CIGNA said Ms D now had a 
new policy with it and claims were being processed under that cover as normal. It also said 
Ms D hadnt returned the overpayments, the fraud wasnt reported to the police, and the 
claims were made via a member portal which had no evidence of being accessed without 
Ms Ds login details. 
For reference, Ms D went on to cancel the new policy shed taken out with CIGNA. That 
policy is now the subject of a different complaint being considered under separate reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I too will be upholding Ms Ds complaint for largely the same reason as the 
investigator before me.
The presence of discrepant claims and Ms D being in receipt of an overpayment isnt in 
dispute here. What remains in dispute is whether CIGNA has done enough to demonstrate 
that the presence of those claims invoked the policys fraud terms.
Looking at the policys terms and conditions I can see Ms Ds cover is subject to the 
following general exclusion:
We will not pay a claim which we have reasonable grounds to suppose has been made 
fraudulently. Please see clause 16 for further details.
The terms and conditions also set out the specific fraud term as being: 
Any beneficiary who, knowingly and with intent to defraud any insurance company or other 
person: (1) files an application for insurance or statement of claim containing any materially 
false information; or (2) conceals, for the purposes of misleading, information which has 
been asked for, commits a fraudulent insurance act, which is a crime.
So, for me to conclude CIGNA had acted fairly and reasonably it would need to demonstrate 
that Ms D had submitted fraudulent claims knowingly and with intent to defraud. For the 
reasons given below I dont think it did:
I wont recite the full timeline of events here as I think they are now well known by 
both parties, but Ms D appears to have alerted CIGNA to potentially fraudulent claims 
on her policy first and before it decided to undertake an internal audit. 
Ms D appears to have tried to work with CIGNA to identity the cause of the 
discrepancies with her account too. She asked it to allow her some time to gather 
further information about the claims she suspected were fraudulent before it 
terminated her policy. And she provided it with the information asked of her. 
While I accept Ms D may not have reported the fraud she suspected to the police I 
dont think thats evidence of her submitting fraudulent claims knowingly and with 
intent to defraud. Ms D had shared her concerns with CIGNA, and shed tried to work 
with it to identify what had happened too. 
Ms D has remained consistent about her concerns and has provided evidence which 
suggests she has previously been the victim of identity theft/fraud as stated.CIGNA says it found no evidence of someone accessing Ms Ds online portal without 
login details. I understand why CIGNA would have been concerned by that but I must 
bear in mind the wording of the relevant policy terms here. I dont think it 
automatically follows that a lack of evidence to demonstrate someone logging in 
without Ms Ds login details evidences Ms D having acted knowingly and with intend 
to defraud. 
Ms D did not return the overpayments identified at the time to CIGNA. But she did 
identify the amount she thought she had been overpaid and she did appear to be 
willing to work with CIGNA to identify the inconsistencies at the time. Given the 
actions CIGNA took following its audit and the matter subsequently becoming the 
subject of a complaint, I dont think Ms D not returning the overpayment at the time is 
evidence of her acting knowingly and with intent to defraud either.  
I would like to reassure CIGNA that I do understand why it was concerned by the activity on 
Ms Ds policy and decided to take the action it did. But the policy terms set out that Ms D 
would need to have acted knowingly and with intent to defraud. And without more Im not 
persuaded CIGNA has been able to demonstrate that is what has happened on this 
occasion. So Im unable to agree it acted reasonably and I too think it needs to take steps to 
put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right I think CIGNA should:
Reinstate Ms Ds policy.
Pay the outstanding genuine claims that were made through the policy (less any 
overpayment from the fraudulent ones and subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy) plus 8% simple interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe 
SA-NV should put things right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman