DRN-3573448
The complaint
Ms M complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced her loans.
 
What happened
Ms M took four loans between May 2018 and March 2019. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 08/05/2018 14/08/2018 20 £15.00
2 £500.00 14/08/2018 14/03/2019 33 £25.00
3 £100.00 27/11/2018 outstanding 33 £5.00
4 £600.00 14/03/2019 outstanding 33 £30.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Ms Ms weekly commitment was £30. 
Ms M has had some problems repaying her final two loans and Morses has confirmed an 
outstanding balance remains due. 
Morses considered Ms Ms complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses 
investigated the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to provide 
these loans and so it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms Ms representatives didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and her 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend 
had been made for loans 1 and 2. But in the adjudicators view, loans 3 and 4 ought to not 
have been granted because the portion of Ms Ms income that would have to be used to 
make the repayments was too high and therefore the loans were likely to be unsustainable. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive read and considered what 
it said. 
Ms Ms representative confirmed that Ms M agreed with the proposed outcome.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms 
Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M agreed with the outcome that the adjudicator reached and Morses hasnt disagreed 
with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 and 2. Therefore, these loans are no longer 
in dispute so I know longer think I have to make a finding about them. But I have kept these 
loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have advanced 
loans 3 and 4. 
For loan 3 Ms M declared she had a weekly income of around £246 with outgoings of around 
£146. This left around £100 per week to make her weekly repayment of £5. Morses had 
already, in the assessment factored in the £25 weekly repayment due for loan 2.  Overall, for 
loan 3, Ms M had a weekly commitment to Morses of £30. For loan 4, Ms M declared her weekly income had slightly increased to around £254 and her 
declared weekly expenditure was around £115. Leaving just over £139 to a week to afford 
the loan repayments of £30 per week. Again, the weekly repayment for loan 3, was factored 
into Ms M declared expenditure. The total commitment to Morses, after loan 4 was advanced 
was £35
For both of these loans, Morses knew that Ms Ms income was made up of salary as well as 
benefits. Morses says it saw evidence of Ms Ms income but it hasnt provided the Financial 
Ombudsman with the evidence that it saw. 
Morses did carry out a credit check search before the first loan was granted, but no further 
credit checks were carried out after this. Given, there is no regulatory requirement for credit 
checks to be carried out before each loan. So, the fact one wasnt carried out isnt something 
I can conclude is an error on the part of Morses. But, as Ive said above, Morses needed to 
carry out proportionate checks. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend loans 3 and 4 to Ms M. Im, therefore, upholding Ms Ms complaint 
about them. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Ms M was committed to spending 
12% of her income when loans 2 and 3 was advanced and 21% of uncommitted expenditure 
when loans 3 and 4 where advanced. In my view these payments in this case were too high 
when considering what it knew about Ms Ms circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, that Ms M wouldnt have been able to 
meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Ms M wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for these loans.  Which, 
moving forward was shown, by the fact that Ms M has struggled to repay both of these 
loans.
I say this because Ms M was making a commitment to pay Morses for another 33 weeks for 
each loan and I think its fair to say that Ms Ms income was modest and partially made up of 
benefits.
On top of that, the information Morses was given suggested her income remained broadly 
similar and her other expenditure costs couldnt have been accurate because the information 
from the credit report (before the first loan) suggested that Ms M had around £1,700 of 
outstanding credit, so the £15 per weekly repayment declared was unlikely to be sufficient to 
service this debt. 
So, I think, given the concerns I have about the expenditure information Ms M provided 
along with what else Morses knew about her meant, in my view loans 3 and 4 were unlikely 
to be sustainable. 
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  I will always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Ms M had a modest income which was likely made up 
from benefits and salary that funds couldnt be lent to her but what Morses needed to do is appreciate that taking into account the commitments that she had to it and over the time 
period was in my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loans 
were sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. 
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about her final two loans and Ive 
outlined below what Morses needed to do in order to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not given Ms M loans 3 and 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms M loans 3 and 4.
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loans. If this results in Ms M 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms M. But Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat Ms M fairly and with 
forbearance  if needed.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint in part.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms M as Ive directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman