DRN-2984379
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is that Coventry Building Society (CBS) didnt inform them about 
cheaper interest rates that were available to take out on their mortgage. As a result, they feel 
theyve unfairly been charged a high variable rate of interest on their mortgage for a number 
of years. To settle the complaint, they want CBS to reimburse them for the overpaid interest.
Mr and Mrs R are represented in the complaint by their son, but for the sake of clarity, I will 
refer to Mr and Mrs R throughout.
What happened
I will summarise what happened briefly. This is because the investigator set out in detail the 
background to the complaint in her correspondence, and both parties have had a copy of 
this. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information 
that might lead to Mr and Mrs R being identified. For these reasons, I will provide only a brief 
summary of the events leading up to the complaint being brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I will also mention that we have looked at another complaint against a mortgage broker that 
Mr and Mrs R consulted in 2015. The background and ombudsmans decision on that 
complaint are relevant to this complaint, and so I will refer to whats happened on that 
complaint where appropriate.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs R say that they were never told they could 
apply for a product switch when their fixed rate came to an end in 2011. I note Mr and Mrs R 
have also now claimed the residential mortgage was mis-sold, but as that wasnt part of the 
original complaint, I wont refer to it any further here. Mr and Mrs R will need to pursue that 
as a separate complaint.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs R took out an interest-only mortgage with CBS on the advice of a 
mortgage broker. The mortgage was on an offset variable rate product, initially at a rate of 
6.39%. However, as base rate fell, the rate on the product fell and by 1 March 2009 was at 
4.09%. 
In March 2009 Mr and Mrs R borrowed additional funds to extend the property. I understand 
that this was in order to expand their bed and breakfast (B&B) business. They selected a 
new residential mortgage product at a rate of 3.99% fixed until 30 June 2011. In May 2011 
CBS wrote to Mr and Mrs R stating that the fixed rate was due to expire and that their 
mortgage would revert to a variable rate known as the Privilege Rate (PR) after 30 June 
2011. The letter invited Mr and Mrs R to contact CBS to discuss the mortgage. Mr and Mrs R 
say they didnt receive this letter and so werent aware that they could have applied for a 
new product. 
After the mortgage was on PR, annual statements were sent, along with letters each time 
the rate changed, explaining what the interest rate was and inviting Mr and Mrs R to contact 
CBS at any time to discuss the mortgage.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs undertook a financial review with their IFA, who contacted CBS asking, 
amongst other things, what basis the mortgage was on (discounted, variable or fixed rate), 
what the interest rate was and whether there was any early repayment charge. All of this 
information was provided to Mr and Mrs Rs broker. There was no request for a product 
switch at that time. 
It wasnt until April 2020 that Mr and Mrs R took out a new residential mortgage product, 
switching to a fixed rate of 1.30% until 30 June 2022.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs R sold the property and repaid the mortgage.
However, in June 2020 they complained that CBS had failed to inform them that, after their 
initial fixed rate expired in 2011, they could have switched to a new product. Mr and Mrs R 
claimed to have overpaid about £14,000 because they didnt know they could have had a 
new, lower, interest rate available to other residential mortgage borrowers.
CBS didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letters, CBS explained that it had 
written to Mr and Mrs R in May 2011 about the expiry of the fixed rate and the letter invited 
them to contact CBS to discuss other options. Furthermore, every annual statement also 
invited Mr and Mrs R to contact CBS. In addition, Mr and Mrs Rs IFA was told in 2015 about 
the position on the mortgage and so was in a position to advise them about a product switch 
at the time.
Dissatisfied with CBSs response to their complaint Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it 
should be upheld. She was satisfied CBS had provided sufficient evidence to Mr and Mrs R 
and their IFA since the fixed rate expired in 2011 to alert them that they could have applied 
for a product switch.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed, reiterating their claim that theyd never received the letter sent in 
May 2011  and demanded proof of postage. Mr and Mrs R also say that CBS is in breach of 
the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) by not treating 
them fairly.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
First, I note Mr and Mrs R had already undertaken a product switch in 2009, when they re-
arranged their existing mortgage with CBS onto a new two-year fixed rate product. Given 
this, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R knew they could switch products with CBS.
Im also satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that CBS wrote to Mr and Mrs R when their 
fixed rate product was coming to an end in May 2011. This type of letter is system-
generated, and would be part of a mass mailing to all customers on that product, as the 
product would be expiring at the same time for all customers on that rate. There is no record 
of the letter having been returned as undelivered.
Im also satisfied that the annual statements from 2011 onwards made it clear what the 
interest rate was, and invited Mr and Mrs R to discuss their mortgage with CBS. In the circumstances, Im persuaded they had sufficient information from the correspondence they 
were sent to be aware they could contact CBS to discuss a new product.
However, I also note that in 2015 Mr and Mrs R were given advice from an IFA, which 
covered, amongst other things, their mortgage. Ive looked at the advice they were given at 
the time to see if they were told about a product switch. 
The IFA was given information by Mr and Mrs R about their circumstances in 2015. He was 
told the property was being used as a B&B that they were living in a tied cottage elsewhere, 
related to Mr Rs employment on a private estate. 
However, the landowner had recently died, and although Mr R was continuing in his 
employment, he wasnt sure how long this would last or whether theyd be able to remain 
living in the tied cottage. (This information ties in with reviews on a travel website going back 
as far as 2009 where guests  mentioning Mr and Mrs R by name  refer to them living off 
site from their B&B.) Mr and Mrs R told their IFA that they might consider moving into the 
property if the tenancy on their tied cottage came to an end, but that this would reduce the 
accommodation available for B&B guests and so would impact their income.
It does not appear from the evidence that CBS was told at any point from 2009 onwards that 
Mr and Mrs R didnt live in the property, or that it was being used for commercial purposes.
I note the IFA advised Mr and Mrs R that if theyd wanted to take things further with CBS, 
this might have resulted in CBS requiring Mr and Mrs R to take out a commercial mortgage, 
given that that they werent living in the property and were using it for commercial purposes. 
In a final decision dated 19 January 2022 an ombudsman reached the following conclusion:
Mr and Mrs R have said that they didnt need a full re-mortgage with their 
lender. As they had an existing mortgage [the IFA] couldve simply 
recommended a product switch on their existing borrowing, which 
Mr and Mrs R believe would not have required a full affordability assessment 

[The IFA] said that the reason it didnt advise Mr and Mrs R to apply for a product 
switch was that it became aware, when gathering information, that their existing 
mortgage may not have been appropriate for their circumstances. So it thought [CBS] 
when it became aware of this wouldnt agree to a new product
[The IFA] identified that the existing mortgage was based on the property 
being solely residential, but a business was being carried on from there. And it 
felt, therefore,  [CBS] would not agree to a new product  and might in fact 
seek to penalise Mr and Mrs R for breaching their contract. And again, based 
on the information available to [the IFA], I think this was a reasonable 
concern
Mr and Mrs R also say [the IFA] was under no obligation to provide 
information about its knowledge of their circumstances to [CBS] if only 
applying for a product transfer, so shouldve proceeded. But I dont agree. 
[The IFA] was aware of information relevant to the circumstances surrounding 
the application. I cant agree it wouldve been right for [the IFA] to ignore this 
information or misrepresent the position to [CBS]. Nor would it have been appropriate for [the IFA] to suggest that Mr and Mrs R mislead their lender in the 
hope that this information was not checked.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R knew in 2015 about the potential of a 
product switch but were advised against it by their IFA. Rather than have the commercial 
nature of their use of the property be subject to scrutiny, Mr and Mrs R decided instead to do 
nothing and stay on PR.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that it wasnt until 2020, when Mr and Mrs R went to 
a different IFA, that they first knew they could have applied for a product switch. I think they 
knew in 2009 when they switched to the product which expired in 2011, and they definitely 
knew in 2015 when they were given advice by their first IFA. Given that they were told in 
2015 by their IFA that they would have to disclose to CBS they were running a business 
from the property, and that this might impact on CBSs lending decision, Mr and Mrs R 
decided instead to remain on PR. This was a choice Mr and Mrs R made  and it also meant 
that they retained the benefit of a residential mortgage product which, if CBS had known the 
true position, they would probably have had to re-finance to a commercial lender in 2009.
Im satisfied that if CBS had been aware in 2011 that the property was being used as a B&B 
and Mr and Mrs R werent living there, that they would not have been entitled to switch to 
another residential mortgage product at that time either. I note Mrs R has claimed that in 
2015 only 40% of the property was being used for commercial purposes, but that does not 
correlate with what they told the IFA in 2015. On balance, I prefer the contemporaneous 
evidence compiled by the IFA in 2015 as being the more reliable account of how the 
property was being used.
It wasnt until May 2020 during the investigation of the complaint  and a month after the 
product switch had taken place  that CBS first became aware that the property might have 
been used for commercial purposes. I am told that Mrs R wrote to CBS on 1 June 2020 
stating that no part of the property was being used as a B&B. I dont know if this was correct 
at the time  the latest review online is from March 2020  but I find it was disingenuous for 
Mr and Mrs R to suggest the property was wholly residential when it had been run, from at 
least 2009, as a B&B. 
This also means that Mr and Mrs R had the benefit of residential mortgage interest rates, as 
well as regulatory protection under MCOB, that would not have been available to them if 
CBS had been made aware of the commercial use of the property from 2009 onwards. So 
rather than Mr and Mrs R having overpaid interest as they claim to have done, I think its 
likely they have probably paid far less interest than they would have done if theyd taken out 
a commercial mortgage for their business. Commercial mortgage interest rates are generally 
higher than the rates offered to borrowers who are taking out a mortgage on the home they 
are buying as their main residence.
CBS has confirmed that it does not offer commercial mortgages, so it would have required 
Mr and Mrs R either to re-mortgage to a commercial lender, or to move back into the 
property and occupy it as their main residence. As the property has now been sold, the 
mortgage has been repaid in full to CBS. 
After consideration of all the evidence, Im unable to find CBS has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman