DRN-3208826
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wont pay for all the 
repairs to his van following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an incident when debris hit his van and it was taken for repairs. The 
first engineers assessment included accident-related damage to the vans steering rack and 
rear springs. RSAs approved repairer then assessed the van and rejected the claim for 
damage to the steering rack and rear springs as the engineer thought these werent 
accident-related, but due to wear and tear. 
Mr B accepted that the springs were corroded but disagreed that the steering rack wasnt 
damaged in the accident. RSA had a second engineer review the first engineers report and 
he rejected the claim for the steering rack. To settle the dispute, the parties agreed to have 
the van inspected at a garage of Mr Bs choice. This garage also rejected the claim for the 
steering rack. But Mr B thought the garage wasnt impartial. Mr B took the van to a further 
garage which said the steering rack had damage from the accident. But RSA would only pay 
him cash in lieu for the damage it said was accident-related. 
our investigators view
Our investigator initially didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
RSAs evidence was more persuasive that the steering rack hadnt been damaged in the 
accident. RSA said it had confirmation from the first garage that inspected the van that the 
steering rack damage was unrelated to the accident, but this wasnt substantiated. 
Mr B then provided an engineers report that explained how the steering rack had been 
damaged in the incident. RSAs engineer reviewed this report, but it rejected it because of 
evidence of a long-standing oil leak. RSA said its engineer had assessed the van physically. 
Mr B then provided further photographs of the underneath of his van,
Our investigator then recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that Mr B 
had replaced the steering rack a year earlier and he thought it unlikely that wear and tear 
would have caused the damage noted to it in this time. He thought that Mr Bs engineers 
report provided persuasive and plausible evidence for how the damage had occurred in the 
incident. And so he thought RSA should reimburse Mr B for his repair and inspection costs, 
with interest, and pay him £300 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
RSA replied that it disagreed and provided further detailed comments from its engineers 
rejecting the claim. Mr B replied that he wanted about £4,000 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused him and for the effect on his business. He later provided a detailed 
account for much of these costs. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to RSA on 26 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr B felt frustrated and disappointed by RSAs decision not to pay for 
all the repairs to his van. I could see that hed gone to considerable trouble and expense to 
support his position that the steering rack was damaged in the incident.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The first garage included in its list of repairs damage to the rear springs, which was later 
found to be due to corrosion. It also said the steering rack had been damaged. I thought it 
was unclear whether or not this garage later retracted this view as I hadnt seen any 
evidence to show this. But I thought the inclusion of other unrelated damage in its 
assessment threw doubts on its accuracy. So I thought it was reasonable for RSA to 
discount this.
RSAs approved repairer rejected the claim for the steering rack. Mr B provided a note from 
his repairer, but I couldnt see that this was supported by any evidence of how the damage 
may have occurred. And RSAs engineer carried out an inspection and came to the same 
conclusion that the damage to the steering rack was due to wear and tear. His view was 
confirmed by a senior engineer. 
As Mr B still objected, RSA allowed him to select an independent engineer to assess the 
van. I thought that was a fair and reasonable way to resolve a dispute between a consumer 
and an insurer about repairs. Mr B was unhappy with the outcome and questioned the 
assessors impartiality. But I didnt see any evidence to show that the assessor was 
influenced by RSA or biased against Mr B. So I thought it was reasonable for RSA to rely on 
this report. 
Mr B then had repairs made but retained the parts. He had a further garage examine the 
steering rack and it thought there was impact damage. But this garage didnt provide any 
photographs or evidence to show that this had occurred in the incident. So I thought RSA 
reasonably rejected this.
Mr B then obtained a further engineers report to support his view. RSAs engineer 
considered this and provided a detailed response. I understand that Mr B has made a 
subject access request to RSA for his file. In summary, the engineer noted, supported by 
photographs taken when the van was intact:
Mr Bs report was based on photographs whilst he had made a physical inspection of the 
van.
A damaged gaiter had allowed dirt to enter and corrode the steering shaft leading to 
premature failure of the seal and then an oil leak over some time.
The van is protected by its undertray and there is little opportunity for any substantial 
debris to pass through the small gap between the mechanical components. The gaiter is 
hidden by the undertray. 
The rack gaiter is rugged and wouldnt rip when hit by a foreign body. Theres evidence 
that a piece of rubber was removed using a sharp object, possibly during the fitting of the 
steering rack replacement. 
Early stages of failure of the steering rack is supported by the uneven wear on the 
drivers front tyre. The track rod had been rotated 180 degrees in Mr Bs photographs throwing doubt on 
the accuracy of the report and its conclusions. 
From its condition and corrosion, the steering rack was most likely to have been 
reconditioned when Mr B replaced it twelve months before the accident.
So there were reports from the independent engineer, and RSAs engineers supporting its 
decision not to accept the claim for accident damage to the steering rack as it was due to 
wear and tear. Mr B provided a further report. But I think RSA reasonably considered this 
and still maintained its position. 
So I was satisfied that RSA had reasonably considered all the evidence available and 
justified its decision not to pay for the repairs to the steering rack. And, as I didnt think RSA 
had acted wrongly, I didnt require it to refund Mr B for these repairs or to pay him any 
compensation. RSA had already offered to pay for the cost of the other repairs based on its 
engineers estimate. I thought that was fair and reasonable. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor RSA had any further comments to make. So I can see no reason to change 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman