DRN-2893520
The complaint
P, a charity, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reinstate its Community account. 
What happened
In 2019, P applied for a Community account with Barclays. The Community account is 
available for small not-for-profit organisations and offers free banking.
Barclays sent P a welcome letter in March 2019. A month later, Barclays told P that it would 
have to reapply. P completed the bank mandate change request to avoid any delays.
In April 2020, P noticed that Barclays had charged fees on the bank account. It told Barclays 
that it had understood Ps account was free.
In May 2020, Barclays told P that it wasnt eligible for a Community account due to the 
number of officials listed by P. Barclays said it had written to P in December 2019 to 
confirm the date on which it would start charging.
The investigator recommended that Ps complaint be upheld. He thought that when Barclays 
confirmed the bank mandate request in April 2019, it was at this point Ps account was 
changed from a Community account to a business account. 
The investigator agreed that P wasnt eligible for the Community account, but he thought it 
wasnt reasonable for Barclays not to explain the fact the account had been changed from a 
Community account to a normal business account. The investigator said that P didnt receive 
Barclays letter of December 2019 informing it that the free banking period would end in 
March 2020.
The investigator asked Barclays to refund the charges on the account and allow a further 
three months free to give P time to switch accounts if it chose to.
Barclays disagrees with the proposed outcome. It says the only change was the tariff to be 
applied and that it gave P clear notice of this. Barclays points out that the Community 
account tariff document confirms the account is classed as a business current account 
regardless of the tariff applied. So, Barclays doesnt think it was confusing when it referred to 
Ps account as a business account. Barclays says that P initially received free banking but is 
no longer eligible for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I should first deal with the question of whether Barclays should reinstate Ps 
Community account. Barclays Community Tariff terms say that the account doesnt apply to 
those organisations with more than three officials (irrespective of how many you wish to 
register on your Community Account). As P listed more than three officials or trustees, I 
accept that it isnt eligible for the Community account. This means I dont require Barclays to 
reinstate the account.
Now I will consider whether Barclays did anything wrong, and if so, whether the 
investigators recommendation on how to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
I think the starting point must be when Barclays initially opened Ps account.  Barclays sent 
P an email on 1 March 2019 welcoming it to Barclays Community Banking. From this point 
on, it was reasonable of P to understand that it had been given a Community account which 
included free banking and no maintenance fee. And I cant see that Barclays told P that it 
was in fact not eligible for the Community account until after it had complained about the 
charges in early 2020.
I appreciate that Barclays wrote to P in December 2019 to notify it of the changes in tariff in 
March 2020, but P says that it didnt receive this letter. I cant hold the postal service 
responsible for any failure to deliver a letter. However, the letter from December 2019 is 
addressed to Ps postal address rather than The Officials of P as other correspondence 
had been addressed previously  including the welcome letter of 1 March 2019. This means 
its possible that P didnt get to see the letter, as if it had, I think it likely P wouldve contacted 
Barclays much sooner than it did.
 
Im also not persuaded that Barclays letter of December 2019 is as clear as it couldve been. 
It refers to Your Business Current Account and makes no reference to the Community 
account and the account number is only partially set out. The letter doesnt explain that P 
isnt eligible for the Community account. Instead it refers to a period of free banking that has 
now come to an end. Although the Community account is classed as a business account, I 
dont think this would have been obvious to P even if it had received Barclays letter.
Overall, I consider that Barclays couldve done more to make P aware of the change in 
circumstances. As Im not satisfied that P was aware of the new charging tariff, I consider it 
reasonable to require Barclays to refund the fees that it has charged. And if P hasnt 
changed bank accounts yet, Barclays should offer it up to three months free banking.
 
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
refund the bank charges that it has applied to Ps account; and
offer up to three months free banking if P has not yet changed account
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to take the steps outlined above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman