DRN-2119204
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc misinformed him about how long it would take a 
cheque to clear, and continued to send him correspondence after it had told him it would 
close his account and continued to do so after he had asked for it to stop.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C paid a cheque into one of his Santander accounts, and asked how 
long it would take to clear. He says he was told it would clear the next day. The next day, 
just after 4pm, he tried to make a purchase using his debit card for the same account, but it 
was declined due to insufficient funds, which would not have happened if the cheque had 
cleared. This caused him some embarrassment. Shortly afterwards he tried to withdraw 
money from an ATM, with the same result.
Mr C went to the same branch where he had paid the cheque and complained. He asked to 
see a manager and was told that no managers were available, but later on a manager saw 
him, and so Mr C complained that he had been lied to. Later during his visit, the branch staff 
called the police (they say because Mr C had become aggressive), and Mr C left when the 
police arrived. The police took no official action, and Mr C says that is because he had done 
nothing wrong. He complained about that too.
As a result of what had happened in the branch, Santander decided to close Mr Cs account, 
and it gave him 30 days notice in writing. However, as a result of the coronavirus lockdown 
Santander changed its mind and kept his account open. This meant that Mr C continued to 
receive correspondence from Santander. He complained about that, but Santander said that 
it was not possible to stop all correspondence, partly in order to comply with legal and 
regulatory requirements to send certain letters and statements, and partly because it was not 
possible to stop correspondence on one account without also stopping correspondence on 
Mr Cs other account (which Mr C did not want to happen). By way of apology for this issue, 
Santander paid Mr C £40 compensation. But it did not uphold his other complaints, and so 
Mr C brought this complaint to our Service.
Santander told us that it was unlikely that its staff would have told Mr C the wrong timescale 
for a cheque to clear. It also said that according to its records, Mr C had also asked about 
cheque clearance timescales a couple of weeks before, so he ought to have known that his 
cheque would clear at the end of the next working day, whatever he was told the second 
time hed asked. Santander said that there had not been a branch manager in the branch at 
the time of Mr Cs visit, and the person he had spoken to was a more junior kind of manager.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that Santander had told Mr C the 
correct timescales when he had first asked about them on 5 February, and so he thought 
that Mr C would have known that the new cheque would not have cleared by the time he 
tried to spend the funds the next day. He listened to several call recordings and noticed that 
the calls were often ended by Santander because Mr C became aggressive, so the 
investigator thought that Mr C probably had become aggressive in the branch and that it had 
been reasonable for the branch staff to call the police. He accepted that Santander had had 
adequate reasons for continuing to send letters to Mr C, and he thought that £40 was fair 
compensation for wrongly telling him that the letters would stop. (He noted that Santander 
had since decided to close Mr Cs account after all.)
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I would expect Santanders staff to be able to tell Mr C the correct timescale for a 
cheque to clear, the only evidence before me about what Mr C was told on 18 February is 
what Mr C has told us. So I accept that he may have been told that the cheque would clear 
the next day, instead of at the end of the next day. However, as I have said, Mr C had asked 
the same question about two weeks earlier, and he raised a complaint about being 
misinformed on that occasion as well. I have listened to the recording of the phone call on 6 
February in which he was told that his complaint was not being upheld. In that call, Mr C was 
clearly told that a cheque would clear by the end of the next working day. He disputed that 
that was what he had been told the day before, but I dont need to decide what he was told 
on 5 February. He was certainly told the correct timescale on 6 February, and its not 
unreasonable to expect him to remember it two weeks later.
Three members of branch staff have written down their recollections of what happened 
during the branch visit. They all describe Mr C as being aggressive, and that he caused 
them to be alarmed for their safety. Two of them heard Mr C say he would deal with one of 
them outside, which I take to be a threat of violence, so its not surprising that they called the 
police. I have no difficulty in believing what the staff say about that incident, because I have 
listened to another recording of a call Mr C made on 25 June 2020, in which he was also 
aggressive. At the beginning of that call, he said:
Im going to disrespect anyone, anyone right, who dont do what I want them to do.
Later on in the call, he persistently shouted and swore at the call handler, and subjected him 
to a tirade of unpleasant and racist abuse, until the call handler finally ended the call, after 
having exhibited a high degree of patience and courtesy. Mr C also told the call handler that 
if he received any more correspondence from Santander then he would go into the branch 
and there would be a massive kick-off. (He said this twice.) When the call handler objected 
to his behaviour, Mr C replied you wouldnt talk to me like that if you was in front of me, trust 
me. He said the same thing again shortly later.
I think these comments were unmistakeably threats of violence directed against Santanders 
staff. The content and tone of everything Mr C said in the latter part of the call was 
unequivocally aggressive and hostile, and totally unjustifiable. So I am quite satisfied that 
Mr C behaved exactly as he is alleged to have behaved while he was in the branch, and that 
it was entirely reasonable of the branch to call the police, and to decide to close his account. 
I attach no weight at all to the fact that the police did not arrest him. The police dont have to 
automatically arrest anyone who is committing an offence under the Public Order Act if there 
is a more proportionate alternative, such as persuading him to leave the scene, which the 
police have confirmed is what they did.
For these reasons, I also think it was reasonable of Santander to change its mind about 
closing Mr Cs account, because Santander did not wish to leave him in a vulnerable position 
when the lockdown started. Its regrettable that the bank told him that he would receive no 
correspondence when this was not in fact correct or even possible, but I think an apology 
was enough for that, and £40 compensation was more than enough. If Mr C didnt want to receive anything from Santander then he could have asked to close his account, so I dont 
really see what the matter is. Its neither realistic nor sensible to expect to have a bank 
account and never to receive a single letter or statement from the bank, ever. Santander has 
since closed his account anyway, so the issue (I wont call it a problem) wont recur.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. But if we dont hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman