DRN-3844842
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her 
claim for damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J suffered damage to her property in May 2022 when water entered her home through 
the flat roof of the extension. She contacted RSA in June 2022 to make a claim on her 
insurance policy as she thought the damage had been caused by an insured storm event.
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage and validate the claim. Following this, RSA 
declined the claim as it thought that there hadnt been rainfall on the day in question, or 
weather which would fulfil the description of a storm event, and therefore said that the policy 
didnt cover the damage. Mrs J duly complained to RSA about its decision to decline her 
claim and also as it failed to contact her after its surveyor visited her home. RSA however 
maintained its stance and Mrs J therefore referred her complaint to our service.
The investigator who considered the matter didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. He discussed 
his view with Mrs J and acknowledged that he had misheard some of the background detail 
which Mrs J had provided in relation to her complaint. He made it clear that this hadnt 
affected his view. I was the investigators view that the wind speeds recorded in the fortnight 
prior to the damage wouldnt have caused roof damage capable of allowing ingress of water.
Mrs J remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to this service and the matter has 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to determine is whether RSA treated Mrs J in a fair and reasonable 
manner in applying the terms and conditions of the policy and in declining Mrs Js claim. Ive 
concluded that it did act in a fair and reasonable manner and Ill explain why.
Mrs J thought that there had been significant rain in the weeks before the leak, which had 
then dripped from the roof through the ceiling of the property and caused damage. Mrs J 
was in the process of getting the damage fixed at the time she made her complaint to this 
service, but didnt have any way to pay for this as it was going to cost around £5,000. Mrs J 
said shed paid her insurance premiums every month for 15 years and felt disappointed that 
RSW had now turned its back on her
RSA responded that it had checked the recorded weather data for the relevant area for the 
beginning of June 2022 and for the previous month. It said as follows: - We consider storm, 
as per the Beaufort Wind Scale however, we understand that slight structural damage can 
occur during winds of 47mph or more. Rain alone, will not damage the externals of your 
property however, we accept that rain of a certain intensity (16mm of rainfall an hour) can 
start to get inside. It said that such conditions hadnt occurred in this case and it therefore 
couldnt agree that Mrs Js home had suffered storm damage.
RSA said that it had appointed a surveyor at the relevant time to inspect the damage and 
validate the claim. The surveyor found no storm-related damage and so RSA said that it 
turned down the claim. It noted that the surveyors report stated that the damage to the flat 
roof was a result of poor design and/or workmanship, and the internal damage to the dining 
room ceiling was due to a defect which had happened gradually over time. RSA referred to 
its policy booklet and two of the exclusions which were noted there as follows: Any loss or 
damage caused by or from poor  workmanship, poor design or faulty materials and also 
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, anything that happens gradually, 
mechanical or electrical breakdown. It then concluded that, based on the evidence it had 
seen, it couldnt agree that a one-off storm event was the cause of the damage. RSA also 
didnt agree that there had been a lack of contact after its surveyor visited Mrs Js home as it 
said that hed already informed Mrs J on site that the claim wasnt covered and that Mrs J 
had said shed bring her concerns to RSA. 
Ive now carefully considered the available evidence and also what both Mrs J and RSA 
have said about the matter. The starting point here is that home insurance policies cover a 
number of insurance perils as standard. Mrs Js policy does cover storm damage. However, 
not all damage caused by water leaks is covered by insurance policies or by the storm peril 
and unfortunately, I dont consider that the damage is covered in this instance.
As a service, we have a settled three-stage approach to insurance claims for storm
damage. We firstly consider whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the
damage was said to have happened. The second issue to determine is whether the damage
claimed is consistent with damage which a storm typically causes. The third question for
determination is whether the storm conditions were the main or predominant cause of the
damage. Were usually guided by available expert reports in coming to a final conclusion. 
In this case, unfortunately for Mrs J, the case falls at the first hurdle, the records for the 
relevant dates and for Mrs Js area dont show any unusual weather or storm events at the 
relevant time, or indeed for the two-week period prior to this. A sound roof wouldnt allow 
water ingress, however the available expert evidence of RSAs surveyor states that the 
damage to the flat roof was caused by poor design or workmanship. On the balance of 
probabilities, Im persuaded that its likely this was the predominant cause of the damage. If 
this hadnt been the case and the damage was due to gradual deterioration of the flat roof 
through general wear and tear, this wouldnt be covered by the relevant policy either. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that RSA have correctly declined the claim, as the evidence 
doesnt support a case of storm-related damage and I cant expect RSA to cover for this.
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs J. Im also aware that the 
significant cost of repair of the damage will have to be covered by Mrs J at a difficult time. I 
can also see that Mrs J has been a loyal customer of RSAs for very many years. 
Unfortunately for Mrs J however, I can only look at whether the policy terms have been 
applied fairly. I cant consider whether an uninsured event will cause difficulties for a 
policyholder. Insurance policies do not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those 
circumstances, where unfortunately the damage wasnt covered by the policy. I cant 
therefore say that RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in handling Mrs Js claim
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Js complaint and I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman