DRN-4039116
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs B noticed she no longer had her credit card when she tried to pay for lunch whilst at 
work. Later, she checked her account and realised there were several transactions she 
didnt recognise which amounted to over £3,000.
Mrs B notified Santander about the transactions and sought a refund. Santander established 
that the disputed transactions used Mrs Bs genuine card and Personal Identification 
Number (PIN) for the card.
Mrs B told Santander that she hadnt written the PIN down or allowed anyone else to use the 
card or PIN. She remembered last using the card a few days earlier and thought that it was 
possible someone in the queue behind her had seen her enter her PIN.
Santander looked into the claim and declined to refund the payments to Mrs B. They didnt 
think the way the payments were taken followed the typical pattern of how a stolen card was 
used. Thats because the only opportunity to obtain the PIN was two days prior to its actual 
use and this was unusual because such cards are typically used immediately. 
Mrs B was left unhappy with how her claim was handled and made a complaint to 
Santander, who again looked into the matter but didnt change their position. Mrs B then 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. 
Mrs Bs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who obtained evidence from 
both parties. Mrs B repeated what had happened and firmly believed she wasnt responsible 
for the disputed transactions, stating that she wasnt in the same city as where the disputed 
transactions took place.
Santander provided details about the transactions, confirming they used the card and PIN. 
Their system also showed that no wrong PINs were entered.
Santander also said that one of the disputed transactions had taken place at a business that 
was previously used by Mrs Bs card.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt recommend Santander make any refund 
to Mrs B, commenting that there was no evidence of how her PIN was compromised. Mrs B 
disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of it. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Santander can hold Mrs B liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made 
them or authorised them. 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs B authorised 
the transactions, but Santander cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs B. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs B responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mrs B cant remember when she lost her card, but she says she never wrote the PIN down. 
So, in order for someone unknown to her to use the card and PIN, there would have to be a 
plausible reason how this could have happened. For example, someone shoulder surfing 
the PIN when she used it to make a genuine transaction and later obtaining the card. Mrs B 
thought this may be how the PIN was obtained, but the disputed transactions didnt occur 
until two days after the last time the card was used. This isnt typically how such a stolen 
card is used because the thief wouldnt know when it would be blocked, so would tend to use 
them straight away.
I understand Mrs B has said she wasnt in the same city where the disputed transactions 
took place, but she would still be responsible for the transactions if there wasnt a plausible 
and realistic explanation of how the PIN could have been obtained without her permission. If 
another person used the card and was given the PIN, then the responsibility for the use of it 
would remain with Mrs B. I cant know what actually happened because I wasnt present, so I 
have to make my decision based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities  what 
was likely to have happened.
I do think its relevant that there were no wrong PIN attempts, so whoever obtained the card 
and PIN were confident it was the correct one. Its apparent that whoever used the card, 
travelled to a nearby city to make the transactions, using the card in a car park previously 
used by Mrs B. I dont think this is particularly relevant in itself because the payment was to 
a car park, no doubt one that was popular for people travelling from the direction of Mrs Bs 
home. But, they would still have needed both the card and the PIN to carry out the 
transactions.
I understand Mrs B denies making the disputed transactions, but here, because theres no 
realistic or plausible alternative explanation how an unauthorised third party could have 
carried them out, Im unable to ask Santander to make a refund.
While Im sure Mrs B will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mrs B 
authorised or allowed her card and PIN to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Santander to hold Mrs  B 
responsible for these transactions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman