DRN-3394380
The complaint
Mr W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentTotal amount repayable
January 
2017£2,000 24 £187.86 £4508.64.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and Everyday Loans had told us and she 
thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this loan. So she recommended 
upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at this complaint.
In brief summary, Everyday Loans said that the loan was intended for debt consolidation  
in other words, Mr W said he would use the loan to repay other debt. Everyday Loans said 
that using its loan to do this wouldve reduced the amount Mr W was spending on monthly 
credit repayments down to around £170 which was a big improvement on his original debt 
servicing costs of around £2185 per month.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with the conclusion our adjudicator came 
to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr W about his income and expenses  including what he spent on 
his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand his credit history and 
find out about his existing credit commitments and it reviewed bank statements provided by 
Mr W. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ws average monthly take home pay was around £1,202 by 
working this out from looking at payslip information. Everyday Loans took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Ws likely spending and allowed for his 
monthly boarding costs which Mr W said were £150. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment showed that Mr W likely needed to 
spend some £2,835 each month  which was more than twice his income. But it took into 
account that Mr W could use the loan provided by Everyday Loans to repay eight 
outstanding loans it identified with five named creditors. Everyday Loans worked out this 
should save him more than £2000 each month and so put him in a position where he would 
have around £193 spare cash left after paying for everything instead of a monthly shortfall of 
more than £1,600.
This led Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr W. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr W should have had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mr W wasnt managing his money well - especially bearing 
in mind that Mr W had been in his job for more than a year and hed been living in with his 
parents for the last three years and paying only £150 board. It was clear that Mr W had 
become over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford without borrowing further to pay for it. To my 
mind, this shouldve alerted Everyday Loans to the risk that it couldnt safely rely on what 
Mr W had told it about how he spent his money as he clearly had unexplained levels of 
problematic debt  and it called into question whether Everyday Loans could safely rely on 
what Mr W had said about his spending plans.  
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. 
But Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Mr W used the loan as it paid the loan 
balance direct to him. Having seen the extent of Mr Ws money problems, and keeping in 
mind that the salary information Everyday Loans saw on Mr Ws bank statements suggested 
the income figure used in its affordability calculations was too high, I think it shouldve been 
apparent that there was a real risk Mr W would use the loan to meet financial demands that 
he considered the most immediate and pressing. And even if Mr W had used this loan 
entirely to repay existing debt, I dont think Everyday Loans had sufficient reason to think this 
wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable 
improvement in his financial situation, given his reliance on using credit. 
In fact, Everyday Loans was aware that part of the loan was intended to pay for a holiday  
so this wouldve reduced the amount available for debt consolidation and added to his 
overall indebtedness. I think its also fair to say that, even with the planned debt consolidation Everyday Loans 
assumed, Mr W would still need to pay such a significant portion of his income towards 
credit  by my reckoning, more than a third - Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr W 
would likely struggle to repay this loan sustainably over the loan term. 
So all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant 
reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr W. I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware 
that this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr W and recognised that it shouldnt have 
provided it. So Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr W
Whilst its fair that Mr Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman