DRN-2435026
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H have complained about the way Southern Rock Insurance 
Company dealt with their claim. Mr R, director of H, has complained on Hs behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Southern Rock will include its agents. 
What happened
Mr R claimed on Hs policy on 22 January 2020. Southern Rock said it wrote to Mr R to 
request documents, but Mr R called on 27 January 2020 to say he hadnt heard anything. 
Southern Rock said on the same day it appointed an investigator to interview Mr R about the 
claim.
Southern Rock said Mr R called again on 10 February as he hadnt heard anything from the 
investigator. Southern Rock said it put him through to the investigator then heard back from 
the investigator to say Mr R was unhappy about having a face to face interview. Southern 
Rock said Mr H didnt arrange an interview with the investigator, so it said it got in touch with 
him on 13 and 14 February 2020 to say an interview would be required. 
Mr R complained about the delays in arranging the interview. He said Southern Rock had 
provided incorrect details to the investigator which meant they hadnt got in touch. He was 
also unhappy with the interview. He didnt think it was necessary to have a face to face 
interview and felt the interview was more like an interrogation. Mr R said the interviewer also 
asked him about a previous conviction that hed thought was spent, in front of his siblings. 
Southern Rock said it had provided some incorrect details to the investigator but the postal 
address on the form had been correct and the investigator had written to Mr R on 27 January 
2020. It said he was required to assist with the investigation into the claim and didnt think 
the interview was inappropriate. 
Mr R remained unhappy and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Hs 
complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought there had been a delay of around 
10 days but didnt think this had impacted the claim. She also thought Southern Rock was 
entitled to interview Mr R about the claim. Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R has made another complaint about Hs policy later being avoided and 
Southern Rock providing him with some incorrect information. Thats been dealt with 
separately, so Im not going to comment on that in this decision.
My R has made a number of detailed points however, Im only going to comment on what I 
consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Hs policy say that Mr R needs to provide Southern Rock with 
any assistance necessary in dealing with his claim. I dont find it unusual for an insurer to 
carry out a face to face interview when investigating a theft claim, so I dont think         
Southern Rock did anything wrong in appointing an investigator to carry one out. 
Without being at the interview its impossible to know exactly what happened. But Ive seen 
the investigators report and can see that the information he asked of Mr R was in line with 
that requested by Southern Rock. Again, I dont find the information it wanted to know 
unusual. And I havent seen enough to persuade me that the investigator acted in a way that 
wasnt appropriate. 
Southern Rock dont think the conviction was spent, so I dont think it did anything wrong in 
asking Mr R about this, as it needed to validate the information hed provided when buying 
the policy. I can understand Mr Rs discomfort if this was asked while he was in the company 
of his siblings, but I think it was for Mr R to make sure he only had people around who he 
was comfortable hearing anything the investigator might have asked. 
In terms of the delay, Southern Rock said it wrote to Mr R straight away and wouldnt 
normally appoint an investigator until it had received his documents. However, when he got 
in touch on 27 January 2020 it arranged an investigator. I accept that Southern Rock 
provided some incorrect details to the investigator, but I understand the investigator wrote to 
Mr Rs correct postal address on 31 January 2020. There seems to have been some 
problem with Mr R receiving documents by post given that he called up to chase what was 
happening. So, providing the incorrect phone number and email likely did cause some delay. 
However, I dont agree that this was a significant delay that warrants any compensation. I 
say that because there was further delay as Mr R didnt feel a face to face interview was 
necessary. And ultimately any delay didnt have an impact on the claim or cause H any loss. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But Im not going to require 
Southern Rock to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman