DRN-3940762
The complaint
Ms B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system including a voltage optimiser (the system) she purchased from a 
supplier (which Ill call P). Ms B is represented by a claims management company (the 
CMC).
What happened
In November 2018, Ms B bought the system from P using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over ten years. In July 2021, Ms B engaged 
the CMC, which sent Shawbrook a letter of claim. This alleged that P had misrepresented 
the system and breached its contract with Ms B, and that Ms Bs relationship with 
Shawbrook was unfair on her because:
There were misleading figures in quotation  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim and the CMC referred a complaint about this to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our adjudicator considered the matter and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. The CMC disagreed. Because the adjudicator has been unable 
to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
I have read all of the CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions, including the point-of-sale 
documents, and taken all of this into account when making my decision.
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Ms B during the sales meeting. It was signed at 
that time, and she has confirmed that the salesperson talked her through it, emphasising the 
benefits of the system. So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely 
discussed before Ms B agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £9,175.95. However, the overall cost to Ms B was more, due to her paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 120 payments of £109.64 
per month. This was 6p per month more than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Ms B wouldve understood roughly how much the loan would cost per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 120 monthly 
payments of £109.58. It shows the total amount payable would be £13,249.60 including the 
£100.00 deposit. So, I think that the monthly and overall cost that Ms B would pay for the 
system was made clear to her and that she ought to have understood this.
Allegation  the voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Ms Bs home and how she used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. 
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used.  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Ms B could use herself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how she used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance. 
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, for the time when the quote was 
prepared, I dont think that the self-consumption rate was unreasonable or that the electricity 
savings estimate was a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the savings have 
not in fact been as high as estimated. 
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity 
bill savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think they were a 
contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system more attractive.
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit and maintenance. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in 
one of the documents that were provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that Ms B knew what she were paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was 
shown on the credit agreement. So, she could compare this to the estimated benefits when 
deciding to buy the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table and the estimated performance over 25 years 
table in the quote both did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration of the benefits of 
the system.
The repayments table showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments during the loan term. And the estimated performance table showed it would be 
about 17 years before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement.
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Ms B. I 
think the information provided to Ms B before she agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 25 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Ms B before she agreed to the purchase. 
Because of this, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I do not think it is likely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Ms B due to the way P sold the system to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman