DRN-3284610
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
what he felt were unauthorised payments on his account.
What happened
Mr M contacted Nationwide to question why there was a discrepancy as to his available 
account balance and learned that a third-party merchant had put through a transaction which 
he hadnt authorised. Mr M confirmed with Nationwide that hed authorised a transaction 
from that merchant several months before, but that he hadnt authorised any subsequent 
payments.
Nationwide advised that it may have been the case that Mr M had set up a recurring card 
transaction. Mr M didnt feel that he had set up such a recurring card transaction and asked 
Nationwide to recover the money from the recurring transactions and prevent further money 
from going out. Nationwide refused to do as Mr M wanted, and Mr M felt that Nationwide 
were siding with the merchant over him and assisting the merchant in stealing money from 
his account. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ms complaint. They felt that there wasnt enough evidence 
available to them to conclude that Mr M hadnt signed up for a recurring transaction, whether 
inadvertently or not. Nationwide asked Mr M to try to resolve the issue with the merchant in 
the first instance, after which they would potentially try to recover the money via a 
chargeback process.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide 
had acted unfairly in how it had managed the situation surrounding the disputed payments, 
and so they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its notable that the transactions that Mr M disputes here are listed on his account 
statements as all being recurring card transactions. Its clear that Mr M feels strongly that he 
didnt authorise a recurring card transaction during his initial dealing with the merchant in 
question, but I feel that its unlikely that such a recurring card transaction would be set up 
without Mr M agreeing to it with the merchant  although I acknowledge that Mr M may not 
have been aware that hed agreed to it.
It also must be noted that in allowing the recurring card transactions to continue, Nationwide 
were doing so on the instruction of the merchant, who by providing such an instruction were 
implicitly stating that Mr M himself had authorised the recurring card transactions with them.
Unfortunately, Mr M doesnt retain any of his initial correspondence with the merchant that 
would allow it to be determined whether he authorised a recurring transaction with them, or 
whether the recurring transactions were authorised erroneously by the merchant. But I am 
satisfied that in either scenario, Nationwide werent themselves accountable for setting up 
the recurring transactions on their own initiative. 
In their response to Mr Ms complaint, Nationwide explained how recurring card transactions 
worked and that it may be possible for Nationwide to attempt to recover the money as Mr M 
would like via a chargeback process. Nationwide also explained to Mr M that chargeback 
claims were governed by the rules of the debit card provider  whose corporate symbol is on 
the card  and that in this instance these rules included that Mr M must evidence that hed 
attempted to resolve the issue with the merchant before a chargeback claim could be raised.
As such, while I can appreciate how Mr M might have felt that Nationwide were unwilling to 
recover the money for him and that they were siding with the merchant against him, Im 
satisfied that this wasnt in fact the case. Rather, Nationwide were following the chargeback 
claim rules which they had to follow in order for a chargeback claim to be initiated, and these 
rules included that Mr M should try to recover the money from the merchant before starting a 
chargeback claim.
Mr M has stated that he is unhappy with the standard of service that he received when he 
spoke with Nationwide about this issue, including that Nationwide told him that they werent 
willing to protect his account. 
Standard of service can be a subjective matter, but having listened to recordings of the 
telephone calls between Mr M and Nationwide, I feel that Nationwides agents attempted to 
reasonably explain the situation to Mr M and I dont feel that Nationwide provided a level of 
service to Mr M that I would consider to be substandard. Additionally, I havent heard 
anything within those calls that suggests that Nationwide were refusing to protect Mr Ms 
account, but rather only that Nationwide explained the circumstances surrounding this 
complaint, including what they required of Mr M to be able to take the matter forwards 
themselves via a potential chargeback claim.
Mr M is also unhappy that Nationwide blocked his debit card following his attempting to use 
the card in December 2021. However, its evident that Nationwide sent Mr M a letter in 
November 2021 explaining that they had made the decision to close Mr Ms account in a 
months time, and that further letters were sent reminding Mr M of the impending account 
closure in the weeks leading up to it. As such, Im satisfied that the reason that Mr M wasnt 
able to use his debit card was because his account had been closed by Nationwide at that 
time, and that Nationwide had provided Mr M with fair notice of their intention to do so.
All of which means that, having considered all the information and evidence available to me, 
including the recorded telephone calls between Mr M and Nationwide, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide didnt instigate the recurring card transaction of their own accord, and that they 
explained to Mr M what steps he needed to take to enable a chargeback claim to be initiated 
to potentially the recover the transaction amounts as he would like.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further 
action. I note that Mr M has been able to recover the disputed funds from the merchant and 
as such Im pleased that Mr M has been able to find the financial resolution to this dispute 
that he was seeking. Finally, I hope that Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive reached the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman