DRN-3092159
The complaint
Mr H complains that he lost money because IG Index Limited allowed him to trade.
What happened
Mr H had a CFD trading account with IG. In December 2020, his account transferred to IGs 
European entity. He complained after IG closed his positions following its decision to 
discontinue small cap stocks on its platform. Specifically, Mr H complains of the following:
- IG shouldnt have allowed him to trade after a previous complaint made in 2016 when 
he suffered a large loss.
- IG shouldnt have allowed him to open positions in small cap stock if it was going to 
later decide it wouldnt support the positions.
Our Investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said that IG wouldnt have known at the 
time Mr H opened his positions in small cap stock that it would make the decision that it later 
did. The Investigator also explained that his complaint made in 2016 had dealt with the 
appropriateness of CFD trading so she didnt intend to look at that further. She also 
explained that there was no requirement for IG to have undertaken further checks on Mr H 
after this complaint but had it done so, its likely hed have still passed.
Our Investigator did conclude that IG had given Mr H incorrect information about opening a 
share dealing account, and that he had opened a new CFD account with its European entity 
in 2018. For this incorrect information the Investigator recommended IG pay Mr H £250 
compensation.
Mr H disagreed with the Investigators view. In summary he said:
- The Investigator is interpreting COBS 10 too narrowly in terms of appropriateness
- It was obvious that he was vulnerable by the way he was trading
- IG ought to have closed his account in 2016 which wouldve prevented further losses.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the Investigator. I think IG should pay Mr H £250 compensation 
but Im not upholding the substantive complaint points. Ill explain why.
Allowing Mr H to trade
The crux of this complaint is that Mr H doesnt think he shouldve been allowed to trade after 
the complaint he made in 2016. Hes explained that the complaint he made ought to have 
alerted IG to the fact he was vulnerable and it ought to have closed his account then. Ive 
considered this very carefully, but I cant see anything to show IG ought to have done 
something differently after the initial complaint.
I wont be commenting on whether CFD trading was appropriate for Mr H when he opened 
his account because this has already been considered by this service in a previous 
complaint. I can see that the 2016 complaint was about whether Mr H had agreed to the 
terms of the account, whether the account was appropriate and about the loss of money hed 
incurred on his positions. Mr H says the complaint alone showed that he was vulnerable.
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show us that he ought to have been considered 
vulnerable in 2016 by IG, which is an execution only platform. His 2016 complaint was 
prompted by him losing money on a trade  something that is commonplace with CFD 
trading and not in itself an indicator of vulnerability. I can see the Ombudsman found that 
trading was appropriate for Mr H and that IG hadnt done anything wrong. Theres no 
requirement that IG then had to carry out a further appropriateness test to determine 
whether Mr H was aware of the risks of trading. Given his previous losses, I think its clear 
he was aware of those risks when he started trading again in 2018 so it is likely that had an 
appropriateness test been completed again, hed have passed.
Mr H has said that the regulations about this  found in COBS 10A.2.  have been 
interpreted too narrowly. He believes that losses should form part of this test. I need to make 
clear at this point that IG had no obligation to carry out another appropriateness test, so I 
dont need to interpret COBS 10A.2 for the purpose of this complaint. However, for clarity, 
the regulations are clear on what firms must do to determine if CFD trading is appropriate for 
a consumer and the test is there to ensure that a consumer understands the risks involved 
with the trading theyre carrying out. There isnt a duty on IG to continually monitor Mr Hs 
trading activity to determine whether he was vulnerable. And in any event, big losses are 
commonplace in this type of trading, as are multiple trades. Whilst IG does have a duty to 
treat customers fairly, I cant see anything to suggest that it shouldve been aware of 
information that Mr H has only just shared  specifically in relation to him being a gambler. 
Allowing Mr H to open positions in small cap stock
Mr Hs recent losses were realised because positions he had opened, prior to his account 
moving to the European entity of IG, were later closed because IG discontinued the trading 
of small cap stock on its platform. I cant consider anything related to that decision to close 
the positions as it was made by IGs European entity which isnt covered by our jurisdiction 
and Mr H is aware of this. But he feels he shouldnt have been allowed to open the positions, 
or ought to have been given a warning before doing so.
I cant see any evidence which suggests that IG was aware in 2018, when Mr H opened his 
positions, that a decision would be made in 2021 to discontinue the trading of small cap 
stock. So, I dont think it had to provide specific warnings to Mr H about this when he opened 
the trades.
For all of the reasons above, I dont consider IG is liable for Mr Hs losses.
Incorrect information
IG has provided incorrect information to Mr H. It told him that he could open a share dealing 
account when this wasnt possible as he wasnt resident in the UK. It also told him that hed 
completed a second application in 2018 and passed an appropriateness test. However this 
wasnt true  Mr H already had his account in 2018 and continued to trade with IG until he 
moved over to its European entity in December 2020. I think this caused Mr H confusion and 
frustration given he felt he shouldnt have been allowed to trade. As such, I think £250 
compensation is fair and reasonable for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint. IG Index Limited must pay 
Mr H £250 compensation for some misinformation it gave him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman