DRN-2738114
The complaint
Mr F and Ms H have complained about their home insurer Allianz Insurance Plc as it 
handled their water damage claim badly causing them a lot of upset.
What happened
In February 2019 water leaked into Mr F and Ms Hs home from the flat above. They made a 
claim and Allianz, having initially asked them to source quotes, which Mr F and Ms H were 
unable to do, sent a loss adjuster to their home on 25 February 2019. The claim was 
accepted and Mr F and Ms H were advised the reinstatement work would take around three 
weeks during which time theyd have to live in alternative accommodation. Unfortunately the 
claim took much longer than that. In summary theyve said:
The works didnt start until May 2019.
The work was poor with a series of incompetent sub-contractors.
The work wasnt managed properly.
Contractors lied.
Promises were broken.
Their safety and security were put at risk.
The accommodation arrangements were poorly handled.
They werent able to return home until November 2019.
When the family did return home, Mr F raised concerns with Allianz about a wall which it had 
repaired. He didnt think it had been repaired properly and quite quickly noted issues such as 
bubbling paint. It took months for Allianz to act on his concerns but, in July 2020, a surveyor 
visited their home and found the wall had been improperly repaired.
Across two final responses issued in December 2019 and July 2020 (with Mr F and Ms H 
having first contacted this service in April 2020), Allianz apologised for the poor work, delays 
and failings which had occurred, and which it accepted had caused Mr F and Ms H a lot of 
upset. Allianz said it was going to sort a way forwards for the repairs and that it would pay 
£2,500 compensation. Regarding outstanding costs it said these would be reviewed.
Mr F and Ms H remained unhappy. They noted Allianz had referred to their extreme worry 
and hassle and didnt feel Allianz really understood what it had put them through. They said 
it wasnt fair that Allianz was looking to have the same contractors do the re-work  but 
during the course of their complaint to us, Mr F and Ms H agreed that way forwards with 
Allianz and the re-work began. Mr F and Ms H said as well as the enormous disruption and 
worry, they lost earnings and wanted Allianz to pay various household bills which it had 
refused to pay. Overall, they wanted to be confident Allianz had learnt from its mistakes.
When asked Allianz showed us that it had settled with Mr F and Ms H for some out of pocket 
expenses theyd had  but that it hadnt agreed to pay for others as Mr F and Ms H hadnt 
had to pay any more than usual for them. But regarding gas and electricity it said it would 
cover the cost of extra usage if Mr F and Ms H could show it what their normal outlay was.
Our investigator felt Allianz had let Mr F and Ms H down by its poor handling of their claim. 
But he noted the significant compensation offered by Allianz and felt that was fair and 
reasonable recompense in the circumstances. He explained that it wouldnt be fair to make 
Allianz reimburse lost earnings and that he felt its approach to covering the cost of bills had 
been fair. Also that this service is not the regulator, so we dont fine or punish businesses.
Mr F and Ms H remained unhappy. They felt the sum offered didnt take into account the 
extent of what Allianz had put them through with its intense and protracted failures. They 
explained why Mr F had needed to manage the work, meaning hed been unable to take on 
new employment, and that Ms H had had to use annual leave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive bulleted some of the key failings of Allianz above as reported by Mr F and Ms H. But Id 
like to assure Mr F and Ms H that this is meant in no way to detract from what theyve been 
through to the point of Allianz final response in July 2020. I can see that what should have 
been a relatively simple and quick claim has become something very different to that, and 
that theyve suffered markedly as a result. All due to failures of Allianz. But I also see that 
Allianz has accepted it failed Mr F and Ms H. Whilst they dont believe it really has 
understood the impact its failures have had on them, I think it has  both the language it has 
used and the level of compensation offered satisfy me that is the case.
Id also add that we are not the regulator. We dont make awards to fine or punish 
businesses, or with a view to making them change the way they act. Nor can we impose 
sanctions on a business. Rather we look at what happened; the failures which occurred and 
the distress and inconvenience they caused. We then consider what compensation should 
be paid to fairly and reasonably make up for that upset. Our awards have to be consistent 
and only in the most extreme of cases, usually where the businesss failings have had very 
severe, long-term, life changing impacts, do we award £5,000 or more. 
Taking everything into account, I think Allianz offer of £2,500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im not going to make it pay anything more. 
I appreciate that Mr F felt he needed to manage this claim. And I think its fair to say that his 
involvement did help it progress. But I cant reasonably make Allianz pay for earnings he 
might have earnt but didnt because he chose to focus on resolving the claim. It was a 
difficult position, with a difficult choice to make, but it was Mr Fs choice to handle the 
situation that way. And whilst Ms H took leave from work on occasions, she didnt lose 
income. 
Insurance is designed to put the policyholder back into the position they always would have 
been in but for the loss. And even where an insurer fails to perform that contract adequately, 
it isnt reasonable for the policyholder to gain from that. Mr F and Ms H always had to pay for 
things like broadband and council tax at their home, when they moved to alternative 
accommodation, they didnt pay for those services there, so Allianz refusal to cover the 
normal costs they would always have had to pay regardless of the loss, is reasonable. 
Likewise it isnt unreasonable for Allianz to ask for proof of usage for gas and electricity so it 
can determine how much more was used due to the claim. Whilst I know Mr F and Ms H pay 
a set amount each month, Im not persuaded this means they cant provide that detail. I say 
that as such an arrangement is still usually based on usage  otherwise the energy company 
doesnt know its being paid the right amount. I understand there have been further problems for Mr F and Ms H since the re-work began. 
Im sorry to hear that and hope its been, or is, possible for the situation to be resolved. 
However, if the parties cant resolve things even with Allianz having had chance to consider 
Mr F and Ms Hs new complaint, they can make a further complaint to this service for us to 
consider.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman