DRN-2207026
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C (the complainants) say Russell Gibson Financial Management Limited 
(RG) gave them unsuitable advice to invest, for an Inheritance Tax (IHT) planning 
purpose, in a Business Property Relief (BPR) investment scheme. They say the investment 
was too risky for them and that it defeated their objective to retain access to the invested 
amount.
What happened
The complainants were advised by RG in July 2016 and RG recommended investments in 
three BPR schemes. They followed the recommendation and invested as follows  £50,000 
in Oxford Capital (in July 2016), £50,000 in Octopus Investments (in August 2016) and 
£50,000 in Time Advance Investments (in August 2016). Their complaint is about the Oxford 
Capital investment and it arose from the suspension of the scheme in early 2019. They 
reacted to that event by liquidating their investments in the other two schemes in April 2019, 
but the same has not been possible for their Oxford Capital investment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and took the view that the suitability (or 
otherwise) of all three BPR investments should be addressed. She concluded mainly as 
follows:
The complaint should be upheld as all three BPR investments were unsuitable for the 
complainants.
Their profile at the time of the recommendation was  they were in their early 50s 
with one dependent child (and another who was a non-dependent); they had a 
moderate attitude to risk (ATR); they were reasonably experienced in advised 
investments; their objective included the mitigation of future IHT liability; and record 
of RGs financial planning review and suitability report confirms that they wanted to 
retain access to their invested capital and that they wanted to reduce risks in the 
venture as much as possible.
BPR investments are generally considered to have high risks, including high risks of 
illiquidity. These aspects conflicted with the complainants objectives to reduce risks 
and to have access to their invested capital, so the three BPR schemes 
recommended to them were unsuitable. RGs suitability report features information 
that presents these conflicts, but it appears that they were played down to the 
complainants at the time of the recommendation. Had that not been the case and 
had these conflicts been properly explained to them they would not have invested in 
the three BPR schemes and, given their ages, they had the benefit of time which 
would have favoured other IHT planning solutions.
The complainants should be paid redress, by RG, for the unsuitable investments they 
were recommended.
The complainants welcomed this outcome, but RG disputed it. In the main, RG said:
Ample warnings about risks in the BPR schemes and about their potential illiquidity 
were given (with explanations) to the complainants at the time of advice. It is wrong 
to say these risks were not properly explained to them. To the contrary, they 
understood the risks and wilfully accepted them  especially in relation to the Oxford 
Capital investment  because the lack of accessibility (to their capital) was coupled 
with the prospect of highest possible growth, which they chose to pursue; and 
because there was better accessibility in the other two schemes.
In terms of the Oxford Capital investment, only 2% of their net wealth was 
inaccessible for a period of time.
The BPR investments gave them an instant IHT relief, without having to wait for the 
qualifying period of two years, because the capital used for them had been realised 
from liquidation of a qualifying business they previously owned. In this context, their 
ages at the time of advice was irrelevant  as the IHT benefit was immediate.
Alternative IHT planning solutions were considered for them; they were unwilling to 
pay premiums for whole of life/life assurance policies; RG also recommended usage 
of their IHT annual exemptions and recommended a Trust for the benefit of their 
children; the BPR investments were simply another element of the wider IHT 
planning advice they were given and they consumed only 6% of their total net wealth 
at the time.
It is true that BPR investments are generally considered to have high risks, but the 
three schemes recommended to them had lower than average risks in this respect.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion given by the investigator for broadly 
similar reasons. I uphold the complainants complaint.
RGs submissions to this service have included references to its credentials, to its history of 
work for the complainants (and other clients) and to the experience and knowledge it applies 
to its investment recommendations. Nothing in this decision is intended to question any of 
these references. The task before me is to address the complainants complaint and, like the 
investigator, I am satisfied that their complaint about the unsuitability of the Oxford Capital 
fund, because it was a BPR investment, inevitably calls into question the suitability of the 
other two BPR funds  so I have considered the suitability of the 2016 recommendation as a 
whole.
Another preliminary point to make is that I accept RGs argument that risk warnings  about 
the BPR fund  were prominently presented to the complainants. I also consider that merit 
could be equally shared between the investigators observation that the risks appeared to 
have been played down to the complainants and RGs counter argument that the risks were 
wilfully undertaken by them because of the prospects of higher returns. 
It is possible for both to have been the case, whereby discussions between the parties at the 
time  led by RG  paid less attention to the risks and more to the potential returns. 
Irrespective of this, it remains the case that RG was the expert in the relationship, it was the 
firm charged with the regulated duty of giving the complainants suitable investment advice. 
As such, suitability of its recommendation remains the issue to determine. I have not seen 
evidence of the complainants insisting upon an unsuitable investment approach or any 
investment approach. Instead, evidence shows they were led by, and followed, RGs advice 
 so there is no evidence that RG recommended the BPR funds because the complainants 
insisted upon them. This means RGs responsibility to give suitable advice was not diluted at 
the point of advice and was not shared with the complainants.It cannot reasonably be disputed that the complainants had a moderate ATR and that they 
sought an IHT planning solution that avoided high risks. RGs suitability report confirms both 
and says they sought an IHT planning solution that  minimises risk as much as possible. 
It also cannot reasonably be disputed that the complainants wanted to retain access to their 
invested capital. The report repeats this a number of times and says they wanted  the 
flexibility to access this investment if ever the funds are required.
RG was fully aware of the complainants profile and objectives. It was therefore a matter of 
misguidance on its part to present an unsuitable investment recommendation that directly 
conflicted with key aspects of their profile and objectives. I understand the positive aspects 
of the recommendation that RG has highlighted, but they do not outweigh the significant 
breaches of the complainants instructions to avoid high risk and to maintain accessibility to 
their capital.
The BPR funds did not match the notion of minimising risk as much as possible. RG accepts 
that they are generally high-risk investments. Its suitability report in 2016 described them as 
high-risk investments and gave reasons for this description. RG was advising clients with a 
moderate ATR who had expressly asked for investments which avoided high risks so, as I 
said above, its recommendation of these funds was unsuitable and misguided. Unsuitability 
of the recommendation was compounded by the fact that the complainants also expressly 
required liquid investments. The recommendation of funds with high risks of illiquidity was a 
grave mismatch.
The size of the complainants net wealth which was allocated to the three BPR funds does 
not alter the above findings  the funds inherently mismatched their profile and key aspects 
of their objectives. The same point applies in response to RGs argument about the other 
IHT planning solutions it addressed in 2016  that argument also does not alter the above 
findings. As the investigator noted, the complainants were of ages which did not give rise to 
urgency in their IHT planning pursuit  available evidence suggests they were also in good 
health at the time  so the range of potential IHT planning solutions that RG could have 
recommended was not so limited as to justify the BPR related recommendation.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I consider that RGs recommendation of the 
three BPR funds to the complainants in 2016 was unsuitable.
Putting things right
In deciding what is fair compensation for the complainants my aim is to put them as close as 
I can to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable 
advice by RG. Based on their IHT planning objective in 2016 I am persuaded that, on 
balance, they would have retained the same objective but behaved differently. 
What they would have done differently cannot be concluded with certainty. I consider that 
they would not have invested in the BPR funds, but because it is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done instead the benchmark comparison exercise ordered 
below becomes appropriate. I am satisfied that what I have set out below is a fair basis for 
compensation given the complainants profile at the time. 
what must RG do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, RG must:
Compare the performance of the complainants investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the complainants the difference between the fair value and the actual value of each investment. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Pay any interest on the compensation as set out below. 
Conduct a separate calculation for each investment.
Provide the details of the calculations to the complainants in a clear and simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investments Status BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
Interest
The 
complainants 
three BPR funds 
 in Oxford 
Capital, Octopus 
Investments and 
Time Advance 
Investments     Mixed (Oxford 
Capital still exists; 
Octopus 
Investments and 
Time Advance 
Investments have 
been surrendered)The FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total 
Return Index)Dates 
investments 
began Date of settlement 
for Oxford Capital; 
Dates surrendered 
for Octopus 
Investments and 
Time Advance 
InvestmentsNot 
applicable 
for Oxford 
Capital; For 
Octopus 
Investments 
and Time 
Advance 
Investments 
8% simple 
per year 
from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided the complainants agree to RG taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for RG to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from the complainants that they repay it any amount they 
may receive from the investment in future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The complainants had a moderate based (medium) ATR so they were prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return. Any investment decisions they would have 
made in the context of IHT planning would probably have reflected this.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds, and would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that this benchmark would reasonably put the complainants into a position 
that broadly reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from investments 
suited to their profile.
Any additional interest is for the complainants being deprived of the use of the 
relevant compensation amount.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs and Mrs Cs complaint. I order Russell Gibson 
Financial Management Limited to pay them compensation as set out above and to provide 
them with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman