DRN-1720306
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it settled a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in an incident while reversing in a car park outside a garage a few years 
ago. He didnt think he caused the accident but his wife called his insurer to provide an 
overview of what happened. Admiral looked into things and held Mr P at fault for the 
accident. 
But as Mr P didnt hear anything more about the incident, he didnt think the claim had gone 
ahead. So he was surprised to find out at a later stage that a claim had been recorded on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and the claim was impacting on his 
premiums. So, Mr P complained to Admiral and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
Admiral had acted reasonably in deciding liability and felt that it updated Mr P around the 
time of the incident to this effect.  
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. And focus on Mr Ps key issue 
of liability, and the communication around that. 
Under the policy terms Admiral has the right to take over the settlement of any claim. So, it 
has the right to decide whether to take a third party to court or settle a claim. And legal 
proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain. As such, it 
isnt always commercially sensible to take a third party to court.
It isnt the role of this service to decide liability. But our general approach is to look to ensure 
insurers act fairly. We expect them to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear 
understanding of the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. 
So, Ive carefully looked at how Admiral handled Mr Ps claim. And Im satisfied it carried out 
a reasonable investigation in the circumstances. I know Admiral mistakenly said that Mr P 
told it about the circumstances surrounding the incident when it was in fact his wife. But she 
was a named driver under the policy and was in the car at the time of the incident. And 
Admiral clearly told her when the notification call was made that Mr P would be held at fault 
for the accident. This was because there was damage to the third-party vehicle that they alleged was caused while Mr P was reversing, and the third party had an independent 
witness to support their position.
Furthermore, Admiral sent notification that Mr P would be held at fault for the accident in its 
letters and emails shortly after the incident. It is unfortunate that Mr P didnt receive any of 
these but there is no reason to doubt that they were sent. Plus, Mr Ps wife was told that he 
would be held at fault for the incident during the notification call. I know Mr P has disputed 
whether his wife had his authority, but I think Admiral acted reasonably in accepting what 
she said in the call as Mr P couldnt speak on the phone. And Mr P couldve contacted his 
insurer to find out what was happening if he was unsure about how the claim was settled 
and he was obligated to tell his insurer about the incident in any event.  
So, I cant say Admiral has acted unreasonably here. Mr P had reversed his car in a car park 
and the other drivers car had sustained damage and had an independent witness. As such, 
I think it acted fairly in settling the third partys claim. 
I know Mr P feels that the claim shouldve been discussed with him and that he shouldve 
been sent a claim form. But that isnt always necessary. And as Mr P was reversing; there 
was damage to the other car; and there was an independent witness supporting the third 
party I think Admiral acted reasonably. It simply looked to finalise things quickly and to keep 
the costs of the claim down which I would expect it to do.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman