DRN-2426143
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered 
him for his stolen car.
  
What happened
Mr Ps car was stolen and so he made a claim under his Admiral motor insurance policy. 
Admiral accepted his claim and ultimately valued his car at £71,380. But it deducted 10% 
from this because Mr Ps car didnt have a current MOT certificate when it was stolen. This 
reduced Admirals settlement offer to £64,242.
Mr P complained to Admiral. He thought its valuation was unfairly low as it didnt take 
account of his cars special features or that it was a limited edition. And said hed been 
unable to MOT his car because hed been abroad and then the coronavirus lockdown 
happened  he thought Admiral should make a fixed deduction rather than a percentage of 
his cars value. 
Admiral didnt change its position. It said its MOT deduction was a business decision itd 
made and Mr P had sufficient time to arrange an MOT for his car between returning to the 
country and lockdown. Admiral also said it had taken account of the specification and rarity 
of Mr Ps car, and had offered him market value for it based on motor trade valuation guides. 
Mr P remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld 
Mr Ps complaint. He said while Admiral had offered Mr P a fair and reasonable valuation for 
his car, 10% was an unreasonably large deduction to make for not having a valid MOT. Our 
investigator said £100 was fairer instead, as hed not seen any evidence that Mr Ps car 
wouldnt have passed the MOT. 
Mr P agreed with our investigator. But Admiral disagreed, saying the issue wasnt whether 
Mr Ps car would pass an MOT, but was instead that not having a valid MOT reduced the 
value of his car. Admiral said its 10% deduction was industry standard and in line with 
opinions previously given by our service in other cases.
As Admiral disagreed, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr P accepted our investigators view, Admirals overall valuation of his car is no longer in 
dispute. But for completeness, Ive checked three of the motor trade valuation guides and 
Im satisfied that Admirals valuation of £71,380 is fair and reasonable, as its in line with the 
values given by those guides. 
Whats in dispute here is the 10% Admiral has deducted from that valuation, amounting to 
£7,138. Admiral has deducted this because Mr Ps car didnt have a valid MOT at the time of 
the theft. I acknowledge Admiral says a 10% deduction is industry standard and in line with 
what our service has said in other cases. But in the circumstances of this particular case, 
I think a deduction of £7,138 is disproportionate and unfair. Ill explain why. 
I accept that not having a valid MOT certificate reduced the value of Mr Ps car. But I dont 
think it reduced its value by the £7,138 Admiral has deducted. I say that because Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest Mr Ps car would need £7,138 of repairs in order to pass its MOT. 
The cars previous MOT didnt list any advisory problems (issues that are found during an 
MOT test but which arent deemed serious enough for the car to fail the MOT), so there was 
nothing in that to suggest Mr Ps car had issues that needed to be monitored or fixed in the 
future. And that MOT certificate expired five months before the car was stolen, so not a 
matter of years in which the condition of Mr Ps car might significantly deteriorate. And 
Mr Ps car was about four and a half years old at the time of the theft, so not particularly old. 
Therefore, I dont think it was fair for Admiral to deduct £7,138 from the value of Mr Ps car 
solely for not having a valid MOT certificate. Instead, I think the £100 suggested by our 
investigator is a fairer deduction in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Admiral should pay Mr P a total of £71,380 for his car in settlement of his 
claim. But it can deduct the policy excess from this, as well as £100 because Mr Ps car 
didnt have a valid MOT certificate. If this means that Admiral needs to make an additional 
payment to Mr P, it should add 8% simple interest to that additional payment from 21 July 
2020 (the date Admiral offered to pay Mr P £71,380 less a 10% deduction) to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr P a total of £71,380 in settlement of his 
claim. But it can deduct the policy excess from this, as well as £100 for not having a valid 
MOT certificate. If this means Admiral Insurance Company Limited needs to make an 
additional payment to Mr P, it should add 8% simple interest to that additional payment from 
21 July 2020 to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman