DRN-3038948
The complaint
Mr F complains, in summary, that S4 Financial Ltd:
-advised him to transfer two pension pots to a fraudulent pension liberation scheme 
and then,
-introduced him to an adviser at Aston Court Chambers International (ACC) who 
arranged the transfer to the pension liberation scheme.
Mr F is represented in this matter by a third party. His representative says that as a result of 
S4s actions and omissions. Mr F has suffered significant financial loss. The Pension 
Scheme has not only resulted in a direct loss of £48,409.50 but has also led to threats of 
legal proceedings to recover the sum drawn down by Mr F under the Pension Scheme 
(plus interest and costs). and enquiries from HMRC.
What happened
Mr F says he met an adviser from S4 in 2009 when he was looking for advice on two 
personal pension pots he held. At the time the combined value of the pots was around 
£190,000. 
Mr F says the S4 adviser told him there was a way to access a portion of his pension funds 
before reaching his normal retirement age, through a pension scheme offered by Aston 
Court Chambers (ACC).
Mr F says he assumes information about his pension pots was passed on to ACC. 
The information available shows that ACC provided a report for Mr F, dated November 2009, 
on what was referred to as an Advance Annuity Purchase scheme (AAP). The report did 
not make any reference to any involvement by S4.
Mr F says he then had a second meeting with the S4 adviser in early December 2009 where 
he received the report. Mr Fs representative says that at this meeting the S4 adviser 
explained the Pension Report and the Pension Scheme, [the S4 adviser] did not advise 
Mr F of any risks whatsoever and wholly endorsed the scheme proposed by ACC and the 
S4 adviser advised Mr F to proceed with ACC and transfer his Existing Pensions into the 
Pension Scheme, which would enable him to realise cash from his pension fund.
I understand that Mr F subsequently completed the necessary application forms, returned 
them directly to ACC and paid ACC an arrangement fee of £1,000. 
In June 2020 Mr Fs representative complained to S4 on his behalf. It said S4s adviser 
should not have referred Mr F to ACC and that S4s adviser had advised Mr F on 
investing in the Pension Scheme through ACC.
S4 did not uphold the complaint. It said its (former) adviser accepted that he had introduced 
Mr F to an adviser at Aston Court Chambers Wealth Management Limited. But it said it did 
not accept that S4 had provided Mr F with any advice, and it said Mr F had refused to 
provide any personal details to and/or engage with S4 Financial Limited. It noted that the 
adviser it introduced Mr F to was a regulated and authorised Financial Adviser. 
It also said there was nothing to show or suggest that Mr F had paid S4 a fee or that it had 
received any commission in connection with advice given or policies arranged for Mr F. 
It accepted that its adviser had forwarded a covering letter and engagement pack from ACC 
to Mr F on 8 December 2009 but it noted that the ACC information enclosed set out:
This is not formal advice and cannot be relied on as such. Advice is given after the 
appropriate party has engaged us (ACC SA) and client has paid the appropriate fee and is 
subject to a specific engagement contract between us (ACCA SA and Client).
Mr Fs representative referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said that having carefully considered this matter she didnt think S4 was 
partly, or wholly responsible for the advice Mr F received to transfer his pension.
She noted that there was some dispute about the number of meetings the S4 adviser held 
with Mr F and the extent of S4s involvement in the advice process. 
Having considered the evidence available she said she was of the view that Mr F met the S4 
adviser for the first time in early December 2009. In reaching this view she took into account 
the letter the S4 adviser sent to Mr F dated 8 December 2009 forwarding information from 
ACC about the Advanced Annuity Purchase scheme. The letter indicated that the adviser 
had met Mr F for the first time the previous week.
She noted that Mr Fs representative felt that as the covering letter was on S4 headed paper 
and enclosed information from ACC about the AAP this showed that the S4 adviser had 
been actively involved in the advice process and had not discouraged Mr F from transferring 
his pension pots to the scheme. 
She said that she wasnt satisfied that the covering letter from the S4 adviser was, in itself, 
sufficient for her to safely conclude that its adviser had done more than introduce Mr F. 
She noted all Mr Fs representative had said regarding Mr Fs recollection of conversations 
he had with the S4 adviser about the suitability of the transfer. But she said she hadnt been 
provided with any evidence that a fact find, or other consideration of Mr Fs circumstances 
was carried out by S4. Nor was there anything to show that the S4 adviser had given Mr F 
any written recommendation. She also noted that the letter clearly set out that for the 
transfer to proceed Mr F would need to liaise with and pay ACC directly.
She also took into account that the paperwork and report the S4 adviser forwarded to Mr F 
was not a recommendation. And there was a significant amount of documentation Mr F 
needed to complete, after any involvement with S4 had ended, before he could proceed with 
the AAP. She noted this included both the loan agreement and investment contract. She 
also noted that S4 hadnt received an introducer or adviser fee or any other fee or 
commission in connection with the transfer of Mr Fs pension pots to the AAP.
In view of this she said she was not satisfied that S4s adviser had advised Mr F on the AAP 
he subsequently went ahead with.
With regard to S4s adviser introducing Mr F to ACC, she noted that S4s adviser knew the 
ACC representative in his capacity as a regulated financial adviser, working for Aston Court Chambers Wealth Management Limited. In view of this she said she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for S4s adviser to have made the referral as S4 wasnt able to give the advice 
that Mr F required. And she said she felt it would have been reasonable for S4s adviser to 
assume that any advice the ACC adviser gave would meet the FCAs suitability 
requirements. 
Mr Fs representative did not accept our investigators view. It said, in summary that:
The FOS is clearly wrong to determine that [the S4 adviser] did not go beyond merely 
introducing Mr F to ACC. By definition, [the S4 advisers] letter of 8 December 2009 shows 
that he remained embedded in the advice and transfer process after the point at which his 
involvement would have ceased if he merely introduced Mr F to ACC, so the evidence runs 
contrary to the FOS determination.
But crucially, even if [the S4 adviser] did just introduce Mr F (and [the S4 adviser] clearly did 
much more than this), [the S4 adviser] were FSA/FCA regulated and so owed Mr F a duty of 
care to act in Mr Fs best interest. The FOS has ignored this crucial point in their 
determination, and effectively treated [the S4 adviser] as if they were an unregulated 
introducer to which the regulatory regime did not apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Fs complaint against S4 should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Did S4 advise Mr F?
In the complaint Mr Fs representative referred to this service it says the S4 adviser 
explained the Pension Report and the Pension Scheme, [the S4 adviser] did not advise 
Mr F of any risks whatsoever and wholly endorsed the scheme proposed by ACC.., and the 
S4 adviser advised Mr F to proceed with ACC and transfer his Existing Pensions into the 
Pension Scheme, which would enable him to realise cash from his pension fund.
I have very carefully considered the evidence available to see if there is anything that would 
support Mr Fs recollection that he was advised to go ahead with the AAP by the S4 adviser. 
Having done so I cannot safely find that he was advised by S4.
In reaching this view I have taken into account that S4 has no record of Mr F ever having 
been its client. It has no fact find information or signed terms of business for Mr F, nor has it 
been able to find anything to show that Mr F appointed it as his adviser. Likewise, it did not 
receive any fee or commission for providing advice to Mr F.
I have also considered that the report from ACC, dated 18 November 2009, and forwarded 
to Mr F by S4s adviser set out: 
This is not formal advice and cannot be relied on as such. Advice is given after the 
appropriate party has engaged us and has paid the appropriate fee and is subject to a 
specific engagement contract between us. 
(bold is my emphasis)
I have not seen anything that shows or suggests that the S4 adviser had any involvement 
with Mr F after he forwarded this report from ACC to him in early December 2009. As the 
report clearly set out that advice would only be given after Mr F had paid ACC the appropriate fee I cannot safely find that S4 did advise Mr F on entering into the AAP. Taking 
account of all the available evidence I am satisfied that Mr F was advised on transferring his 
pensions to the AAP by the adviser he was introduced to, not S4.
I am also mindful that in response to a query I asked our investigator to raise with Mr F 
relating to why he did not bring a complaint sooner about the AAP, Mr F said:
Fundamentally, at all times, I was led to believe, and assumed, that all monies were a 
drawing against my pension  I was to receive 70% of it and the remaining 30% would be 
set aside (less costs) to be drawn later. So, when the monthly salary payments stopped, I 
simply assumed I had received at that stage the maximum amount I was able to receive 
from the pension. I also fundamentally trusted Aston Court Chambers. I most certainly 
was not aware that anything was wrong or indeed even suspicious at this time that 
something might be wrong. 
(bold is my emphasis)
I think this is a further indication that Mr F felt the advice he received to enter into the AAP 
was given by ACC, not S4. 
Likewise, if Mr F felt he had been advised by S4 to enter into the AAP it is not clear to me 
why he did not raise concerns with S4 in 2017, when he was first contacted about repaying 
the loan he received in connection with the AAP. I note that at that time Mr F contacted the 
adviser he had dealt with at ACC.
I have also taken into account that the S4 advisers contract of employment set out that he 
was not permitted to carry out any FSA regulated activities other than on behalf of S4.
Is S4 responsible for the advice Mr F received?
It is not in dispute that the S4 adviser introduced Mr F to an adviser at ACC and forwarded 
information from ACC to Mr F in early December 2009.
Mr Fs representative says:
 even if [the S4 adviser] did just introduce Mr F [the S4 adviser] were FSA/FCA 
regulated and so owed Mr F a duty of care to act in Mr Fs best interest. The FOS has 
ignored this crucial point in their determination, and effectively treated [the S4 adviser] as if 
they were an unregulated introducer to which the regulatory regime did not apply.
I have carefully considered the points Mr Fs representative has made on this aspect of his 
complaint. 
S4 told this service that in early November 2009 its adviser met with a former colleague from 
a previous employment. It said that at the time the former colleague of its adviser was 
working for various companies in the UK film industry assisting them with their funding 
requirements typically under EIS or Secured loan arrangements.
It says the former colleague asked S4s adviser if it was possible for a client to invest their 
pension money into films which were a company asset, in the same way as directors of a 
business investing their SSAS into a company property and leasing it back. It says its 
adviser thought this was an in principle question and no particular client was discussed.
S4 says its adviser told his former colleague that this was not something that S4 could 
advise on as it did not have the legal capability to be able to answer the question, nor was 
it something that we had contemplated before, further that for us to get a legal opinion on 
such matters might be prohibitively expensive. However, S4s adviser says he told his former colleague that he knew of another IFA, with links to a legal practice, who might be in 
a position to provide advice in this area. It was this adviser that Mr F was subsequently 
introduced to. 
So S4s position is that its adviser made an introduction to another IFA, who he understood 
to have knowledge and expertise in the area Mr F was interested in. 
I have reviewed the FCA Register and I am satisfied that the adviser Mr F was introduced to 
was authorised to give financial advice at the time the introduction was made.
As our investigator explained I must take into account that it appears Mr F received advice 
from an authorised person (the IFA he was referred to) on the transaction he subsequently 
entered into. As the Financial Services and Markets Act (Regulated Activities) Order sets 
out, if an introduction is made to an IFA and advice is given by that IFA, then the introducer 
(whether or not they are authorised) is excluded from the regulated activity. As this is the 
case, I cannot agree with Mr Fs representatives position that S4 is responsible for the 
advice Mr F received from the IFA its adviser introduced him to.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman