DRN-4097233
Complaint
Mr M has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr M with an initial loan for £5,000.00 in December 2020. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £265. This loan was settled in 
full with some of the proceeds from loan 2.  
Mr M applied for loan 2 in December 2021. This loan was for £4,733.00 (£4,032.68 of which 
went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1) and was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just over £310. This loan was settled in full with some of the proceeds 
from loan 3.  
Mr M applied for loan 3 in July 2022. This loan was for £4,733.00 (£3,275.45 of which went 
towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 2) and was due to be repaid in 30 monthly 
instalments of just over £250. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Likely Loans had told us. She thought that 
Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly when providing loans 1 
and 2 but thought that it should have realised that it shouldnt have provided loan 3. So she 
partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. Likely Loans accepted our adjudicators view but Mr M 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
As the parties are in agreement with the outcome on loan 3, this decision is only looking at 
whether Likely Loans acted fairly and reasonably when providing loans 1 and 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Likely Loans has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms applications for loans 1 and 2 after he provided details 
of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M 
could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has 
said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Likely Loans have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that Likely Loans has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Likely 
Loans searches appear to show that Mr M had some existing credit commitments at the time 
he applied for these loans. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms outstanding 
debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income. 
Ive kept in mind that Mr Ms external debt total between loan 1 and loan 2 did increase. But 
Mr Ms debts appeared to be reasonably managed and there was no significant indications 
of difficulty such as defaults, county court judgements or payday lending. And there isnt 
anything else obvious in either of these applications which lead me to think that further 
checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr M appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans was providing loans for relatively small sums. And its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I 
dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of 
checks Mr M is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
provide loans 1 and 2 - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it 
found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. And as Likely Loans has 
already agreed to put things right for loan 3, it follows that Im satisfied that it doesnt need to 
do anything further. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans has treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. And I leave it 
up to him to decide whether he now wishes to accept Likely Loans offer in relation to loan 3.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Oakbrook Finance Limited has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman