DRN-4038575
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice provided by Bloomfield Financial Limited (Bloomfield) to 
transfer his defined benefit occupational pension (DB) scheme to a self invested personal 
pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Bloomfield had advised Mr B in early 2018 in connection with the transfer of preserved 
benefits in another DB scheme to a SIPP. Bloomfield had advised Mr B to transfer and hed 
accepted that advice. Mr B contacted Bloomfield in March 2018 about taking tax free cash 
from the DB scheme which is the subject of this complaint. Mr B had obtained a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £33,439.56 from the DB scheme, guaranteed until 19 
June 2018. 
At the time Mr B was 55, married and intended to retire at age 60. He was employed, 
earning £32,000 gross pa. He had savings of around £19,000 but no other investments. His 
home was worth £115,000, subject to an outstanding (repayment) mortgage of £36,000 with 
a remaining term of 11 years. He was a member of his current employers Group Personal 
Pension (GPP). Bloomfield confirmed with Mr B that his attitude to risk (ATR) remained 
balanced. 
Bloomfield issued a suitability report on 16 June 2018. Amongst other things it recorded that 
Mr Bs GPP was valued at around £203,000. Mr B had found he had an additional DB 
scheme from which he wanted to access as much tax free cash as possible to complete 
some home improvements to help with the sale of his property, which was a key part of his 
retirement plan. He wanted to transfer to a drawdown scheme so he could take more tax 
free cash and leave the remainder invested. Access to capital was far more important than 
income and to his retirement plan  to sell his home and access his GPP flexibly to provide 
enough to buy a flat and small business abroad. The sale proceeds and Mr Bs GPP was 
sufficient to fund that comfortably and the benefits from the DB scheme were a bonus which 
he could afford to lose although he wouldnt want to. 
The critical yield needed to match the DB scheme benefits at the schemes normal 
retirement age (65) was 8.46% if all benefits were taken as income and 7.79% if a lump sum 
and a reduced pension was paid. Bloomfield said that wasnt an achievable return and Mr 
Bs eventual pension may be reduced. Bloomfield added that immediately accessing the 
fund was Mr Bs actual aim and recommended that he transfer the value of his accrued 
benefits in the DB scheme. The report noted that the DB scheme offered tax free cash of 
£4,988 and an income of £748 pa increasing by the lower of 5% or RPI (Retail Price Index). 
The SIPP would provide tax free cash of £8,359 with the balance of £24,579.67 remaining 
invested. Mr B accepted the recommendation. The transfer took place on 13 July 2018.
In August 2022 Mr B, through his representative, complained to Bloomfield that the advice 
had been unsuitable. The benefits Mr B had given up in the DB scheme were unlikely to be 
matched post transfer. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says an 
adviser must start by assuming that a transfer by a DB scheme member isnt in the 
members best interests. Mr B wanted an explanation as to why he was in the very small 
minority of people for whom a transfer was suitable. 
Bloomfield didnt uphold the complaint. It said, having reviewed the file, the recommendation 
was suitable and appropriate, given Mr Bs specific and personal objectives and his 
circumstances at the time. The recommendation hadnt been made on the basis of the 
receiving scheme matching the benefits offered by the DB scheme. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it. He didnt think the 
advice had been suitable. 
In summary the investigator said: 
The benefits Mr B had accrued in the DB scheme offered a guaranteed income for 
life. The level of income may have appeared low to Mr B but his retirement plans and 
his associated income needs were unclear. The suitability report noted Mr B had said 
he didnt need any further income but thered been no attempt to quantify his needs 
and how his other assets may have met them. 
Mr B had said he required additional capital to complete home improvements. But no 
quantifiable capital expenditure had been discussed. The suitability report said Mr B 
wanted to maximise the tax free cash available to him. But it wasnt noted if the tax 
free cash from the DB scheme may have been sufficient. Its difficult to justify giving 
up valuable guarantees when it wasnt known, even broadly, how much capital was 
required. Although it was noted throughout the report that Mr B didnt want to go into 
debt to complete the work, whether that would be necessary wasnt assessed. 
Even if Mr B did require additional capital, the tax free cash available from the DB 
scheme was £4,190, compared to £8,440 following the transfer. But the DB scheme 
wouldve paid guaranteed income of £748 pa so the difference wouldve been made 
up in less than six years. Mr B was relatively young and healthy so its reasonable to 
assume hed have lived long enough to make up the shortfall. 
Mr B had almost £20,000 in cash at the time which he couldve accessed and used 
the income to make it up. Mr B didnt want to trigger the Money Purchase Annual 
Allowance (MPAA). Accessing the DB scheme benefits wouldnt have done that but 
the suitability report doesnt discuss that. There was insufficient analysis of Mr Bs 
capital requirements and alternative ways to meet his needs werent fully explored. 
Mr B was carrying out home improvements and his broad plan was to sell the 
property and retire abroad and possibly run a business. It was difficult to ascertain 
what income, if any, Mr B would require in retirement. Bloomfield seems to have 
relied on what Mr B said about not needing any more income. Mr Bs state pension 
hadnt been detailed, nor had any cashflow modelling been completed to ascertain 
Mr Bs income requirements or the viability of his plans as a whole. 
The critical yield  the growth rate required to replicate the benefits in the DB scheme 
being given up  was 8.46% if Mr B didnt take any tax free cash and 7.79% if he did. 
Those rates were unlikely to be achieved. 
Bloomfield didnt agree with the investigators view. Ive summarised Bloomfields main 
observations: 
The suitability report said that transfers from DB schemes werent generally 
considered to be in members best interests. 
The improvement works to be carried out were detailed in the fact find and suitability 
report  renewal of the central heating system, replacing the kitchen and renewal of 
all boundary fencing. Mr B was in the process of negotiating prices but had come to Bloomfield as hed concluded his savings and the tax free cash from the DB scheme 
wouldnt be sufficient. 
The difference in the tax free cash wouldnt have been made up in less than six 
years. The income from the DB scheme would be taxable and it wouldve taken over 
seven years to make up the disparity. Mr B wanted to avoid or minimise the need to 
take on any debt. If hed borrowed from a mainstream lender, the repayment period 
wouldnt have been longer than five years. Even if the payments were interest free, 
theyd be higher than the additional post tax income received from the DB scheme. 
The taxable pension income wouldnt have been sufficient to service that debt, let 
alone also build his emergency fund back up.
There was no reason to point out to Mr B that accessing the DB scheme wouldnt 
trigger the MPAA as it had already been established doing that wouldnt meet Mr Bs 
financial aims. The reference to the MPAA was to ensure Mr B understood, if he 
withdrew more funds from the SIPP (over and above his tax free cash), that might 
affect his ability to contribute to his GPP. Bloomfield was unlikely to be involved at 
that point. Mr B was confident in his own knowledge and explicitly required no 
ongoing support. Had the fund not gone just over the £30,000 advice threshold, he 
wouldnt have felt the need to engage with Bloomfield at all. 
It wasnt a requirement at the time to carry out cash flow modelling, although it was a 
useful tool. But it required a series of assumptions. If those are likely to be inaccurate 
then that tends to convey unwarranted confidence or pessimism, depending on which 
way the assumptions sway. Mr B was adamant he wanted to buy a hospitality 
business abroad. When quizzed about which type, his answers were always around 
finding a business where the numbers work and needing as much capital as 
possible to increase the options. Any input to a cash flow modelling tool would 
require assumptions that could never be considered reasonable and so the output 
was unlikely to have been helpful. 
As the investigator had said, reference to published discount rates wasnt a 
requirement and wasnt used widely in the industry where the clients intention was 
flexible access. But the rates Bloomfield used did straddle the discount rate quite 
well. Bloomfield had never implied that the growth needed to replicate the DB 
scheme benefits would be achieved  the suitability report specifically pointed out it 
wasnt an achievable return and Mr Bs eventual pension may be reduced. At no 
point did Bloomfield tell Mr B hed be better off. But transferring was the only way to 
meet his stated objectives. 
The investigator considered Bloomfields comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. He said the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view the investigator reached and the reasons he gave as 
to why he considered the complaint should be upheld. 
In reaching my conclusions Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, including the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. The central issue is whether Bloomfields recommendation that Mr B transfer the value of his 
deferred benefits in the DB scheme was suitable for him. As well as the suitability 
requirements in COBS 9, there are specific provisions in COBS 19.1 about advising on DB 
pension transfers. COBS 19.1.6G (2) says, when making a personal recommendation for a 
retail client who is a member of a DB scheme who is considering whether to transfer, a firm 
should start by assuming that the transfer will not be suitable. COBS 19.1.6G (3) says a firm 
should only consider a transfer if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that 
the transfer is in the clients best interests. 
COBS 19.1.6G (4) sets out a list of factors that should be taken into account to demonstrate 
suitability. The first is the clients intentions for accessing pension benefits. Here Bloomfields 
central argument is that Mr B wanted to take tax free cash to fund home improvements and 
the transfer generated higher immediate tax free cash - £8,359 as opposed to £4,988 
available from the DB scheme. 
Mr B had just turned 55 when he consulted Bloomfield about transferring. He didnt intend to 
retire until he reached 60, some five years away. Although Mr B had some plans for his 
retirement, I dont think they were particularly advanced. He hadnt identified exactly where 
he and his wife would be living or the business theyd have. Some areas and types of 
business were being contemplated and Mr B had some idea of the cost but what income he 
expected the business to generate wasnt clear. 
In any event, those plans couldve changed by the time Mr B reached age 60 and assuming 
he still wanted to give up his work in the UK then. Running a business abroad might depend 
on Mr Bs and his wifes health remaining good. While there might have been nothing to 
indicate otherwise, I dont think assuming that would be the case was prudent. Any health 
issues couldve impacted on their wish to live abroad. And there couldve been post Brexit 
complications of living and working abroad. Whereas the decision to transfer and give up the 
guaranteed benefits the DB scheme offered would be irreversible. 
Essentially I think the decision to transfer was premature and not something that Mr B 
needed to do at that time. If, when he was closer to retirement, his plans had crystallised, 
transferring couldve been considered then. Any decision then wouldve been based on the 
current value of Mr Bs property and up to date costings for the property and business he 
could purchase abroad as well as what income hed likely need. 
I note Bloomfields comments about it not being right to dismiss a clients plans just because 
all the answers arent yet known but enabling the client to move in the intended direction. But 
sometimes there may be too many unknowns and the better course is to advise against 
making any irreversible decisions until nearer the time and once any plans have been more 
fully formulated. Bloomfield had a duty to provide suitable advice, rather than simply agree 
with Mr B as to how he thought his objectives might be met. 
Mr B wanted the tax free cash to fund some home improvements. He and his wife would get 
the use and benefit of any work done while they continued to live in the property and before 
they came to sell it. But theres nothing to suggest the works were needed urgently. It seems 
the driver was to improve the value and/or saleability of the property when Mr B retired and 
came to sell the property  the suitability report says Mr B had confirmed it was important 
that the works were done as selling the property was a key part of his retirement plan to 
move abroad. But, as Ive said, Mr B wouldnt be selling for some years. 
Nor is there any reference in the suitability report to any discussion as to whether, if Mr B 
wanted to go ahead with the improvements immediately, he couldve funded them differently. 
Its unclear from the suitability report exactly how much the proposed works might cost. 
Bloomfield has said that Mr B had made enquiries and the costs would extinguish his savings and the tax free cash he could access from the DB scheme. But the costings arent 
set out in the suitability letter and dont form part of the analysis and rationale for 
transferring. 
Bloomfield says that none of the solutions suggested by the investigator wouldve worked. 
Mr B didnt want to go into debt to raise the money and, in any event, the after tax income 
from the DB scheme wouldnt have been enough to pay off the shortfall borrowing by the 
time Mr B got to 60. Mr Bs initial inclination may have been that he didnt want to borrow. 
But the suitability letter records that he had a significant amount (£500) of disposable income 
each month (and not taking into account his wifes income which was also disposable). So it 
seems hed have been in a position to have taken on some borrowing, some of which might 
have been on an interest only basis. Id expect to see that, and any other possible solutions, 
explored even if then ruled out. 
I note what Bloomfield has said about cash flow modelling  that it wasnt appropriate as 
there were too many variables to produce a meaningful output. I think that underlines what 
Im saying  given the uncertainties and the fact that Mr B was still some years off when he 
intended to retire  he shouldve been steered away from making an irrevocable decision 
until his plans were more fully developed and the costings better known. 
As to the value of the benefits Mr B was giving up, Ive referred above to the critical yield  
thats how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year to provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme wouldve paid. The suitability report acknowledged the required 
return wasnt likely achievable and it was possible Mr Bs eventual pension may be reduced. 
So Mr B would likely receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement. On that basis, a transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best interests  in financial 
terms hed likely be worse off as a result of transferring. 
Financial viability isnt the only consideration. In some cases there will be other factors which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite likely providing overall lower retirement benefits. Ive 
already considered the rationale on which Bloomfields advice was based  the availability of 
higher tax free cash. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that meant the advice to 
transfer was suitable. 
COBS 19.1.6G says its for the firm to demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer is in the retail clients best interests, starting from the assumption that transferring 
wont be suitable. I dont think Bloomfield has done that. Instead, from what Ive seen, 
Bloomfield seems to have gone along with Mr Bs view that the benefits that the DB scheme 
would provide, particularly in terms of income, were insignificant and such that he could 
afford to give them up in return for a higher tax free cash amount. Mr B had a few months 
earlier, on advice from Bloomfield, transferred the (much higher) accrued value of the 
benefits hed accrued in another DB scheme to a SIPP. Introducing further funds to the SIPP 
by transferring the DB pension that is the subject of this complaint seems, to some extent at 
least, to have followed on from the previous advice. 
Ive also considered if Mr B wouldve transferred anyway, even if Bloomfield had advised him 
against. That seems to be the inference from Bloomfields comments in response to the 
investigators view. Mr B may have thought he knew what he wanted to do. Its possible that 
he only engaged with Bloomfield because he was required to do so as the value of his DB 
scheme benefits exceeded £30,000. But, howsoever Bloomfield came to be instructed, it 
was up to Bloomfield to give suitable advice. 
Mr B was an ordinary retail client with no real investment experience. I note the comments in 
the suitability report about the reading and online research Mr B had done about 
investments. But transferring a DB scheme involves specialist financial advice. I think Mr B wouldve been dependent on Bloomfields advice and for which he was paying. I dont think, 
if Bloomfield had said he shouldnt transfer and explained why transferring wasnt in his best 
interests, Mr B wouldve gone ahead anyway. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Bloomfield Financial Limited to put Mr B, as far 
as possible, into the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B 
wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme. 
The redress Ive set out follows what the investigator suggested but taking into account that, 
since the investigator issued his view, the new rules and guidance set out in Policy 
Statement PS22/13 published on 28 November 2022 have come into force (with effect from 
1 April 2023) and are set out in DISP Appendix 4. I note, as recorded in the investigators 
view, Mr Bs representative had told us that Mr B wanted redress to be calculated on the 
basis of the new rules in any event. 
Bloomfield Financial Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in Policy 
Statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4. 
For clarity, Mr B hasnt yet retired, and he has no set plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in PS22/13 and DISP App 4, 
Bloomfield Financial Limited should: 
Calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment. 
Explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that: redress will be calculated 
on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the cautious investment 
return assumption used in the calculation); and a straightforward way to invest the 
redress prudently is to use it to augment the current defined contribution pension. 
Offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be used to augment 
the pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum. 
If Mr B accepts Bloomfield Financial Limiteds offer to calculate how much of the 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B 
for the calculation even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented. 
Take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position. 
Redress paid directly to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of 
benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, 
Bloomfield Financial Limited may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement is presumed to be 20%. However, if Mr B wouldve 
been able to take 25% tax free cash from the benefits the cash payment represents, then this notional reduction may only be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an 
overall notional deduction of 15%. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Bloomfield Financial Limited must redress Mr B as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman