DRN-2541566
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
FCE Bank Plc (FCE). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint FCE, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
complaints about the dealerships service
The relevant legislation says the dealership are acting as agents of FCE when negotiating 
the finance agreement. But FCE arent responsible for the dealerships service standard. If 
Mr C wants to complain about that hell need to direct his complaint to the dealership.
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. This was a 
new car so I would not expect it to have anything wrong with it.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs on a car within the first six months it is to 
be assumed it was present when the car was supplied, unless the business can show 
otherwise.
Mr C didnt take receipt of his new car until 31 July 2017. In January 2018, within six months, 
he reported a problem with his Ad Blue Service warning light. The dealership diagnosed an 
electrical problem and said a new wiring loom and fuse box would need to be fitted. The 
wiring loom needed to be fitted by a third party and Mr C has provided evidence that when 
he realised this he asked to reject the car.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair any fault that is present 
or developing when the car is supplied. Im persuaded the business had that opportunity 
when they repaired the headlights on Mr Cs car in November 2018. Im also persuaded that 
the wiring loom problem was developing at the point of supply so, as the business had 
already exhausted their one opportunity to repair the car, Mr C could have rejected it in 
March 2018 when that fault was reported. But as he clearly accepted a repair to the wiring 
loom I dont think the business were wrong not to reject the car at that point.
But the relevant legislation says that any repair needs to be done in a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr C was waiting for a repair from early March 2018 until early July 2018 and I dont think 
that is a reasonable timeframe. Im persuaded that the business should have allowed Mr C 
to reject the car when I think the evidence suggested he asked to in July 2018. Mr C made 
this request to the dealership when it became apparent a full repair hadnt been completed 
and the wiring loom fix was still outstanding. Im not persuaded he would have agreed to 
send the car to have the wiring loom repaired if the dealership had explained his rights to 
rejection. It seems he only conceded because he thought he had no other option.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I still think FCE should allow Mr C to reject the car. Hes 
explained that the LED lights still dont work on his conversion kit. That conversion kit was 
financed through his agreement with FCE and I think they are responsible for its quality. 
Whilst the LED lights appear to have worked initially they failed as a result of a repair that 
the dealership were completing to the wiring loom. And, as the wiring loom is a fault that Im 
persuaded was developing at the point of supply, it would seem reasonable to consider that 
a failed repair. In those circumstances FCE should also allow the car to be rejected. 
Putting things right
FCE should take the car back and end the finance agreement with Mr C. They should refund 
any deposit Mr C has paid and theyll need to add 8% interest to that refund as Mr C has 
been deprived of that money whilst funding an unsatisfactory vehicle.
Mr C was without his car for four and a half months whilst the wiring loom/fuse box issue 
was being resolved. Its not fair for him to be paying for a car he wasnt able to drive so FCE 
should refund the finance instalments he paid during that period (£2040.48) and they should 
add 8% interest to that refund as Mr C has been deprived of the money.
I think Mr C has never had full use of the car he was financing. Hes been plagued by 
problems which I think can almost all be fairly related to issues on supply or issues with 
failed repairs. In those circumstances the investigator suggested FCE should also refund 
10% of the finance instalments hes paid. I think thats a little excessive given that Mr C 
could still drive the car. But I note the investigator did not ask the business to pay any 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Mr C has clearly experienced. Overall, 
taking the loss of use and distress and inconvenience compensation into account, I think a 
refund of 10% of instalments would adequately compensate Mr C for both issues. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
end the agreement and allow Mr C to reject the car;
collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund £2040.48 for the time the car was out of Mr Cs possession and being repaired 
and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund 10% of the remaining finance instalments in respect of the loss of use Mr C 
has experienced from the car and the distress and inconvenience hes suffered;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman