DRN-4051601
The complaint
Mrs B complains that in April 2020 a number of Child Trust Funds (referred to as CTFs or 
investments) were transferred from HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (referred to 
as HBOS or the business) to a new business, without her consent. Shes unhappy that 
the values have dropped since and blames this on the move. 
Mrs B also says that she was guaranteed to receive £2,000 the investments upon maturity, 
but this hasnt happened, and she is unhappy that her sons gender was recorded 
incorrectly. She doesnt think the £250 compensation recently paid  for the time taken to 
respond to the complaint raised in November 2021  is reasonable. To put things right, shed 
like the business to pay £2,000 for each of the investments as promised. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In terms of the transfer, commercially this is something that HBOS was entitled to do. 
This isnt illegal and isnt prohibited by the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority the FCA.
In the circumstances it wasnt necessary for HBOS to obtain Mrs Bs consent, so it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to complete the transfer without it. However, its required to 
notify its customers of the change and provide options for those customers that arent 
interested in moving to the new business and would prefer to take their investments 
elsewhere.
In this instance the third-party administrator wrote to customers between February 
and March 2020. A sample letter provided by the business shows the following 
options:
oTo take no action and allow the transfer to proceed  on 10 April 2020  
unless she told HBOS otherwise, by 3 April 2020. 
oTo switch to another provider of her choice. 
It was made clear that the charge would remain at 1%, so this wasnt affected by the 
movement to the new business. 
Mrs B said that HBOS wrote to her at her old address where she had moved out of in 
September 2019, so she didnt get the letter(s)  she feels like HBOS has treated her 
unfairly. But Mrs B didnt update the business, despite being requested to do so by 
the terms and conditions.  In the circumstances, the business hasnt done anything 
wrong. In other words, HBOS acted within its terms and conditions by writing to her 
at the address it has on file.  
She cant say that the investments were affected by the transfer. The fund  namely 
FTSE 100 Tracker Fund  that the CTFs were invested in (with HBOS) remained 
unchanged with the new provider. This fund tracks the performance of the top 100 
companies in the UK. 
If the companies do well, the share prices go up and if they dont the share price falls 
and investors will lose money. The performance of the investments at the time was 
impacted by the significantly poor market conditions caused by Covid-19. This might 
explain why the investments performed so badly in early 2020. HBOS has no control 
over the financial markets, anymore than the new business. The market has since 
recovered somewhat. 
There was never an option for Mrs B to stay with HBOS. However, Mrs B had the 
option to transfer the CTFs elsewhere, if she didnt want to transfer to the new 
provider. But Mrs B hasnt taken any steps to transfer to a new provider since the 
migration, its therefore unlikely she wouldve done anything different even if shed 
received the letter(s). 
Despite what Mrs B says, shes seen no evidence  either in the terms and 
conditions or the key features  that Mrs B was guaranteed £2,000 at maturity. 
oUnder the heading What might the child get back?, the key features 
explained:
The child will get back the value of the CTF when they decide to cash 
it in on or after their 18 birthday. This amount is not guaranteed and 
will depend on 
-the amount invested 
-the length of time is it invested 
-the investment performance of the CTF
-our charges
oThe key features also explained:
The value of the investments in a stakeholder CTF can go up and 
down. This means the value of a stakeholder CTF can fall as well as 
rise and the child may get back less than invested."
oShe cant say that HBOS provided misleading information about how the 
plans might work, and what the investors might get back. 
Mrs Bs sons details were transferred across  with his gender already noted as 
female  therefore this isnt something that she can blame HBOS for. 
HBOS not being able to explain what exactly happened doesnt mean that its to 
blame. Theres no evidence that it made a mistake or filled out his details incorrectly. 
Even if HBOS was at fault here, which it isnt, the £250 compensation is broadly fair 
and reasonable. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Shes 
not holding much hope that things will be decided any different. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs B says Im unable to safely 
say that the business did anything wrong. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs B, and HBOS, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont uphold this complaint for the following 
key reasons:
A business is, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
entitled to decide whether or not it transfers investments to another business. As a 
dispute resolution service, its not for us to tell HBOS, how it should run its 
commercial affairs therefore its not something I can comment upon further.
In other words, I cant say the business has done anything wrong by transferring the 
investments, including Mrs Bs childrens to a new provider, because it was entitled to 
do so. 
Because this was a collective move, and the business notified its customers in good 
time  and provided alternative options in case they didnt want to move to the new 
business  Im satisfied that HBOS wasnt required to obtain Mrs Bs consent, so 
hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so  and, if she was unhappy about the 
move, she had other options.
The above notwithstanding, I note that Mrs B (to date) hasnt taken steps to move 
away from the new provider. This suggests that she was unlikely to do anything 
different at the time  even if shed received the relevant notification. 
Despite what Mrs B says about not receiving the relevant letter(s), investors are 
obliged to update a business when there is a change of address or contact details. It 
doesnt appear that Mrs B has done this on behalf of her children, in line with HBOSs 
terms and conditions of business. Therefore, its likely that she didnt receive the 
relevant documentation. But in the circumstances I cant blame the business for 
writing to the address it had (for her/her children) on file. Without Mrs B notifying the 
business of the latest contact details, theres no way that the business wouldve 
reasonably known that she and her children had moved.  
Despite what Mrs B says about the value of the investments, this isnt something I 
can blame the business for. In other words, the investments were dependent on the 
FTSE 100 Tracker Fund  so the value could go up as well as down  this isnt 
something that the business could predict or control and therefore isnt something 
thats its responsible for. I also cant discount the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on 
the investment, thats more likely (than not) to have impacted the growth.  
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mrs B was told or led to believe by HBOS that 
the children would receive a minimum of £2,000 from their investments at maturity. 
Theres no evidence that this was the case and none of the key policy documents 
mentioned it either. Given the way that this investment works, this was unlikely to be 
the case in any event. If it was a third-party that gave Mrs B this guarantee, perhaps 
she can take up this issue with them. 
Whilst I appreciate what the investigator says about redress, and objectively its 
probably not unreasonable for the delay in responding to Mrs B. But Im also mindful 
that in the circumstances Mrs B  as representative  isnt entitled to any redress 
herself (for distress and inconvenience) and therefore I cant comment on this any 
further. 
Based on the explanation by the business, Im satisfied that the business dealt with 
the information it was provided in terms of Mrs Bs son. In other words, information that was transferred to it. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant say 
that HBOS did anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mrs B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not going ask the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman