DRN-3725199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about HDI Global Specialty SE. They werent happy that it 
delayed dealing with their claim under their landlord residential insurance policy following an 
escape of water at their rental property. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their landlord residential insurance policy after an escape 
of water. But the claim was delayed, partly because HDI believed, incorrectly, that they had 
a Crown Court Judgement (CCJ) against their name.
Mr and Mrs S complained to HDI about the way it handled things and how this affected 
them. HDI accepted it should have dealt with the allegation that there may have been a CCJ 
better. And so it offered them £150 by way of compensation. But as Mr and Mrs S still 
werent happy they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. She thought HDI 
made a serious mistake when it assumed they had a CCJ when they didnt and thought it 
should pay £800 compensation. 
HDI went on to offer £650 in compensation but Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They thought they 
should be paid thousands in compensation, so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it is accepted by both sides that Mr S didnt have a CCJ and that HDI didnt investigate 
the allegation very well I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this. Ill simply focus on 
the effect all this had on Mr and Mrs S and the level of compensation that should be 
awarded following HDIs final response letter in July 2022. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S were so frustrated and disappointed with how HDI 
looked into an allegation that Mr S had a CCJ against his name and it must have caused a 
lot of stress at a particularly difficult time for them. I know they felt they should be paid 
thousands more in compensation including covering reputational harm. But as HDI have 
explained the CCJ was only discussed around this insurance application, policy and claim so 
I dont think HDI is responsible for any wider reputational harm.
However, it must have been extremely stressful at a particularly difficult time, given Mr S 
severe health problems, for Mr and Mrs S to have had to endure the poorly managed 
allegation of having a CCJ against their name when this wasnt true. Mr and Mrs S were 
forced to investigate the possibility of having a CCJ against their name given that HDI said 
Mr S had one when he didnt. HDI, incorrectly, believed that Mr S may have had a CCJ. And 
yet it quickly moved to assuming that he did have a CCJ as opposed to getting to the bottom 
of the allegation which made matters significantly worse for Mr and Mrs S.
HDI seems to accept this now, following discussions with this Service, and has increased its 
offer of compensation from £150 to £650. But I agree with our investigator and think £800 
feels fairer in the particular circumstances of this case. I say this as it must have been very 
worrying for Mr and Mrs S to have this hanging over them given the potential severe 
consequences of a CCJ to them. And to have had to research whether they had a historical 
CCJ themselves (when they didnt) by phone and email over many months, look for 
alternative insurance with this hanging over them, and have had their claim delayed while 
this was ongoing must have been very worrying and stressful at an already difficult time.
Finally, I must highlight that this decision has focussed on the impact the CCJ has had and 
HDIs response in its FRL in July 2022. If there are any further complaints in relation to the 
settling of the claim or other issues then they will have to be advanced with HDI and this 
Service separately. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global 
Specialty SE to pay £800 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman