DRN-4145861
The complaint
Mrs S on behalf of R, her business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
closed her business bank account causing tremendous disruption to the operation of her 
business. Mrs S is also unhappy at the service received by Barclays regarding this and 
wants Barclays to compensate for the loss of Rs business and stress caused by the closure. 
What happened
R, Mrs Ss business held an account with Barclays. On a number of occasions throughout 
2022 Barclays sent Mrs S communications asking she update her business details with the 
completion of an enclosed form. The communications explained that Mrs S would be unable 
to open any new products or services until this was completed and if it wasnt completed it 
could result in Rs business account being closed.
Barclays records show a form was sent initially in April 2022 and then follow up requests 
sent in June, July and August. Mrs S failed to complete and return the form and on 12 
January 2023 Barclays sent an email and SMS explaining that it would be closing Rs 
account if the details werent updated by 18 January.
Mrs S called Barclays in response to this. Mrs S explained that she had tried to update the 
details, but she had been very busy. Mrs S didnt understand why Barclays needed any 
information as nothing had changed with her business. The advisor explained that it needs 
to check the information it holds about its customers accounts is up to date and to ensure it 
is holding the correct information about the business. 
The advisor explained to Mrs S that they can send the form for completion by email. Mrs S 
said that she has a new phone and doesnt have access to her email address as she has 
forgotten her password and that she doesnt have another email address she can use. The 
advisor says Mrs S can go into a branch of Barclays to complete the form and can make an 
appointment for her. Mrs S says she is too busy. She says she works Monday to Friday until 
8pm and Saturdays until 5pm and that the only time she is free is Sunday.  
It is agreed that Mrs S will try and regain access to her business email account and that 
Barclays will send the form by email. The advisor confirms the email address and provides 
Mrs S with a passphrase she needs to use to access and complete the form and provides 
instructions on the process and explains that the passcode is only valid for 48 hours. Mrs S 
is very unhappy with this as she doesnt have time to do this. The advisor offers to call her at 
4.45pm on Saturday to follow up on completing the form but Mrs S insists he call her after 
5pm (outside Barclays business hours) as she is working.
Mrs S failed to complete and return the form and Barclays proceeded to close the account 
on 23 January. The balance of the account showed as £2,846.75. 
Mrs S contacts Barclays about this the following day very upset that she can no longer 
access her account and wants to know where her money is and what will happen to the 
money and says her clients pay into Rs account and how she is to run her business. The 
advisor explains that the money will bounce back and that she can open a new account, but 
they are unable to provide a timescale. The advisor confirms the proceeds would be issued 
by cheque and Mrs S requests that the money is paid by transfer the following day.
Mrs S continued to call Barclays over the next week extremely upset about the situation and 
requesting updates as to where her money is. In response Barclays escalated the matter 
and cancelled the cheque it had issued for the proceeds and transferred the funds of Rs 
account to Mrs Ss personal account on 31 January.
Mrs S complained to Barclays about the problems shes faced with the closure of Rs 
account.
Barclays says Rs account was closed due to it not receiving a response to the KYC (know 
your customer) forms which were sent in April, June, July and August 2022. It says this 
information is required as part of its legal obligations and regulatory requirements that need 
to be meet. Barclays said it would re-open Rs account but there were some important steps 
which Mrs S must follow to get the account re-opened. Barclays compensated Mrs S £75 
(paid into her personal account on 11 February) for the time she had spent on hold while 
trying to sort out the matter. 
Mrs S was dissatisfied with this and brought the complaint to this service.
Barclays has confirmed that Rs account was reopened on 2 March and that the KYC case is 
still under review.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mrs Ss concerns and thought that that Barclays were 
under no obligation to continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to. They 
thought Barclays had sent numerous communications to Mrs S requesting she provide it with 
information about business R and that it had explained Rs account would be closed if it 
didnt receive this information. They thought when Barclays didnt receive the information 
requested it didnt do anything wrong in closing the account as it needed this information to 
comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
They thought that the issuing of the proceeds of account were done within a reasonable 
period of time  within 5 working days  but thought the service Mrs S received from 
Barclays during this period could have been better and that the £75 compensation for this 
Barclays paid for this was fair and reasonable.
Mrs S disagreed. Mrs S wants to be financially compensated for the loss of business and 
overwhelming stress caused by the closure of Rs account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help by me explaining my role is to look at the problems Mrs S has experienced with 
her business bank account and see if it has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if 
possible - to put the business back in the position it wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Barclays terms and conditions say amongst other things that it can close an account if it 
believes the customer has seriously or persistently broken any terms of its agreement with 
them or has reasonable grounds for thinking they have:  
put us in a position or give us an instruction where we might break alaw, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us if we maintain your
account, or we reasonably believe keeping your account open exposes us
or another Barclays company to action or censure from any government,
regulator, or law-enforcement agency or may damage our reputation.
I think this encompasses the failure of the provision of information about the customers 
details when requested  as in this case.
I appreciate the inconvenience this request might have been to Mrs S. But as Im sure Mrs S 
understands  having a business herself  that running a business comes with certain 
responsibilities and in Barclays case it needs to ensure the information it has on its 
customers is kept up to date in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. So I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong or treated Mrs S unfairly in requesting this 
information.
And again, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong or treated Mrs S unfairly when it took 
the decision to close her business account. I say this because I can see Mrs S was given 
plenty of time to respond to Barclays request for information  with the initial request sent out 
in April 2022 and follow up requests in June, July and August.
Yet Mrs S only responded when she received the text alert that the closure of her account 
was imminent some nine months later. I appreciate Mrs S says she had been too busy and 
was having trouble accessing her business email account due to her forgetting her 
password. But this situation is not due to any error on Barclays behalf. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls Mrs S had with Barclays following the text 
alert  the summary of which Ive outlined in the background above. And Im satisfied the 
advisor did his best to try and assist Mrs S with providing Barclays with the information it 
needed despite Mrs S being inflexible in trying to meet this reasonable request and at times, 
I think, sarcastic and rude to him. So when Mrs S still failed to provide the information 
requested I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to go ahead and progress the 
closure of Rs business account.
Ive no doubt the closure of Mrs Ss business account resulted in an enormous amount of 
stress and inconvenience for her  this is very clear in the phone calls Ive listened to. And I 
agree that Barclays customer service wasnt as good as I think it shouldve been. Mrs S was 
clearly very distressed and spent an unreasonable amount of time on hold and chasing to 
find out what had happened to the proceeds of her business account. But I can see that 
Barclays did react to Mrs Ss distress and escalated the matter to have the proceeds 
transferred to her as soon as it could as well as compensating her £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused which I think is fair and reasonable. 
So it follows that I do not think Barclays made a mistake in closing Rs business account and 
although I think Barclays service couldve been better, I think the £75 compensation already 
paid is fair and Im not going to ask Barclays do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Rs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 Caroline Davies
Ombudsman