DRN-2004872
The complaint
Miss D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) 
informed her she was in arrears with her loan despite having repaid it. 
What happened
Miss D has a loan account with Oakbrook and telephoned them for an early settlement figure 
and repaid the loan. Miss D says she was initially told the loan was settled but on speaking 
to Oakbrook a few days later she was told her account was in arrears, as the direct debit for 
the loan payment for that month had been returned unpaid. Miss D wants her account closed 
and any adverse credit information removed from her file. 
Oakbrook says when Miss D telephoned for the early settlement figure for her loan she was 
given an amount that included the direct debit that was due that day, not being aware Miss D 
had cancelled the direct debit with her bank the same day. Oakbrook says Miss D is in 
arrears by the amount of the direct debit and needs to settle this. 
Miss D wasnt happy with Oakbrooks response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available and upheld Miss Ds complaint. While 
the investigator agreed with Oakbrook the arrears amount was still due to be repaid by Miss 
D, given the issue surrounding the arrears wasnt made clear to her they should amend her 
credit file and pay £75 for the inconvenience caused. 
Oakbrook have accepted the Investigators view although Miss D wasnt happy concerning 
her arrears position and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator but for slightly 
different reasons.
When looking into this complaint I have considered if Oakbrook acted correctly when 
providing Miss D with the early settlement figure and were clear to her regarding any arrears 
as a result. 
I can understand that it would be upsetting for Miss D to think she had settled her loan with 
Oakbrook, only to find that she still owed monies to them putting her into arrears.
What happened here is that Miss D contacted Oakbrook at the same time her usual monthly 
direct debit was due to be paid and when she asked for a redemption figure for her loan, 
Oakbrook took into account the direct debit payment due. When Miss D then contacted 
Oakbrook a day or so later they didnt make clear to her that as the direct debit was 
cancelled, she still owed them this amount. 
It was only when Miss D made a further telephone call to Oakbrook, this was explained to 
her. 
The investigator has discussed this with Oakbrook, and they have since accepted that they 
hadnt been clear to Miss D when she contacted them for a settlement figure, that this 
amount included the direct debit due at the time and as a result have agreed to amend her 
credit file accordingly.  Oakbrook have stated that the £158.50 representing the cancelled 
direct debit payment is still outstanding. 
I have considered this and while Miss D my not agree, I am satisfied the £158.50 remains 
due and should now be settled by Miss D. Although there is acceptance by Oakbrook, they 
should have explained the direct debit due, was included in the redemption figure they gave, 
thats not to say it isnt still due. I would say Miss D also had some responsibility here to let 
Oakbrook know she was cancelling the direct debit as that would have resulted in them 
providing a higher early settlement figure than they did. 
Where I differ slightly from the investigator is where she says there are no arrears because 
Miss D had paid back more than she would have ordinarily at the point she thought she 
repaid the loan. The loan would still go into arrears if a monthly payment was missed , and 
that is what happened here. The early settlement figure included the direct debit due that 
month and therefore by cancelling it, Miss D didnt fully repay the loan and inadvertently 
created the arrears as a result. 
I do support the investigators view, because Oakbrook, by their own admission, hadnt been 
clear in telephone calls with Miss D concerning the unpaid direct debit and the arrears it had 
created, they should compensate her for that and amend her credit file accordingly.  
I can see that Oakbrook have now taken steps to amend Miss Ds credit file and have 
agreed to pay her £75 by way of compensation for any inconvenience caused. I think that is 
a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances and this is what I would have expected 
to see. 
While Miss D will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied the investigators outcome 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I would suggest that Miss D contacts Oakbrook 
to make arrangements to settle the outstanding balance due. 
Putting things right
I instruct Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to pay Miss D £75 for the trouble 
and upset caused and if not already undertaken, Oakbrook should amend her credit file to 
reflect she is not in arrears. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Oakbrook Finance Limited 
trading as Likely Loans to pay Miss D £75 for the trouble and upset caused and if not 
already undertaken, they should amend her credit file to reflect she is not in arrears. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman