DRN-3303444
The complaint
Mr I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Huobi.com) refuses to refund money he 
lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr I received a message on Whatsapp from an unknown number. The person befriended 
him and after about a month invited him to join a trading group. He was asked to deposit 
money onto a website called Huobi.com and then he was told hed need to subsequently 
transfer funds to his online trading account. Mr I used his NatWest Visa debit card to pay 
Huobi.com £369 on 26 August 2021. He saw that his trading platform had made a lot of 
profits but when he tried to withdraw his funds, his requests were refused.
 
In November 2021, Mr I complained to NatWest and asked for assistance with recovering his 
payment. NatWest said it couldnt assist him with a chargeback claim.
Mr I referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He didnt think NatWest could have 
assisted with a chargeback claim and he didnt think it could have known Mr I was falling 
victim to a scam. 
Mr I asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Its therefore been passed 
to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr I.
NatWest concluded it had no chargeback rights that covered the situation Mr I found himself 
in. It said he paid Huobi.com, which is a transfer company and invited Mr I to provide 
evidence that they didnt send his payment to his trading account. When Mr I was unable to 
provide this evidence, NatWest concluded it couldnt help him with a chargeback claim. 
Having looked into Huobi.com, I can see its in the business of buying and selling crypto 
(amongst other things). I think its likely - based on Mr Is testimony  that he would have 
received a service from Huobi.com which would have involved changing his £sterling into 
crypto before sending it onto his trading account. His disagreement is with the scammers 
that ran his trading platform, not Huobi.com. Ive seen that Mr I provided evidence to show 
his withdrawal request from his trading account was cancelled but NatWest could only have 
processed a chargeback claim against the recipient of Mr Is payment, which was 
Huobi.com, not the scammers. I consider Mr I stood no reasonable prospect of success if 
NatWest had processed a chargeback claim against Huobi.com, so I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by choosing not to do so.
Fraud prevention
I dont think NatWest could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payment Mr I lost. 
This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr I is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, NatWest should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but it 
cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
In my opinion, the payment here was not unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to 
reasonably say NatWest shouldnt have allowed the payment through without first getting in 
touch with Mr I to check everything was in order. It was for a relatively low value and it was a 
single payment to a legitimate business. 
This means that as NatWest didnt interact with Mr I at the time of the payment  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say NatWest ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mr I about it  Im satisfied NatWest didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payment before it was sent. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Is loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman