DRN-3148292
The complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was as 
the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
Mr T has said that in or around April 2019 he met a third party via an escort service he had 
found online. Mr T has said he paid £300 for the initial meeting. During this meeting Mr T has 
said he exchanged contact details with the third party, and they began to contact each other 
directly, rather than through the escort agency.
Mr T has said that they met up at least once or twice a week and formed a relationship  in 
total meeting over twenty times. After around three or four weeks of meeting and talking to 
each other, Mr T has said they discussed moving to Romania, with a view to purchasing a 
house. The third party told Mr T there was somebody in Romania who was a legal 
representative who would be able to make the arrangements  but Mr T never had direct 
contact with them.
The third party and Mr T also discussed plans to get married. Mr T has explained he had no 
commitments in the UK and was looking forward to a fresh start. He told us that he 
communicated on a daily basis with the third party through messages  but all of the 
messages have been deleted.
Mr T began to make transfers to the third party from another bank account he held  all on 
the belief that the money was going towards the purchase of the property. At one point, 
concerned about the activity on his account, Mr Ts other bank stopped a transfer he was 
trying to make and called the police, who attended the branch. Mr T was warned by the 
police that this might be a scam. Mr T discussed this with the third party, and hes said they 
told him that he should use a different bank account to make the payments.
Believing everything to be genuine Mr T continued to make payments to the third party, but 
now through his Metro account. He made payments through both bank transfers and 
withdrawing cash  at times the bank transfers were made to accounts in different names, 
which the third party had told Mr T were accounts held by their family and friends.
Mr T also allowed the third party to make purchases using his card. Mr T spoke to Metro on 
25 May 2019, as he didnt recognise some card transactions on his account for purchases 
made in retail stores. But the following day he contacted Metro to confirm he didnt want to 
pursue any dispute about the transactions, as they had been carried out by his partner. 
However, Mr T has said that he was unaware of all the cash withdrawals that had been 
made, and that the third party had stolen his card and made cash withdrawals.
Mr T has said he became suspicious when the third party booked a flight using his card 
details, but he never heard from them again. Mr T explained that at this point the third party 
was aware that he had sent all of the money he had  there hadnt been any other falling out 
or reason why the communication would have stopped.
Mr T raised the matter with Metro. It looked into things and issued its final response on 9 
August 2019 not upholding his complaint. It said that this was a civil matter between Mr T 
and the third party.
Mr T also raised the matter with the police, who didnt take things forward as there was a 
lack of evidence. The police have said they located the third party and called them in for 
questioning. The third party had said they were an escort and remembered Mr T. They 
added that all the money that had been paid was for escort services, and they had also 
received shopping trips and other gifts from Mr T. The third party denied being in any 
relationship with Mr T and said there had been no discussions about either a property or 
getting married. They said Mr T had run out of money and could no longer afford to pay for 
their company.
The police said that Mr T didnt identify a photograph of the person who was interviewed as 
the third party. But the police said that it had established the third party had set up a bank 
account (where some of the transfers had been made to) using their genuine identity and 
documents and the email attached to the bank account, was the same as the mail being 
used with the escort agency.
The police also confirmed they had spoken to another party  who had been identified as 
another of the recipients of funds that Mr T had sent. They also confirmed that they were an 
escort and that any money Mr T had sent to them, was because he had also used their 
services. 
Overall, evidentially, the police said there wasnt enough to pursue the investigation further, 
as there was a lack of evidence to support that Mr T and the third party were in a relationship 
and planning to get married and buy a house.
Mr T then brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he said he believes this was a 
scam and that his other bank had refunded 50% of his loss. Overall he thought Metro could 
have done more to protect him, and if it had done, he wouldnt have lost the money he did.  
Mr T has said that he suffers with his health and the situation has led him to be declared 
bankrupt.
One of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, 
in summary he said that based on what he had seen it was difficult to evidence the intention 
of the third party was to deceive Mr T. He said this because it wasnt typical for criminals 
who defraud people to use their genuine identity. The investigator added that the relationship 
Mr T had with the third party was initiated by him having to pay to meet up  and while there 
had been further meetings, there was no evidence to suggest these meetings were a result 
of them forming a non-service based relationship. Our investigator also thought there was 
insufficient evidence to say Mr T hadnt authorised the card payments and cash withdrawals.
 
Overall, our investigator considered it reasonable for Metro to have considered it a civil 
dispute between Mr T and the third party. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary, he felt it was inconsistent for 
him to have received a partial refund from the bank he had made his initial payments from, 
but not receive any refund from Metro.As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im aware Mr T has raised some complaint points in his arguments that relate to another 
bank, which was not Metro. At the outset, I should make it clear that this decision solely 
focuses on Metro and whether it has acted fairly in its dealings with Mr T, when he made the 
payments he disputes.
Having thought very carefully about Metros actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Metro should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr T, I appreciate that this has been a difficult time 
for him. Its understandable for such a significant sum why Mr T feels he may have been the 
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have paid out significant sums are in 
fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Metro has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr T made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payments Mr T made and, in particular, whether Metro ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr T made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr T disagrees. He feels the third party has 
scammed him.Having thought about everything carefully, I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that the third party set out with the intent to defraud Mr T.
I say this as there are a number of factors in the circumstances of this case, that dont carry 
typical hallmarks of this being a scam and Im mindful that this matter has been investigated 
by the police, who have found insufficient evidence to pursue matters.
In effect, it seems to me that this is one persons word against another. In my role, Im 
unable to cross examine all parties that may be involved in a dispute. So I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities and what I think is fair and reasonable, based on the 
circumstances and the evidence I have.
From the evidence Ive seen, it seems clear to me that Mr T initiated contact with the third 
party by paying for their time. There are a substantial number of payments that follow, but I 
have no conclusive evidence to show that Mr T was in a relationship with the third party, so I 
cant safely say, considering Mr T has confirmed he met the third party over twenty times, 
that these ongoing payments were not being paid for anything other than the third parties 
time and these ongoing meetings.
It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to use legitimate 
documents and ask for funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name  
which the police have established was the case here. Importantly, Im very mindful and it 
would be amiss of me to ignore that the police investigation found insufficient evidence to 
enable it to pursue a case of fraud against the third party. And all things considered, where I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise, Im unable to fairly conclude that Mr T has 
lost this money as the result of a scam.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Metro to 
refund the money Mr T has lost, as I dont think Metro treated Mr T unfairly when it said the 
payment he made was not covered by the CRM Code.
Even if I did consider this was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt, for all of the 
reasons I mentioned above, I dont. I dont think I could fairly ask Metro to refund the money 
Mr T lost. Im not persuaded that if Metro had of intervened and spoken to Mr T about the 
payments it would have made a difference and stopped him from making them. The reason I 
say this is that when Mr Ts other bank had requested the police speak to him about 
concerns they had about payments he was making, he continued to make payments. So, in 
the circumstances of this case, I cant fairly or reasonably say that any intervention Metro 
may have made, would more likely than not have made a difference here.
Im persuaded the evidence suggests Mr T consented to the transactions, I say this because 
when Mr T did speak to Metro to dispute some card transactions, he then retracted the 
dispute and explained that his partner had used the card. So I think it more likely than not 
the third party had his card and PIN with his consent and authority to use it.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr T and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Metro to refund the money Mr T has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint 
against Metro Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman