DRN-3306896
The complaint
Mr S complaint is that when entered a hire purchase agreement with Go Car Credit Limited 
(GCC) he was told to use a specific dealer and he believes this resulted in him paying too 
much for the car. 
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with GCC in September 2020 to acquire a car. 
He says he was told he had to acquire the car through a specific dealer and couldnt use the 
dealer he wanted to. He then wanted to sell the car and was told by various third parties that 
he had paid too much for it. He says he was desperate for a car at the time and knew he 
was paying too much but didnt realise the extent of this. Mr S says this issue is causing him 
anxiety and stress. He says he should either be able to return the car and receive a refund 
or keep the car with nothing further to pay as he has paid enough. 
GCC issued its final response letter in July 2021. It said that checks were carried out on the 
price of the car and it had nothing to say this was overvalued at the point of supply. It said 
that at the time of the agreement, GCC wasnt operating at full capacity due to Covid-19 and 
so it had a restricted dealer network. It said that the dealer used was the most suitable 
option at the time and that Mr S was told on the call that his options could be reviewed if 
things didnt work out with the suggested dealer. It says that Mr S didnt raise concerns 
about this. It accepted that Mr S could have been provided with clearer information about the 
relationship between GCC and the dealer used and apologised for this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the evidence suggested the car hadnt 
been greatly inflated. She noted that the dealer would set the price, and this was clearly set 
out in the agreement. She listened to the call recordings from the application process and 
said Mr S was told the dealer that would be most suitable and was told he could look at the 
website and the dealer would call to discuss what it had in stock. She said Mr S was also 
told that if he couldnt agree on a car another dealer in the network could be used. She noted 
the information given about GCC and the dealer and said this wasnt incorrect but noted 
GCC had accepted the association between the companies could have been made clearer. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset as he feels he overpaid for a car in September 2020. He 
believes this was due to being required to use a specific dealer and has noted the 
relationship between the dealer and GCC. I have considered these points however, while I 
know this will be a disappointment to Mr S, I do not find I can uphold his complaint.
Mr S contacted GCC in September 2020 about acquiring a car. I have listened to the calls 
from this time and Mr S is told that the GCC work with an approved dealer network. It is 
suggested that a dealer with delivery would work and he is told he can look at the website 
and that the dealer would then call to discuss options. He is told that if it doesnt work out 
with the dealer suggested then they could look at alternatives. Mr S doesnt raise concerns 
about this at the time. Therefore, I do not find that I can say GCC did anything wrong in this 
process.
Mr S is concerned that he overpaid for the car. The car would have been priced by the 
dealer and Mr S accepted this. The car price was included in the agreement and it was Mr S 
decision to go ahead with this rather than look elsewhere. In regard to the finance provided 
by GCC it has confirmed the amount of finance to value it will accept and has shown 
evidence of the checks it carried out. Our investigator also checked the valuations for the car 
at the point of supply and based on this I dont find I can say the price was greatly inflated or 
GCC was wrong to provide the finance at the level it did.
I note Mr S comment about the link between GCC and the dealer. This has been explained 
and while the information initially provided wasnt incorrect GCC has acknowledged it could 
have been made clearer. Which I find reasonable.
Overall, I do not find that GCC did anything wrong in this process and therefore I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman