DRN-3583660
The complaint
Mrs D complains that MBNA Limited provided her with a credit card which she couldnt afford 
the repayments on.
What happened
MBNA issued a credit card to Mrs D in December 2018. The credit limit was set at £7,700. 
The initial set up of the card included a balance transfer of £3,475. Apart from a £94.52 
balance transfer fee, the card had a 0% interest rate until April 2021. The only other interest 
charged in that period was £3.18 for a purchase that didnt come within the special interest 
rate. Interest was charged after April 2021 at the rate of about 20% for normal purchases.
Mrs D complained to MBNA that she couldnt afford the repayments and the card shouldnt 
have been issued to her considering the amount of debt she was in. MBNA said it had 
considered the information supplied by Mrs D in her application and carried out a credit 
check. It assessed that she was able to afford the repayments on the card. It has pointed out 
that Mrs D kept her account in good order and regularly paid more than the minimum 
payment.
Our investigator initially said that MBNA should have carried out a more thorough financial 
check in light of the amount of credit being advanced and because of the information 
revealed in her bank statements. MBNA pointed out that Mrs Ds salary wasnt paid into that 
account. A subsequent investigator reviewed Mrs Ds other accounts (including an ISA) and 
said that he was unable to say that the credit was unaffordable.
Mrs D disagreed that her complaint shouldnt be upheld and the matter has been passed to 
me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs D would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where MBNA ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ds indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
Mrs D disclosed in her application that she had a gross salary of £30,600. She was a 
homeowner and none of her accounts were in arrears. When MBNA carried out a credit 
search on Mrs D, it was found that she had debt of £15,738  with £7,640 revolving credit 
(credit or store cards) and the rest non-revolving (loans). I understand that those loans were 
with high street lenders. According to her most recent credit report (which she has supplied 
to us), at the time of the application to MBNA, she had six credit cards. I havent seen the full 
search done by MBNA at the time of the application, just a summary. But it would have 
shown that in the months leading up to December 2018 she had a bank account that was 
constantly overdrawn, by up to £2,800. So this should reasonably have prompted MBNA to 
consider further information about Mrs Ds finances.
The bank statements our first investigator considered were not of Mrs Ds main account, at 
least not the account into which her salary was paid. She subsequently provided us with 
copies of bank statements for the second account which was maintained well, albeit it didnt 
have sufficient balances to cancel out the overdraft. But its clear from the statements for this 
second account that Mrs D had other regular sources of income. And she also had a joint 
account (which we havent seen the statements for), and an ISA which as of November 2018 
had £9,300 deposited in it.
Ive also considered whether it was in Mrs Ds interests to have the account. She was able to 
transfer £3,475 from other credit cards to the account and benefit from a 0% interest rate for 
over two years. So it helped her to reduce her debts. Ive noted that she didnt use the card 
very much and was able to reduce the balance on it to £605 by January 2022. Apart from the 
£94.52 balance transfer fee, she was charged interest of £3.18 for 2019 and, once the 0% 
interest rate expired, £90.52 for 2021, and £10.76 for January 2022.
Whilst I note that Mrs D has since used the £9,300 funds from her ISA, at the time of 
applying for the credit card MBNA would have been justified in considering that sum to be 
available to her in repaying her debts. Under the rules MBNA must follow when providing 
credit, it can take account of both income and savings in deciding whether Mrs D could 
afford the credit provided. 
Whilst I note Mrs D had substantial debt on credit cards, by taking advantage of the 
promotional interest rate she would have been able to transfer more than half of that debt to 
a 0% rate. And whilst the £7,700 limit could have been used, and MBNA should have 
considered that she might use the whole limit, I think that if MBNA had seen the information 
supplied by her bank statements its still likely that it would have issued the credit card to 
her. As an aside, since Mrs D made the complaint I note that MBNA has reduced the credit 
limit to £850. This seems sensible in light of Mrs D describing worsening circumstances to 
us.
Overall, I think the credit card served Mrs Ds interests and MBNA was justified in believing 
the monthly payments for the card were affordable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman