DRN-4285646
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain to Citibank UK Limited about the way it handled a dispute they 
raised with it.
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T bought a large order of windows and electric roller blinds and used their 
Citibank debit card to place a deposit.
In summary, Mrs T and Mr T were unhappy with the quality of the goods and installation. 
They said that the product manufacturing was a much lower standard to what the supplier 
led them to believe they would be getting.
Mrs T and Mr T were not able to resolve the dispute with the supplier so they approached 
Citibank for help. 
Citibank raised a chargeback but this was unsuccessful. Mrs T and Mr T did not think that 
Citibank had done enough  and were unhappy with its customer service so they 
complained. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She partly upheld it. In summary, she concluded:
 Citibank followed the chargeback process correctly and were not wrong in 
discontinuing the dispute because the chargeback was unlikely to have succeeded;
 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) does not apply to this 
case; and
 Citibanks customer service could have been better and it should pay £150 
compensation for this.
Mrs T and Mr T disagreed. In summary, they say:
 they have submitted hundreds of photos and tens of thousands of words of evidence 
which overwhelmingly shows that they were mis-sold and received a poor quality 
product;
 chargeback is the equivalent to Section 75 but for debit cards and they have every 
legal right to get back what they paid on the card;
 Citibank did not explain under what circumstances any refund would be taken back  
and did not ask them to provide evidence to counteract the claims of the supplier.
The matter has come to me to decide as ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter where I concluded:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs T and Mr T have submitted a significant amount of evidence  both written and 
photographic about the dispute they have with the supplier. However, I am focusing here on 
what I consider central to the complaint which is how Citibank handled the chargeback. I 
wont be commenting on every bit of evidence  but I do not wish this to be taken as a 
discourtesy. It just reflects my role as an alternative to the court in resolving disputes 
informally.
I think it is worth underlining here that I am deciding what is fair based on the actions of 
Citibank in assisting with the dispute and not the underlying dispute Mrs T and Mr T have 
with the supplier. Citibank did not supply the goods and services so when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable here I am considering whether it acted fairly in its role as a provider of 
financial services. 
When a card payment is made there are usually two main avenues to consider regarding a 
dispute about what was purchased. Section 75 and chargeback. However, in the case of a 
debit card Section 75 does not apply. I note that a debit card was used here so I only 
consider chargeback to be relevant. 
The chargeback process
For clarification, despite Mrs T and Mr Ts comments, chargeback and Section 75 do not 
work in the same way. For example, Section 75 is a legal right whereas chargeback is a 
commercial process run by the card schemes. Chargeback is limited to particular and 
specific chargeback rules and can only possibly recover the amount paid on the card.
While chargeback is limited by specific rules it can be useful  and it is often good practice 
for a financial business to use the process. But it has its limitations  and is not guaranteed 
to recover money. Furthermore, the ultimate decision making, should it reach the end of the 
process (called arbitration) is made by the card scheme  which has to be kept in mind when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the dispute here. 
I note the card scheme in this case is Mastercard  so I have considered the rules in place at 
the time when deciding what is fair and reasonable. Looking at what Citibank did it appears 
that it raised a chargeback for Mrs T and Mr T in respect of goods or services not being as 
described or defective. This appears to be an appropriate reason code to attempt to recover 
the money.
I note the supplier then submitted a lengthy and detailed defence in June 2022 refuting the 
claims that had been made by Mrs T and Mr T and also indicating that it was willing to 
resolve specific issues but had no response when it tried to make an appointment.
At that stage Citibank did not automatically take the dispute further. However, it says that it 
wrote to Mrs T and Mr T on 27 June 2022 with a denial letter with the merchant response 
attached. It says that this letter offered Mrs T and Mr T the opportunity to re-open their 
enquiry and gave them 10 days to submit further information. Citibank dont appear to have 
a copy of this letter but has sent us a template of the wording it would have contained.
Assuming that Mrs and Mr T got the letter (I will come onto the possibility that they didnt 
later) I think that Citibank had acted fairly up until this point. There was a reasonably detailed 
rebuttal from the supplier which (regardless of who was right here) at least put the merits of the dispute in question. So I dont think Citibank was wrong in pausing the process and 
asking for more information.
It then appears that Mrs T and Mr T responded with more information. They say in their 
complaint form:
Due to the magnitude of the problem (lies, deceit, tax fraud, missold products, endless calls 
and emails), our son helped us write a complaint to Citi in September 2022 which explains 
things in far greater detail.
There are 144 points raised in there and over 24 THOUSAND words to clarify in extensive 
detail with dozens and dozens of supportive different pieces of evidence.
However, Citibank says the information came too late for it to take the matter to arbitration. It 
says it had 75 days to do so from when the merchant presented its defence. From what I can 
see Citibank appear to be right here. 
So looking at what happened on face value it appears that Citibank made a reasonable 
attempt to make a chargeback for Mrs T and Mr T but it was out of time for a follow up.
Saying that  I have considered that Mrs T and Mr T might not have received the letter 
Citibank says it sent them on 27 June 2022. I can see some correspondence in August 22 
on the system notes where Mrs T and Mr T question what this letter is  I also note that 
Citibank cant locate the original letter on its file. So there are question marks over what 
happened here with the letter inviting further submissions  although I note that Mrs T and 
Mr T do appear to have at one stage received the merchant defence.
It could be argued that regardless of this letter Mrs T and Mr T reasonably knew they could 
submit more information about the dispute (which they did do in the end) and that due to the 
quantity of information they provided it would have not necessarily have come any sooner 
(and within the chargeback time frames). However, I have considered whether a possible 
mistake by Citibank in not communicating the timeframe for submitting new information 
means that it would have to do something to put things right in any event.
So I have turned to what the likely consequences are of the dispute not being considered at 
arbitration. In doing so I note the following:
this is a complex dispute with several allegations and the supplier strongly contesting 
the customer account and vice versa;
there are extremely lengthy submissions provided - some of which appear to require 
translation;
there appear to be no independent expert reports to support Mrs T and Mr Ts case; 
and
there are several allegations being made against the supplier by Mrs T and Mr T 
including those of a criminal nature  suggesting that the dispute would be more 
suited to a court of law.
Due to the nature of the dispute I think there are doubts as to how the card scheme would 
approach the matter and whether it would consider it was able to make a decision here. But 
in any event  I dont think there is a clear cut case of one party being more likely to succeed than another. So I dont think it is fair to say that Citibank should refund Mrs T and Mr T as if 
they had won the chargeback in the particular circumstances. 
Customer service
I note Citibank does not dispute that its customer service could have been better here. It did 
not appear to communicate well with Mrs T and Mr T at times, for example about the nature 
of the temporary credit. I can see how that would be upsetting for them. Mrs T and Mr T 
point out how this can cause a financial shock if for example the money was needed to pay 
for an urgent health matter and then taken back. However, I dont think this happened here. 
Furthermore, without clarity from Citibank or the supplier to confirm the dispute had been 
conceded I dont think it would have been reasonable for them to treat this money as their 
own noting the ongoing dispute and issues surrounding it. 
As I have also discussed  I think it is possible that Citibank did not clearly outline to Mrs T 
and Mr T the process and timeframes for submitting more information. This would have been 
frustrating too. Citibank has agreed to pay £150 to reflect its customer service failings  and 
noting the impact here and the scale of our awards I think this is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Citibank UK Limited to pay Mrs T and Mr T £150 in 
compensation.
I asked the parties for their comments.
Citibank agreed with my decision.
Mrs T and Mr T did not agree and set out reasons why. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs T and Mr Ts representative has written at length 
as to why they consider a refund is due. However, although I have read and considered 
these submissions and note the strength of feeling I dont think it adds anything new to the 
case. The issues that have been raised are sufficiently covered in my provisional findings (as 
copied above).  
I do note that Mrs T and Mr T continue to mention Section 75  to be clear this does not 
apply to debit card transactions so is not relevant to my decision here.
I also note that a large focus of the response to my decision is in respect of criminal 
allegations and matters of personal safety. It is important to underline this isnt something 
that this service is in a position to consider so I wont be commenting on these further. My 
focus is on how Citibank handled the chargeback claim. 
Because the parties have not added anything that changes my provisional findings I am 
deciding this complaint on the same basis. I still consider these to be fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances here.Putting things right
If Mrs T and Mr T accept my findings then Citibank should pay £150 compensation for the 
reasons I have already set out in my provisional findings. However, for the reasons set out in 
these findings I do not consider it need fairly pay more than this.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Citibank UK Limited to pay Mrs T and Mr T £150 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman