DRN-1619819
 
The complaint
Mr T says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy shortly after taking out a loan (over a term of 49 months) in 1999 
to buy a car. He paid a monthly premium for the PPI which protected his loan repayments if 
he couldnt work due to disability. The PPI also provided life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews had to make Mr T aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI. But Mr T 
says  and Ive listened carefully to a recording of his call with the adjudicator following their 
assessment  that he was led to believe he had to have the PPI because of his credit history 
and that it was sold as forming part and parcel of the loan.
St Andrews has sent us a copy of Mr Ts signed credit agreement, which I can see mentions 
insurances such as PPI but suggests it wasnt added at that stage. St Andrews internal 
records show that the PPI wasnt taken out until almost three weeks after the start of the 
loan.
St Andrews has also provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr T which included a separate 
direct debit instruction for the PPI and setting out the monthly premium, monthly benefit, and 
how long the PPI would run for. Mr T signed and dated it nearly three weeks after his credit 
agreement was dated.
Based on this, and from experience of St Andrews sales practices at the time, I think its 
likely Mr T was sent some documents about PPI after the loan was taken out. And, as the 
loan had already been taken out, I dont think Mr T can reasonably have thought that he had 
to have the PPI to get the loan or that the PPI formed part of it.
So, I think its likely St Andrews made it clear to Mr T that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that he chose to take it out, knowing he didnt have to.Given how the PPI was sold, Im satisfied St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T. 
This meant that, although St Andrews didnt have to make sure the PPI was right for him, it 
did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide for himself if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
Mrs W was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And I dont think 
he had any other significant means of making his repayments if he was work due to accident 
or sickness. So, it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable for him. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Ts lost out because of how St Andrews sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman