DRN-3136265
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E has complained that Aspen Insurance UK Limited unfairly turned 
down a claim under its commercial insurance policy.  
What happened
E runs a travel agent. It held a commercial insurance policy with Aspen which included cover 
for public and product liability and professional indemnity under the combined liability 
section of the policy. Es policy doesnt include business interruption insurance cover. 
E claimed on its policy after needing to cancel events and refund its clients for lost holidays. 
In summary, E said it had decided in May 2020 that its only option was to cease trading in 
order to trigger the various insurance policies it held. 
Aspen turned down Es claim as they said there wasnt cover under the policy for the 
circumstances of the claim.
E complained to Aspen. Despite a number of discussions between the parties Aspen 
maintained they had made the correct decision to decline Es claim. 
Unhappy with Aspens response, E brought its complaint to our service and made a number 
of detailed points. In summary, E thought it should be covered for the impact of Covid-19 
under the peril for pollution. It said that there was an exclusion on one page of the policy 
which was negated by a general extension. E also said that Covid-19 had caused damage to 
property, as E was the property of its directors and the business had been damaged. E 
referred to the judgments in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case as a reason 
why its claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Es claim. 
E provided a detailed response and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Amongst other 
points, E said the Supreme Court judgment said that if a peril arose in relation to pollution or 
contamination that wasnt specifically excluded then there should be cover. E also said that if 
it hadnt taken the decision to trigger other policies then its customers would have sued, 
meaning that it was liable to pay damages. In summary E thought its interpretation of the 
policy as a reasonable person was correct and it should provide cover as a peril has arisen 
which has caused pollution and contamination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, Im not going to 
respond to every point in this decision and will instead focus my decision on what I see as 
the central issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic has had an impact on Es business. However, I wont be 
upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Commercial insurance policies offer protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aspen have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
Section G of the policy is combined liability and indemnifies E for:
A) All sums which the Insured shall become legally liable to pay as damages within 
the Scope of Cover as defined in any Section to which this Certificate applies and 
which arise in connection with the Business.
B) Claimants costs and expenses arising in respect of any claim against the Insured 
which may be the subject of indemnity under this Certificate
C) All costs and expenses incurred by or with the written consent of the Underwriters 
in respect of any claim against the Insured which may be the subject of indemnity 
under this Certificate
D) Legal Representatives Fees
E) Prosecution Defence Costs
F) Court Attendance Costs
This section of the policy is then broken down into sub-sections. I will comment on those 
which E thinks are relevant below.
Public and products liability
E has referred to sub-section 2  which is public and products liability. I understand that E 
thinks that A is relevant to its claim because it is required to reimburse its clients. Ive 
therefore looked at the Scope of Cover under sub-section 2. This provides cover for:
1.1 Accidental Bodily Injury to any person
1.2 Accidental loss of or damage to Property
1.3 Accidental obstruction loss of amenities trespass nuisance or interference 
with any right of way light air or water
I havent seen anything to indicate that 1.1 applies, so I will deal with 1.2 and 1.3 in turn.
I dont think the payments E made to its clients result from accidental loss of or damage to 
property. Ill explain why.
Property is defined in the policy as:
property which is both material and tangible
I understand E thinks that as a company it is tangible property which suffered loss or 
damage. I think that the definition of property indicates that for something to be material and 
tangible it would need to be physical property, such as any buildings or contents owned by 
E. I dont think that I can reasonably conclude that E as a limited company is material and 
tangible property in the context of this policy. In any event, there is an exclusion in this sub-
section which excludes cover for any property owned by the insured.  When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of the law. In considering what 
constitutes damage to property Ive considered case law, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz 
Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 
557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. I 
understand E thinks these are more relevant to business interruption insurance claims, but I 
think theyre also relevant in determining what constitutes damage. 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare 
settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist and the presence of any particular 
virus isnt automatically damage. So, I dont think 1.2 provides cover for Es claim.
For 1.3 to provide cover E would need to be legally liable to pay damages due to accidental 
obstruction, loss of amenities, trespass, nuisance or interference with any right of way, light, 
air or water. While the Government regulations might have prevented E using its business 
premises I dont think the Regulations were imposed accidentally and as such I dont think 
this section of the policy covers Es claim. 
Professional indemnity
E has also referred to sub-section 3 which relates to professional indemnity cover. The 
Scope of Cover under this section of the policy says:
The Underwriters will indemnify the Insured against all sums which the Insured 
shall become legally liable to pay as damages in respect of claims made and 
notified in writing during the Period of Insurance for breach of professional duty in 
the course of the Insured's Business by reason of any neglect error or omission 
occurring or committed in good faith by the Insured
The money E needed to refund to its clients was as a result of cancelled holidays. I dont 
think clients cancelling holidays due to Covid-19 or the Governments actions in response to 
the pandemic can reasonably be considered to be due to a breach of Es professional duty. 
I understand E also took out a loan which it wasnt ultimately able to service. However, I 
dont think that would amount to damages. Therefore, this section also doesnt provide cover 
for Es claim.  
Pollution
E has also referred to the general extension which provides cover for sudden and 
unintended pollution. I dont intend to make a finding on whether Covid-19 would be 
considered pollution because the extension requires there to have been a bodily injury or 
loss of, or damage to property. I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to property for the 
reasons set out above. I dont intend to comment on whether this negates a general 
exclusion as it doesnt provide cover anyway. FCA test case
E has referred to the High Court and Supreme Court judgments in support of why its claim 
should be paid. In particular that the pandemic and the Governments response should be 
treated as a single cause of loss and that interpretation of the policy should be accorded the 
meaning that they would to a reasonable person.
However, I dont think these points impact Es claim. I say that because there isnt anything 
in the policy that provides cover for either the Covid-19 pandemic or the Governments 
response. And I think the policy wording is clear in setting this out. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aspen to pay Es claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman