DRN-2744974
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that, Mr B and Mrs B took out in 1999 with Lloyds Bank 
UK plc, and repaid in 2003. They believe the mortgage was mis-sold. 
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in 
detail here; not least because many of the circumstances are a little out of the ordinary and 
not commonplace. 
Mr B and Mrs B have given us some very sensitive personal information that we have 
treated as confidential. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any 
information here that might result in Mr B and Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Also, any 
figures I may have referenced are rounded.
Mr B and Mrs B took the mortgage in 1999 and repaid it in 2003 after Mr Bs employment 
was ended unexpectedly. The gist of their complaint is that the mortgage would have been 
unaffordable in retirement if it had run full term, hence it was mis-sold in 1999. Theyre also 
challenging some transactions on the account that they say havent been properly explained.
We initially thought the complaint might be time-barred under our rules, but Lloyds later 
consented to us considering the case. When we did so, our investigator didnt think Lloyds 
had done anything wrong. Mr B and Mrs B have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete or missing altogether (not unusual in a case such as 
this where the mortgage started and finished so long ago) we reach our findings on what we 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the 
same test that the courts use in civil cases.
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time and considered generally whether Lloyds did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards that apply today as they didnt exist in 1999. Nor can I take into account 
any hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ill begin with the loan term. If the mortgage had run full term it would have ended when Mr B 
and Mrs B were 65 and 68 respectively. Mr B and Mrs B say this was wrong because in 
1999, Mrs Bs retirement age was 60. I think theres an important distinction to be made here 
between retirement date and state pension age. The distinction is that only the latter is a 
fixed point in time (unless legislation is enacted to change it). 
Theres no such thing as a fixed retirement date. So it was Mrs Bs state pension age that 
was 60 in 1999 (albeit it has risen since) not necessarily her retirement age. All other things 
being equal and barring unforeseen events (for example, a deterioration in health) a person 
can choose whether to retire when they reach state pension age or continue working after 
they begin receiving a pension. 
Lenders have always had a general duty to lend responsibly. But at the time this mortgage 
was sold in 1999, there would be nothing untoward in providing a joint mortgage to a couple, 
one of whom would reach state pension age (which, as Ive said, isnt necessarily the same 
thing as retirement age) before the mortgage term ended. The mortgage was due to finish in 
the same year that Mr B was due to reach state pension age. I dont find it likely that Lloyds 
could have foreseen at the time of the sale, the events that led to Mr Bs employment ending 
in 2003.
Ive looked carefully at the transactions on the mortgage that Mr B and Mrs B have 
questioned, and considered the explanations Lloyds has given for them. Overall, I not 
persuaded anything is amiss here. Lloyds says the adjustment of just over £900 in 2001 was 
a refund to Mr B and Mrs Bs bank account of money paid by the Department for Social 
Security (a former name of the current Department for Work and Pension) that had left the 
mortgage in credit. I cant be sure if that explanation is correct, given the lapse of time. But in 
any event, theres nothing to suggest the transaction involved any loss to Mr B and Mrs B.
That brings me to the three disputed charges; firstly, it was normal at that time for a lender to 
add the interest that had accrued since the last annual statement to the redemption balance. 
Next, if a mortgage is redeemed during the period that a fixed rate deal is active, the contract 
will typically allow the lender to apply an early repayment charge. Finally, its also standard 
practice for a mortgage contract to permit the lender to apply a fee on redemption for 
administration.
That brings me lastly to what Mr B and Mrs B have said about how their attempt to raise this 
complaint in 2012 was dealt with by Lloyds. Our rules also set out the matters that we can 
look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying money by 
plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about 
ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a consumer believes was mis-handled. Here, however, I havent upheld the underlying complaint, which means I dont 
have the power to consider Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns about what happened in 2012.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman