DRN-3519210
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy at the amount of overdraft charges and fees applied to his accounts by 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). He says the fees applied have contributed to his 
financial hardship. 
What happened
Mr R complained to NatWest about the charges applied to his accounts. NatWest says as 
one of Mr Rs accounts was closed in 2004 (more than 6 years ago) it was unable to 
consider the charges applied to this account as Mr R had raised his complaint too late and it 
was outside the time limits.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and looked Mr Rs accounts ending in 
9478 and 1237 from December 2014 and reached the conclusion NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr R has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear that Ive only considered the overdraft fees applied to his 
accounts from December 2014 to January 2021. And in relation to any charges applied I 
havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr R if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Rs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr R was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr R fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr R unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because NatWest have told us that Mr Rs account ending 9478 didnt have an 
overdraft facility and having looked at Mr Rs statements for the period in question I cant see 
that Mr R has suffered any overdraft charges on this account.
In regards to account ending 1237 NatWest have told us that Mr R had an overdraft of £250 
which was removed on the 1 February 2015. On this account I can see that there was one 
charge applied of £6 for using the overdraft facility in February 2015. And I can see little on 
Mr Rs bank statements for the period in question to suggest that Mr R might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties. Indeed Mr Rs statements show that he was in credit on 
both accounts with mostly a healthy balance and if he did become overdrawn it was sporadic 
lasting less than a day on a handful of occasions over the six year period looked at.  
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr R wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest 
to any potential financial difficulty before Mr R raised it. 
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Rs account 
was being used. And I dont think that NatWest treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably and 
this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman