DRN-2574395
The complaint
Mr K complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
withdrawals which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr K said he lost his card. On 19 May 2020, he ordered a new one by internet banking, 
which Mr K used to carry out balance checks and other transactions nearly every day. 
Mr K went into a branch on 29 May. He told staff that his replacement card hadnt arrived, 
and he wanted to withdraw some cash. Branch staff told Mr K that there had been multiple 
cash machine withdrawals on his account using the new card. These totalled £3,900. Mr K 
said he hadnt made those withdrawals and asked Halifax for a refund.
Mr K hadnt requested a new PIN, just a new card. He told Halifax that he believed the card 
must have been intercepted in the post, but he didnt know how anyone could have known 
his PIN. He said he hadnt given anyone his card. Nor had he told anyone his PIN or written 
it down. Mr K said he lived alone and post was delivered straight through his door. He also 
told Halifax that he was diagnosed as bipolar and what had happened was affecting his 
mental health.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint and refused to refund him with the £3,900. It said it 
had investigated and there was nothing to suggest the transactions had been carried out by 
someone who had fraudulently obtained Mr Ks security information. Halifax pointed out that 
whoever carried out the transactions had got the PIN correct every time. And it explained 
that there are 10,000 possible PIN numbers so it was unlikely a third party had guessed Mr 
Ks PIN.
Mr K complained to this service. He asked if we could check CCTV for all the withdrawals to 
prove he hadnt made them. He said he had financial difficulties because of the withdrawals.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that he didnt think CCTV was 
relevant, because Mr K had said he thought the card had been intercepted in the post. What 
was more relevant was to consider how Mr Ks PIN could have been obtained by a third 
party without Mr K knowing. The investigator thought it was more likely than not that Mr K 
had authorised the transactions himself.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said he hadnt authorised the 
payments, and hed know if hed given his details to anyone, and he hadnt. He said the 
investigator was making him out to be lying, and this just wasnt fair. He said he wanted the 
CCTV footage, so whoever did it could be held accountable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr K has told us that what happened wasnt helping his existing medical condition, and 
I can understand it must have been stressful for him. 
The regulations about disputed transactions
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in May 2020 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax) 
must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, I have 
checked the computer records from Halifax. These show that the withdrawals were all 
carried out using the genuine new card with its chip, and Mr Ks correct PIN. So the disputed 
payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether or not Mr K authorised the 16 withdrawals himself.
CCTV
Mr K is keen to have CCTV for all of the 16 withdrawals in May 2020. But even if there had 
been working CCTV at all the cash machines used, its unlikely it would still have been 
available by the time of Mr Ks complaint, let alone now. In any case, CCTV rarely shows 
clearly whoever has withdrawn money at a cash machine. So Im not persuaded that CCTV 
would have been useful, even if it had still been available.
And the main issue here is actually about how anyone other than Mr K could have known the 
correct PIN to go with the new card.
Whats most likely to have happened 
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
withdrawals could have been made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Mr K, 
or by Mr K himself.
I dont consider its likely that an unknown third party carried out the withdrawals. Mr K thinks 
the new card was intercepted in the post, but he has his own individual letter box at his 
home. And the correct address was used. So its unlikely the card was intercepted in the 
post. But even if it had been, the real issue is how any third party unknown to Mr K could 
have known his PIN. 
Mr K didnt request a new PIN on 19 May, just a new card. So the PIN used in the disputed 
transactions couldnt have been intercepted through the post at a similar time, and in any 
case PINs arent sent together with new cards. Its not at all clear how any unknown third 
party could have obtained Mr Ks correct PIN. Mr K told us hed memorised it and didnt have 
it written down. As Halifax told Mr K, there are 10,000 possible options for a PIN. 
Ive also seen that the day before the disputed withdrawals, Mr Ks account received a large 
Coronavirus grant from HMRC. I cant see how a third party unknown to Mr K would have known that this money had come in, making a larger balance which was available for 
withdrawals.
So I consider its unlikely that a third party unknown to Mr K made the withdrawals.
Ive also considered whether or not the withdrawals might have been carried out by 
someone known to Mr K. But he told us he lives alone. And as he had memorised the PIN 
and didnt have it written down, no visitor could have obtained it while at his property.
So the only option which remains is that its more likely than not that Mr K carried out the 
transactions himself.
Finally, Mr K said that he had financial difficulties because of the withdrawals. I can see that 
Halifax has told Mr K that if hes struggling with his finances, he can contact Halifaxs money 
management team for help, and its provided contact details. I consider Halifax has acted 
fairly in offering to provide positive support in this way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman