DRN-2142785
The complaint
Mrs L, and the estate of Mr L, are unhappy with the service Mrs L and the late Mr L received 
from Union Reiseversicherung when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were on holiday when Mr L was admitted to hospital on 17 February 2019. 
Mr L was 83 at the time and Mrs L was 78. He was diagnosed with a serious medical 
condition.
Mr and Mrs Ls family contacted URV to let them know the situation on 20 February and 
URV requested Mr Ls medical history the following day. They chased up the information on 
22 February and it was sent by the GP on the 25 February. As a number of medical 
conditions hadnt been disclosed to URV the case was referred to the underwriter. Cover 
was confirmed two days later on 27 February by which time Mr Ls family had arranged an 
air ambulance to bring him back to the UK. A claim was submitted, including for the cost of 
the air ambulance, which was approximately £11, 000. 
URV offered £2500 in settlement of the claim. They said Mr L could have been flown home 
on a commercial flight with a nurse escort and that an air ambulance wasnt medically 
necessary. In response to a complaint made on Mr and Mrs Ls behalf URV agreed to pay 
£50 compensation for delays in the claim being reviewed and responded to. Unhappy, Mrs L 
and the estate of Mr L made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Having obtained further information from 
URV and Mrs L he upheld the complaint. He referred to the report prepared by the air 
ambulance company which confirmed Mr L was unable to move and had to use a wheelchair 
to access the toilet. He also noted that the medical condition carried a substantial risk of 
infection and that the crew had to wear face masks to protect Mr L. Bearing in mind the 
nature of the condition and the overall circumstances he thought it was fair and reasonable 
for URV to cover the cost of the air ambulance because he thought it was unlikely that Mr L 
would have been able to return on a commercial flight. He also increased the compensation 
to £300 to reflect the lack of assistance and guidance given to Mrs L. 
URV agreed to pay the increased compensation but didnt agree to cover the cost of the air 
ambulance. They explained they had consulted with their medical team and, in summary, 
they said: 
Mr L was in a large major university teaching hospital in one of that countrys richest 
regions, provisioned with state of the art equipment, a high calibre of staff and many 
English doctors
They are often asked by relatives of patients in that hospital to delay transfer to the 
UK because they doubt the NHS will match the quality of care there
Mr L was being treated suitably and the medical team wanted to ensure that the 
infection on Mr Ls skin was under control before flying him home. And they wanted 
to see that he was responding to treatment and pain control 
The risk of infection could be appropriately controlled with the use of personal 
protection equipment 
The comments about Mr Ls mobility, in the context of this case, simply meant an 
ability for him to lift their head for a few minutes. URVs nurse escorts manage 
everything else and would have ensured Mr Ls comfort. Mr L could go to the 
lavatory by wheelchair and this demonstrated sufficient mobility for their transport 
needs 
The medical team do not ever recall having repatriated a patient with Mr Ls condition 
via air ambulance  in this case is was neither necessary or appropriate.  
The estate of Mr L also made some further comments in response to the above points from 
URV. In summary, they said that: 
URV hadnt spoken to the medical team to discuss Mr Ls condition 
The treating doctors were anxious to return Mr L to the UK so that he could start 
treatment 
URV wasted precious time in their fathers last weeks
The lack of contact from URV meant that they felt they had no choice but to get Mr L 
home. 
I now need to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the experience Mr and Mrs L, and their family had. Im sure that it 
was a distressing and upsetting experience for all of them. Im also sorry to hear that Mr L 
died within a few weeks of returning to the UK. 
The key issues that I need to decide in this complaint are whether URV treated Mr and Mrs L 
fairly during the time that Mr L was unwell abroad and whether its fair for URV to cover the 
cost of the air ambulance.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. The FCA Guidance given in the Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers (RPDD) includes the Regulators guidance on what the combination 
of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers and distributors of financial services. 
The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on 
the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
The relevant FCA regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say that URV wont cover:
the cost of early repatriation when medical treatment of a standard acceptable 
by our medical director is available locally
 
any costs where you are an inpatient or it is repatriation claim and our 24 hour 
emergency assistance service has not been notified or has not agreed the 
costs, we reserve the right to decline associated costs. 
The service provided to Mr and Mrs L whilst they were abroad 
URVs records show that the claim was first logged on the 20 February 2019. The medical 
team reviewed the case and recommended that URV accessed information about Mr Ls 
previous medical history. Thats not uncommon and is standard industry practice. This was 
requested on 21 February and chased the next day. However, due to the weekend, when its 
likely the GP surgery was shut, it wasnt received until the 25 February. 
Mr L hadnt declared all of his pre-existing medical conditions and therefore the case was 
referred to the underwriter on 25 February. Again, thats not uncommon and is relevant to 
whether there is a valid claim under the policy. However, it took until 27 February for the 
underwriter to confirm cover. I dont think that was a reasonable timeframe given that Mr L 
had been in hospital since 17 February and that he had been diagnosed with a serious, and 
likely terminal, condition at the age of 83. URV were also told by the family on 26 February 
that there was a 48 window to get Mr L home.  
Throughout that time contact was driven by the family members and URV werent proactive 
about keeping them up to date or linking in with the treating team. Even though cover hadnt 
been verified thats something that URV ought to have done to ensure that they were up to 
date on Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and so that they could have options in mind for his 
case ready for when the decision on cover had been made. Instead, Mrs L and other family 
members didnt receive a good level of communication and there was no attempt to contact 
the treating team, even though Mr L had been in hospital for ten days by the time that cover 
was confirmed, seven of which URV were aware of his admission. So, I dont think Mr and 
Mrs L received a good level of service during that time.  The cost of the air ambulance 
The crux of URVs argument is that it was neither medically necessary or appropriate for Mr 
L to return by air ambulance. Im not persuaded by the further representations theyve made 
on this point for the reasons Ill go onto explain. 
The evidence from the air ambulance medical report shows that Mr L returned to the UK on 
a stretcher rather than in a wheelchair. It describes Mr Ls mobility as: 
unable to walk, unable to stand. Has been transferred to the toilet with a wheelchair.
The family also said Mr L was also at high risk of infection due to his medical condition. The 
NHS website confirms that to be correct. The air ambulance team were required to wear 
face masks to prevent the risk of infection and I dont think its reasonable for URV to 
conclude that the risk of infection could be adequately managed on a commercial flight in the 
circumstances of this case. The air ambulance report also concluded that Mr L needed a 
required protective/inverse isolation for transfer together with contact isolation for transfer. 
The medical evidence says his immune system was compromised and I think therefore a 
commercial flight is likely to have presented a greater risk to Mr L, together with the other 
complicating factors relating to his overall health, age and mobility.  
Based on the evidence thats available I dont think it was fair and reasonable for URV to 
conclude that Mr L, given his age, mobility and overall condition, would have been fit for 
travel on a commercial flight.  
Although URV says that they were waiting to get Mr Ls skin infection under control thats not 
reflected in the contemporaneous notes Ive seen which make no mention of any specific 
plans for Mr Ls repatriation at all. Based on the evidence Ive seen the extent of the medical 
teams involvement was to review the initial report from the hospital and recommend Mr Ls 
medical history was obtained. And it later reviewed Mr Ls pre-existing medical history when 
it was sent by the GP. 
The first detailed note relating to URVs plan to repatriate via commercial flight once the 
infection had settled is dated April 2019. And, as Ive outlined above there was no 
communication between URV and the medical team treating team about Mr Ls condition, 
despite the fact hed been in hospital for ten days by the time they confirmed cover (seven 
days of which they had been aware of the circumstances and his diagnosis). 
Based on the evidence provided I dont think URV has demonstrated that Mr Ls needs could 
be accommodated by nurse escorts on a commercial flight and that Mr Ls required mobility 
during the flight would be confined to lifting his head. For example, theyve not explained 
how he would access the toilet during the flight if needed, or whether it would have been an 
option to catheterise him. 
URV has said that they often have patients asking to stay at the hospital where Mr L was. I 
dont think thats relevant in the circumstances of this case. Mr L and his family were clear 
that they wanted to get Mr L home and, given that hed received a likely terminal diagnosis, I 
dont think committing him to an ongoing stay in a foreign hospital was fair or reasonable. Finally, whilst URV may well have repatriated other people with the same condition via 
commercial flight, it doesnt automatically follow that was the fair and reasonable approach in 
Mr Ls case. Every case turns on its own facts and based on the evidence in this case it 
seems unlikely to me that URV would have been able to repatriate Mr L via a commercial 
airline within a reasonable timescale. I also note that Mr L sadly died within a few weeks of 
returning to the UK, around a month after his initial diagnosis. 
   
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date that our service tells it that Mrs L and the estate of Mr L has 
accepted our decision URV needs to put things right by paying: 
the cost of the air ambulance in full (minus the relevant costs they have paid towards 
the settlement already) 
 
a total of £300 compensation for the poor communication and service Mr and Mrs L 
received during their time abroad
8% simple interest from the date the claim was originally settled by URV to the date 
of settlement. 
If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs L and the estate of Mr L how much its taken off. It should also 
give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs L and the estate of Mr Ls complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG 
and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and the 
estate of Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman