DRN-2444243
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed him to withdraw £200 which put him into an 
unarranged overdraft.
 
What happened
Mr C withdrew a total of £200 from a LINK cash machine on 21 June 2020, a Sunday. Mr Cs 
account balance was £5.90 and he didnt have an overdraft facility. The withdrawal meant Mr 
Cs account balance became overdrawn by £194.10. 
On 23 June 2020 Mr C received a DWP payment for £249 into his account which meant his 
balance was no longer overdrawn and he had £54.90. Mr C says, because the funds were 
used to repay his overdrawn balance, he didnt have access to his benefit payment. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds and said hed specifically opened an account that didnt allow him 
to go overdrawn. Lloyds responded on 1 July 2020 but didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Lloyds said that LINK cash machines cant always check an account balance before 
approving a withdrawal when its a non working day. Mr Cs withdrawal on 21 June 2020 was 
made on a Sunday. Lloyds explained that the withdrawal was approved to the maximum 
cash withdrawal limit of £200. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked 
to appeal and said he had specifically opened a current account that wouldnt allow him to 
go overdrawn. Mr C feels Lloyds has deceived him as he was able to withdraw £200 he 
didnt yet have.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has explained that he thought Lloyds would have stopped him making a withdrawal if 
he didnt have cash available. But Lloyds has explained that Mr C used a cash machine 
operated by LINK, another business. The withdrawal in question took place on a Sunday and 
the cash machine wasnt able to check Mr Cs balance. As a result, it approved withdrawals 
up to the cards daily limit of £200. But that did place Mr Cs account into an unarranged 
overdraft position. 
Lloyds didnt charge Mr C for the unarranged overdraft and on 23 June 2020 a £249 DWP 
payment was received which placed Mr Cs account balance in credit. Mr C says the 
situation meant his benefit payment was used to repay the unarranged overdraft, so he 
wasnt able to use the money. But I have to take into account that Mr C withdrew £200 in 
cash around 48 hours before his DWP payment was received. So he did use the money the 
DWP payment repaid. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds made an error and Im 
satisfied it has dealt with this complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling Lloyds to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman