DRN-3848625
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy Saga Services Limited (Saga) failed to renew their holiday let 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had a holiday let property insurance policy, taken out via Saga acting as a 
broker. In June 2021 the policy was due for renewal. Mr and Mrs O were told by Saga, prior 
to the renewal date, that the policy would be automatically renewed, and they didnt need to 
do anything further.
In August 2022 Mr and Mrs O discovered Saga hadnt renewed their policy and instead it 
had lapsed in June 2021, and the property had been uninsured for over a year. 
Mr and Mrs O complained to Saga, and also purchased a new policy.
Saga said a system error had caused the policy to lapse, rather than renew. And they paid a 
total of £125 compensation for the error which left Mr and Mrs Os property uninsured.
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy and approached this service. They said they either wanted 
a higher level of compensation, or a proportion of a potential claim that they couldve needed 
to make if they suffered a loss during that time.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt recommend Saga do anything further. She 
said the compensation already paid by Saga was reasonable. As there were no claims in the 
period Mr and Mrs O were uninsured, she didnt think it would be fair to ask Saga to pay the 
equivalent if a potential claim had arisen.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Saga recognises the renewal should have automatically gone ahead as confirmed in 
Mr and Mrs Os renewal documents sent prior to the renewal date. However, due to a 
system issue, the policy failed to renew, lapsed, and Mr and Mrs O werent told this.
Fortunately, a claim situation didnt arise during this time. As there wasnt a claim situation, 
this didnt lead to a financial loss to Mr and Mrs O as a result of being uninsured. So, I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Saga to pay for a hypothetical loss which could have, but didnt, 
occur.
 
I do understand how distressing it would be for Mr and Mrs O to discover their property was 
uninsured for over a year, which meant they also didnt have public liability cover in force, 
which was important to them given the property is a holiday let.
Saga has paid a total of £125 compensation for what happened. And whilst I do recognise it 
wouldve been distressing for Mr and Mrs O to discover they were uninsured, I think the 
£125 compensation paid by Saga is reasonable. So, Im not going to direct them to increase 
this amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint as the compensation already paid by 
Saga Services Limited is fair and reasonable, so Im not directing them to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman