DRN-3229171
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way in which Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) has handled a claim under her home insurance policy.
There were other parties involved in this complaint on behalf of LV, such as claims agents. 
For ease of reference however, I will refer to LV only in this decision.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss S reported that various items were stolen from her partners car. She 
then made a claim with LV under her home insurance policy and LV commenced the 
validation process. LVs agents contacted third parties to enquire about any relevant CCTV 
footage. It also contacted Miss S to arrange a virtual, and then an in-person meeting.
Miss S complained to LV about various delays in dealing with the claim and the quality of 
service. She wanted an alternative firm of agents to be appointed. LV said it wasnt always 
possible to give a timeframe as to how long it would take to validate a claim. It thought that 
the service quality issue stemmed from its request for an in-person meeting. It reiterated that 
it required such a meeting to take place. Finally, it declined to accommodate Miss Ss 
request to appoint alternative agents.
As Miss S was unhappy with LVs response, she asked our service to investigate, and our 
investigator upheld her complaint. Our investigator provided a detailed chronology of events 
in reaching her view and she concluded that LV had not handled Miss Ss claim fairly and 
reasonably in all respects. She noted that when it became clear that CCTV footage wouldnt 
be forthcoming from the third-party, LV proposed a meeting date April 2021. This meeting 
didnt happen however as a formal complaint was made by Miss S shortly before the 
proposed meeting date. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the agent to 
make further enquiries with LV before proceeding.
The investigator noted that there appeared to have been a misunderstanding regarding a 
further meeting date in May 2021. She thought that this was because LVs e-mail about it 
didnt clearly say that a response was required from Miss S. She also thought that LVs reply 
wasnt professional and that a simple apology would have been sufficient. She felt that this 
response would have caused further upset to Miss S and contributed to the breakdown of 
the relationship between Miss S and LV. The investigator also considered that as the 
proposed meeting at the beginning of May 2021 didnt go ahead as Miss S expected, this 
would also have caused trouble and upset. Our investigator recommended that LV pay 
compensation of £100 in the circumstances.
Our investigator also concluded that if Miss S wished the claim to progress, she would have 
to engage with LV and provide information necessary to validate the claim. 
Miss S remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV is yet to determine whether Ms Ss claim is covered by her home insurance policy. Miss 
Ss complaint is about the way her claim has been handled to date. The issue for me to 
decide therefore, is whether LV has acted fairly and reasonably in handling the initial stages 
of the claim. I dont consider that its done so in all respects for the following reasons.
As to the complaint about delay, LV stated, Youve said you are unhappy weve not been 
able to provide a timeline to complete our validation enquiries. We assess all claims on a 
case by case basis. Whilst weve been able to validate many claims via video call, this hasnt 
been possible in all cases and a face to face meeting at the property has still been 
necessary in some instances. Therefore, it isnt always possible to give a timeframe as to 
how long itll take us to validate a claim.
LV said that it needed to properly validate all claims and ensure there was cover for items. It 
said it required supporting evidence, including CCTV evidence if available. Also, depending 
on the claim, it needed to carry out an inspection of the property or have an in-person 
meeting. It considered this would speed up the process. It also explained that as the theft 
took place in the car park at Miss Ss home, access by LVs agent was necessary. In this 
respect, it referred to the following provision in the insurance policy; you must give us or our 
agents access to examine your property. 
As to Miss Ss complaint about the way shed been treated, LV stated that it considered that 
the issue stemmed from the request for an in-person meeting. LV had referred to this as an 
interview and it said it appreciated Ms Ss comments around the term, but it considered that 
it was another way of saying meeting.
LV said that the in-person meeting didnt go ahead as Miss S hadnt responded to an e-mail 
provisionally offering a May meeting date, and it said that the nature and timing of her 
responses didnt indicate full commitment to the dates and times proposed.
Finally, LV also considered that the current firm of agents were familiar with the background 
and that it was more efficient to use them rather than re-start the process with another firm.
Miss S was dissatisfied and posed the question what is so intricate and challenging about 
progressing this claim whilst acknowledging that I have posed no obstacles. She took great 
exception to use of the word interview for the proposed meeting and said One would 
suggest if you wish to interview an individual that your team contact the Police in relation 
to this matter and offer such investigatory skills to the Police and on initiating such an
investigation questioning why they prematurely closed the log in relation to the crime 
committed relating to my partners vehicle. Miss S was also unhappy with the change in 
format of the meeting from a virtual one.  She questioned what LVs real reason for 
changing the meeting from virtual to in-person and whether it was to look at her lifestyle.
As to meeting arrangements, Miss S said that she provided her availability to LV on a 
number of occasions. She also thought that LV didnt bother to attend the May meeting 
although shed stayed in all day, followed by inadequate excuses. She asked that the claim 
be dealt with by a competent individual/organisation.
Having looked at the timeline of events and detailed documents and evidence, Ive noted 
that LV initially acted promptly following Miss Ss claim in asking for details of the items 
stolen. Miss S also acted quickly in providing receipts for the stolen items as well as a spreadsheet of items. There was then a delay of over a month before LVs agents contacted 
Miss S to propose a meeting and to say that, due to the government restrictions at the time, 
this meeting would be conducted virtually. I dont consider that this initial delay in contacting 
Miss S was reasonable
LV then informed Miss S that it was awaiting confirmation from a third-party as to whether 
there was CCTV footage available. I consider it fair and reasonable for LV to have made 
such enquiries. Miss S then had to chase the loss adjusters over two weeks later. LV stated 
that it hadnt received an adequate response from the third-party. I accept that this was the 
case and Im of the view that CCTV footage may have provided important evidence to speed 
up the claim process. I consider however that LV could have kept Miss S better informed.
LV then agreed that the meeting could take place even though CCTV information hadnt 
been received. It said the meeting could now take place in person due to the relaxing of 
government restrictions. I dont consider this to be an unreasonable approach and I agree 
with LVs view that an in-person meeting would be likely to speed up the process and reduce 
the opportunity for confusion and misunderstanding. This was particularly the case as 
previous correspondence appeared to have resulted in frustration for Miss S.
LV then proposed a date for the meeting within a week. Miss Ss expressed considerable 
dissatisfaction in her response. She was unhappy about the change from a virtual to an in-
person meeting and as to the language and approach used in the letter. I consider that the 
response wasnt helpful and added to Miss Ss frustration, so I agree with our investigator 
that a simple apology from LVs representative would have been preferable. I dont however 
consider that the letter on behalf of LV was wholly unreasonable. Miss S then reasonably 
provided various dates on which shed be available for the proposed meeting.
I note that LVs response provisionally agreeing a meeting date with Miss S in May 2021 
wasnt entirely clear. It said; - Whilst I presently await a reply from insurers in order to 
address the other elements of your correspondence, I can confirm provisional agreement to 
a meeting on the afternoon of Thursday 6 May 2021 and will block my diary accordingly. I 
will respond further in due course. 
There was no follow-up correspondence from LV relating this e-mail however, and its not 
unreasonable to say that Miss S would have assumed that the meeting would go ahead, and 
to set time aside for this purpose. The letter didnt make it clear that a response was required 
from Miss S. Shed also previously provided her availability and proposed four dates which 
included 6 May 2021. I dont therefore consider it fair for LV to say that Miss Ss failure to 
respond is the reason why the meeting didnt go ahead. I agree with our investigator that 
clear proposals to re-arrange the meeting would have sufficed. 
 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that it was entirely fair and reasonable for LV to request all 
relevant information before validating Miss Ss claim. I also conclude that it wasnt 
unreasonable for LV to seek a meeting and to visit the theft location to gain a better 
understanding of the incident and to take account of the surroundings and physical factors.
Im satisfied that a part of the delay in dealing with this claim had been to do with a lack of 
response from a third-party. I also consider that the Covid pandemic is likely to have played 
a role in the way LV had to operate in terms of meetings with its policyholders. LV made it 
clear that government guidance on measures to be taken during such meetings would be 
followed and I consider this to be a reasonable approach. As well as the above however, LV 
didnt ensure clear, customer-friendly communications with Miss S at all times. 
I agree with our investigator that following LVs final response letter in May 2021, it did fairly 
and reasonably explain the next steps to move this claim forward, and a meeting was an important step in doing so. Ive concluded that LV is entitled to appoint loss adjusters and I 
dont consider that their failings are sufficiently serious to enable Miss S to decline to engage 
with them as they carry out their investigations. I agree it makes sense to use a firm already 
familiar with the background to this case and dont consider this to be an unreasonable 
approach by LV.
I conclude that the way this matter has been handled by LV would have caused Miss S 
some trouble and upset. Im satisfied that there have been some limited customer service 
failings by LV. For this reason, I agree that a fair resolution would be for LV to pay 
compensation of £100 to Miss S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Miss Ss complaint and I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss S compensation of £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
LV must also pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss S 
accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman