DRN-1730770
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002 at the same time as 
he applied to re-mortgage in one of the banks branches. The plan included life insurance, 
critical illness cover and PPI. This decision looks solely at the sale of the PPI. The sale of the 
life insurance and critical illness cover is being reviewed as a separate complaint.  
The PPI gave Mr S accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount 
for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete 
(as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  so, on what 
I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax 
sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he was told he needed to take out PPI. I cant know what was said in the meeting 
and Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from Mr Ss sale. But this isnt surprising as it was 
so long ago  and it doesnt automatically mean it was mis-sold. Based on what we know 
about the banks sales process, I think its most likely Mr S completed a TMPP application 
form selecting which elements of the cover he wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say 
this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when selling TMPP at this 
time. And I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales 
process for this sale.
I have considered Mr Ss comments carefully but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, I think its most likely 
Halifax made it clear Mr S had a choice about PPI  and he opted to take it out. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr S. And I think it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances. Mr S told us he was entitled to at least 12 months 
sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 24 months 
for each successful accident and sickness claim. And it also gave Mr S up to 24 months' redundancy cover. This would have allowed him to protect any lump sum payment from his 
employer giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time.
Mr S said he also had a death-in-service benefit but this offers a different kind of cover to 
PPI and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way. Overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr S was sick or lost his job. It gave him protection beyond 
his other means. And this could have been important given the serious consequences of 
defaulting on a debt secured against his home.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr S all the information he needed before deciding to buy 
PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when it first 
made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman