DRN-2299645
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc.
What happened
In October 2019, Barclays placed a block on Mr Bs telephone banking facility.  It 
said this was due to suspicious activity on the account  and it asked Mr B to attend 
one of its branches with identification in order to remove the block and to ensure 
enough security measures were in place going forward.
Mr B complained about this request.  He said he was wheelchair bound and it was 
difficult and inconvenient for him to have to visit a branch.  He also complained that 
whilst the block had been placed on his account, £1000 had gone missing from it.
He was asked to identify the fraudulent transaction, but Barclays say he never did.  
By way of a final response letter dated 11th December 2019, Barclays apologised for 
the delay in dealing with Mr Bs complaint about the block on his account but said 
this was for the security of his account.  It offered £150 for the delay.
Mr B then came to this service.  His complaint points were the same as they were to 
Barclays  but again, he did not identify the transaction relating to the £1000 he said 
had gone missing.
Our investigator thought he couldnt ask Barclays to do anymore in respect of the 
block on the telephone banking.  In respect of the missing money, he asked Mr B to 
identify the transaction he was referring to or at least a date.  Mr B was unable to do 
this, so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will deal with the money which Mr B says is missing from his account first.  I cant 
see that he has ever identified which transaction or transactions he says are 
fraudulent.  I would encourage Mr B to do this and to let Barclays know as it should 
then be allowed the appropriate timescales with which to deal with this complaint. 
I have then considered whether I think Barclays did anything wrong in how it dealt 
with Mr Bs complaint regarding the block on his account  but I dont think it did.
I am pleased to see Barclays was proactive in identifying suspicious activity on Mr 
Bs account and I can see in the past, it has contacted him about transactions in 
order to ensure he is happy to make them.  Its what we would expect to see.
So, when it was concerned about the activity in October 2019, it took steps to block 
Mr Bs telephone banking.  I think it was reasonable for it to do so and to also ask 
that Mr B attends a branch to confirm his identity.  These are measures put in place 
to keep Mr Bs money safe.
Im sorry it was inconvenient for Mr B to go into branch on this occasion due to 
mobility issues, but I can see Barclays has arranged home visits for him in the past 
when he has said he is struggling.  I cant see that he raised this on this occasion.  I 
think if he had, its likely Barclays would have tried to assist him further.
In the circumstances, based on what I have seen and heard, I have seen nothing to 
suggest Barclays did anything wrong in how it dealt with Mr Bs complaint.  The offer 
of £150 is a fair and reasonable one for the delay and I dont propose to increase on 
that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman