DRN-2414800
The complaint
Mrs A complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) has failed to refund 
transactions she made on her credit card and subsequently disputed.  
What happened
Mrs As daughter (who I will call D) was interested in acting and modelling. In February 
2020 she, along with Mrs A, researched agencies she could sign up to and came across a 
company I will call G. They filled out an online form and were contacted by G shortly after 
inviting them to an assessment at a studio in London. Mrs A was asked to pay a £50 deposit, 
which she did.
On 29 February 2020 Mrs A and D attended the assessment at Gs studio. Mrs A says D 
had a few photoshoots and then they were both asked to wait while Gs representatives 
discussed whether D had been successful. Mrs A says she was told D had been successful 
and was then taken into an unlit room where she was subjected to a hard sell by Gs 
representatives for 32 photos on a USB stick and a promotion service for D where they 
would, among other things, manage her for 12 months and obtain at least two jobs per week 
for her, and get her on the front page of a magazine.
Mrs A says she was initially asked to pay between £2,500 and £3,500, but after explaining 
that she could not afford this much, G accepted a payment of £500 on Mrs As Creation-
backed credit card for the same package of services. Mrs A says she signed a document 
which she believed included what had been agreed verbally, by the dim light of a laptop 
screen. She says it was only later, on the way home, that she realised what she had signed 
didnt reflect what had been promised verbally. She says she then went online and 
discovered G was involved in a scam. 
I wont go into great detail about the events which followed, and will summarise only briefly. 
Mrs A complained to G the following day and continued pursuing this complaint for some 
months without receiving any substantive reply from the company. She also complained to 
Creation, asking first for it to stop the £500 payment and then to reclaim the full £550 she 
had paid for her. She also contacted other organisations such as ActionFraud.
Creation didnt agree to refund the money. It said that Mrs A had not signed a document 
saying G would help D with a modelling career. All the document said was that it would 
provide her with photos on a USB stick, which it had. It didnt think there was enough 
evidence for them to attempt to reclaim the money back from Gs bank or agree to a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mrs A was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter and thought the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs A met the criteria for a chargeback and 
Creation could have claimed the money back for her in this way had they pursued this 
robustly. She also thought the necessary technical criteria for a section 75 claim were in 
place, and furthermore that G had made misrepresentations to Mrs A which had induced her 
into making the payment and therefore meant the section 75 claim should have been 
successful. The investigator recommended that Creation rework the credit card account as 
though the £550 in payments had not been made, adding compensatory interest if this 
resulted in a credit balance.
Creation disagreed with the investigator. It said that firstly, Mrs A had a responsibility to read 
what she was signing before she signed it. What she had signed said she was buying 
photos, nothing else. It went on to say that the emails sent by G before Mrs A and Ds 
photoshoot were non-committal and didnt suggest they would be promising anything more 
than a photoshoot. Creation said it thought it was possible G had offered some kind of 
modelling package which involved more than just photos, but it noted that Mrs A said she 
had been quoted a price of between £2,500 and £3,500 for this and paid only £550. It said it 
thought it was more likely Mrs A hadnt been able to afford the modelling package and had 
opted just to buy the photos instead.
Creation asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The foundation of Mrs As dispute over the payments totalling £550 that she made, is that 
she was misled by G about the nature of the product she was purchasing. She says she was 
told verbally it was a package of services which included managing her daughter and getting 
her paid work in the modelling industry. What she actually received was some photos on a 
USB stick and silence from G when she expressed her dissatisfaction with the situation. 
Ive carefully considered what responsibilities Creation may have had to Mrs A in respect of 
the disputed transactions.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services using a credit 
card a certain degree of protection, so long as certain technical criteria are met. If the criteria 
are met then the consumer can bring a claim against their credit card company for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the supplier of the goods or services.
Creation, in its initial submissions to this service, suggested the technical criteria for a 
section 75 claim had not been met. Specifically, it said Mrs A had dealt with G but paid 
separate companies with her credit card. One of the technical criteria is the requirement for 
there to be what is known as a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. What this 
means in practice, and put in very simple terms, is that Mrs A needs to have paid the 
company she has a dispute with on her credit card. Creation suggested this wasnt the case, 
but our investigator noted that G was a trading name and the company Mrs A had made her 
£500 payment to was the actual name of the registered company which traded as G. In other 
words, the company Mrs A paid was in fact G. Creation hasnt sought to challenge this 
conclusion, and I think our investigator was correct to make it. Ultimately I think the technical 
criteria are in place for a section 75 claim to be made, but there still needs to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract for Mrs A to be able to hold Creation liable for what 
has happened.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which causes a person to do something 
which is to their disadvantage. For example, it could cause them to sign a contract, or make 
a payment, which they wouldnt have otherwise. Our investigator sent a detailed assessment 
to both parties explaining why she thought a misrepresentation had probably taken place 
and Mrs A had been promised much more by G than had been included in writing on the contract which had been signed. I think I could summarise her findings as follows:
The scenario which had unfolded was a well-known scam which Action Fraud warns 
about on its website.
There was ample evidence of other consumer complaints about G having verbally 
promised modelling packages and not provided them.
Mrs A had given detailed testimony of what had happened, and her actions were 
consistent from a very early stage of someone who had been told things which they 
had discovered were untrue.
Although it was true Mrs A had signed a contract which didnt refer to a modelling 
package, this document did refer to an agency list and in any event verbal 
representations made by G shouldnt be ignored in favour of the written contract, 
especially if the written contract had been signed under pressure.
I agree with all the points made by the investigator. Mrs As testimony has been detailed and 
 apart from some minor details  consistent, and she seems to have a clear recollection of 
what she was told. I dont find this surprising, as she appears to have complained to both G 
and Creation within 24 hours of making the £500 payment, when things would have been 
fresh in her mind. 
As our investigator noted, there are consumer warnings against operations which bear a 
resemblance to the one run by G. These warnings have been made by ActionFraud, national 
newspapers and consumer rights groups. The volume and type of complaints I was able to 
find online about G suggests to me that the company is likely to have operated in this way, 
representing that it would manage aspiring models and find them work in exchange for a fee, 
and then fail to do so.
I appreciate Creations point that what Mrs A signed doesnt reflect what she says she was 
told, and that it is possible that she simply couldnt afford the modelling package and agreed 
only to buy the photos. But I think that places excessive weight on the written contract and 
too little on what is known about the general trading practices of companies like G, and 
Mrs As detailed and consistent testimony that G made representations to her that it would 
manage her daughter and obtain modelling work for her. Mrs A has explained that G agreed 
to reduce their price when she explained how difficult her financial circumstances were at the 
time, so I think its plausible the £550 paid could have been for more than photos.
The contract is of course important, but I accept Mrs As account of events that she was put 
under pressure, and in such circumstances I dont necessarily agree that she should have 
been expected to notice the discrepancies between what she was told verbally, and what 
she was being asked to sign, until she was in an unpressured environment. As our 
investigator said, the contract did refer to an agency list, next to which a box which said 
Yes was circled. Elsewhere on the document was stamped the words agency list for self-
promotion, but it isnt clear what either of these things mean and I wouldnt have expected 
Mrs A to have questioned it in the circumstances.
In the end I think it is more likely than not that G told Mrs A it would manage her daughters 
modelling career for 12 months and obtain her regular paid work, and she signed up with the 
company on that basis. I dont think she would have signed up and paid had she believed 
she was receiving only photos. The question I now have to answer is whether this was a 
misrepresentation, or a breach of a verbal promise which had contractual force. The scam 
warnings to consumers, and Gs actions after Mrs A complained (essentially, to not engage 
with her at all or explain that she had  for example  only purchased some photos), indicate to me that it is likely G had no intention of managing Mrs As daughters modelling career or 
to obtain modelling work for her. This means that I think Gs statements amount to 
misrepresentations, not contractual promises. This means Mrs A should be put in the 
position she would have been in, had the misrepresentations not been made.
As I conclude Mrs A made her payments to G on the basis of Gs misrepresentations, I think 
Creation should have accepted Mrs As section 75 claim rather than turned it down. So to 
put things right I will be directing Creation to put Mrs A in the position shed been in, had it 
correctly accepted her claim. I will note here that Mrs A made her £50 deposit payment 
before any misrepresentations had been made, so ordinarily I could not say she should 
receive a refund of this. However, I can see G said in an email that it would refund the £50 
deposit should Mrs A and her daughter attend the photoshoot, and it seems this money 
ended up being put towards the £550 price of the package Mrs A purchased. Had 
misrepresentations not been made I think Mrs A would have asked for  and been entitled to 
 a refund of the deposit. So I think this should be refunded too.
Our investigator also explored the possibility of a chargeback, which is another way Creation 
could have explored to obtain a refund for Mrs A. Because I have already found that 
Creation should have accepted Mrs As section 75 claim, I dont need to make any findings 
about whether it should also have attempted a chargeback.
Putting things right
Had G not made misrepresentations to Mrs A, she would not have the payments that she 
did. I think it is therefore fair that Creation rework her credit card account as though the £50 
and £500 transactions in dispute had not been made. If this results in a credit balance 
having arisen on the account at any point, 8% simple interest* per year should be added to 
this credit balance from the date it would have arisen to the date the account is reworked. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to take the actions set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires that tax is paid on this interest. Creation Financial 
Services Limited should give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, if 
Mrs A asks for one.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman