DRN-4497678
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) following a breakdown and a claim made against his roadside assistance 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr T says, following a breakdown, he called Admiral to claim under his policy. Mr T says a 
tow truck arrived after two hours but couldnt accommodate a child seat despite Mr T having 
already explained he had his children with him. Mr T says, because of this the tow truck only 
took them to the nearest service station and arrangements were made for another tow truck 
to take them to their preferred garage. Mr T says he was made to wait another 10 hours for 
another tow truck, so he and his family had to sleep overnight in the car. Mr T complained 
about these points and said he has overnight accommodation covered under his policy, so 
this shouldve been arranged for him and his family. Mr T said his policy also covers 
reimbursement of any costs he has incurred in collecting his car from the garage after 
repairs. Mr T said he incurred such expense, but this hasnt been reimbursed. 
Admiral responded and upheld Mr Ts complaint about the original recovery vehicle not 
being suitable to transport him and his family and the delay in recovering them. Admiral 
apologised for the service received and sent a cheque for £100 compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He upheld the complaint and recommended 
Admiral increase their offer of compensation from £100 to £250. He also recommended they 
reimburse the expenses incurred by Mr T in collecting his car. Mr T agreed, but Admiral 
havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr T. The key facts about the 
complaint arent in dispute. Admiral have admitted they got things wrong by sending an 
unsuitable recovery vehicle initially and also taking too long to recover Mr T and his family. 
The only issue I have to decide is whether Admirals offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable.
I think its right that Admiral should compensate Mr T for the distress, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by Admiral and what the impact of those 
errors have been. I will also add, while I can see this event has been distressing for Mr T and 
his family, our service is only able to award compensation for any distress, frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr T as he, being the policyholder, is the eligible complainant. That said, I 
have taken into account the additional distress and frustration caused to Mr T knowing that 
his family were also with him and being inconvenienced by Admirals errors. 
Ill start by saying, I dont believe the £100 offered by Admiral goes far enough to reflect the 
full impact on Mr T. I say this because Admiral describe their delay as excessive, and this 
delay meant Mr T and his family were first left at a service station and then left to sleep in 
their car overnight. Mr T describes the event as traumatic  and I think thats a reasonable 
term to use given the distress to him of spending the night  including his two young children 
- in the car on a cold night and without blankets. I can see Mr Ts policy covers him for 
emergency overnight accommodation, up to £150 per person and £600 in total. I cant see 
this was offered to Mr T, and I also havent been provided any information from Admiral to 
show why this cover wouldnt have applied to Mr Ts breakdown circumstances. So, its clear 
theres additional frustration to Mr T of knowing this shouldve been offered to him - but 
wasnt. 
I can see Mr T says there was him, his wife and two children so he believes Admiral should 
pay him the £600 overnight accommodation limit provided under the policy. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Ts point here, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay 
this. I say this because, while I accept theres cover for overnight accommodation, Mr T 
hasnt incurred any financial loss as a result of not being offered this. For example, had Mr T 
decided to pay for overnight accommodation himself, and Admiral refused to cover this, if 
our service felt Admirals decision was unfair, we could direct them to reimburse this to Mr T 
as the policy provides cover for overnight accommodation. But in this case, Mr T didnt incur 
any accommodation expenses so, even though the policy provides cover for this, I cant 
fairly ask Admiral to pay this if Mr T hasnt incurred any financial loss. I have though, as 
mentioned above, considered the frustration to Mr T of not being offered the overnight 
accommodation in my assessment of a fair level of compensation. 
Our service would generally award £100 in cases where there has been a one-off incident or 
occurrence  such as a small administrative error or a short delay. But in this case, and as 
mentioned above, Admiral describe their delay as excessive and I can see the impact on  
Mr T goes beyond just minor trouble and inconvenience. So, taking into account the full 
impact on Mr T, I think Admiral should increase their offer of £100 by £150, bringing the total 
compensation to £250. 
I can see Mr T has provided a receipt for £114.90 which Mr T says represents the taxi cost 
for his journey from his home to collect his car  which he says should be covered by 
Admiral. I can see our investigator has forwarded this receipt to Admiral. Ive reviewed Mr 
Ts breakdown policy booklet, and this says, We will also pay up to £150 towards the 
reasonable cost of alternative transport for an insured person to return and collect the 
repaired vehicle. Ive also seen a note from Admirals system which shows Mr T called them 
to check the position about this cost being reimbursed. The note says the call handler 
checked with a manager and they confirmed Mr T does have this cover under his policy and 
if Mr T pays for this and then calls back then a call handler can complete a form in order to 
process a refund. 
So, given this is a cost which Mr Ts policy covers, and Admiral do appear to have already 
confirmed theyll process a refund, I think its fair for Admiral to reimburse Mr T the travel 
costs of £114.90 he has paid to collect his car.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral have made errors in their handling of Mr Ts claim. So, in 
addition to the £100 already offered, they should increase their offer by an additional £150 for the distress, frustration and inconvenience caused  bringing the total compensation for 
this complaint to £250. Admiral should also reimburse Mr T the transport costs of £114.90. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman