DRN-3016207
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with a 
cash refund, after they cancelled their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 21 January 2020 Mr and Mrs M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided cover for Mr 
and Mrs Ms trip, including post-departure cover, with them due to go on holiday from 11 
April 2020 to 24 April 2020. The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for the policy was £589.74. 
And the policy also included cover for 12 medical conditions Mr and Mrs M declared.
Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes a few times before letting it know on 28 April 2020 that 
their holiday hadnt gone ahead, and they had received a full refund for their holiday from 
their travel provider. And so, they wouldnt have needed the travel insurance policy. They 
asked Great Lakes to reimburse them for the premium they had paid.
Great Lakes didnt agree to reimburse the premium paid. It explained that the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy said that no refund would be provided if a policy was 
cancelled after the 14-day cooling-off period. So, under the policy no refund of premium was 
actually due to Mr and Mrs M. It also said that Mrs H had benefitted from cover under their 
policy from 21 January 2020, when the policy was purchased. 
But Great Lakes went on to say it did understand these are uncertain times and that it had 
been working to go above and beyond the terms and conditions of this policy. With this in 
mind, it said had been providing the following options;
The opportunity to move single trip dates to within 18 months of the policys original 
purchase date, compared to the usual 13, which is free to its customers to provide 
reassurance of cover. It said this was providing the duration and destination for the 
holiday remained the dame, and the original policy dates hadnt already expired. It 
said that if a different duration or destination was chosen, an additional premium may 
be charged.
A pro-rata credit voucher, for the unused part of their travel insurance policy. This 
voucher would need to be used to purchase a new policy and would be valid for 36 
months. 
Great Lakes went on to say that because it was contacted in writing after the date Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy had expired, it would be willing to offer a 20% base price discount to them for 
any future policy Mr and Mrs M were to take with Great Lakes over the next three years.
Mr and Mrs M didnt feel this was fair. So, they referred their complaint to this service, for an 
independent review.
Our investigator looked at the evidence provided to them and could see that Mr and Mrs Ms 
holiday was cancelled on 10 April 2020, by the holiday provider (so before the policy 
expired). With that in mind the investigator contacted Great Lakes and asked it to reconsider 
the offer it had made.
Great Lakes replied and said it would be willing to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata 
credit voucher, with a value of £93.12 attached to it. This figure being based on a pro-rata 
refund of the premium paid, from the date Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled, until the 
date the policy was due to end, on 24 April 2020.
Our investigator then reviewed all of the information provided to them and came to their 
opinion on the matter.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 21 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr and Mrs 
Ms was due to embark on was cancelled, on 10 April 2020.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium when Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled, until the end 
date of the policy on 10 April 2020.
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months. It could be used 
for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M could also transfer 
this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if they would rather do this. And our 
investigator considered this fair.
Mr and Mrs Ms response
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They explained that;
They had paid a large sum of money for their travel insurance policy, and they hadnt 
been able go on holiday (and therefore use the policy) through no fault of their own.
A cash refund should be provided, given potential increases in the cost of insurance 
for the next time they took out a policy, and that with their health travelling may not 
be possible in the future.
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion, this complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im upholding this complaint in part  because since coming to this service Great Lakes has 
altered the offer it is providing to Mr and Mrs M. And I do consider its offer of a pro-rata 
refund in the form of a voucher to be fair. So, Im satisfied it should provide Mr and Mrs M 
with this. But I dont require it to do anything more than that.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs M.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M 
contacted Great Lakes to discuss and seek reimbursement of their policy. But I dont think 
Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for trying to retrospectively cancel the policy and seek 
reimbursement reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. And, I have to bear in mind that the 
holiday didnt fail to go ahead because of these circumstances  but rather because of the 
pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro-rata credit voucher is now fair.
Mr and Mrs M were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they needed to make (and was covered under the policy). And the premium they paid 
included this cover. As Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im 
satisfied its reasonable that Mr and Mrs M pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to seek reimbursement of their policy, because they 
explained their holiday had been cancelled, and they hadnt needed the post-departure 
cover. Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from 10 April 2020, and this was an 
unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, from 
the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium 
when it knows there was nothing left to cover at that point.  
Given this, I think a voucher for the time left on the policy after the holiday was cancelled 
(from 10 April 2020 to 24 April 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the 
circumstances of this case. I understand Mr and Mrs M feel the refund give to them should 
be paid in cash. But I dont agree. Given that under the industry rules, and under the policy, 
Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be entitled to a refund of premium, I think the offer of a pro-rata credit 
voucher is a fair and reasonable offer given the situation. 
I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has now offered Mr and Mrs M are 
unreasonably restrictive. It does provide Mr and Mrs M with a number of options, including 
the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone 
else. And it allows Mr and Mrs M cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than 
originally planned. I also have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs M were happy to travel 
despite their medical conditions initially, and nothing has changed in their circumstances. 
The voucher amount is calculated from the date Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled on 
10 April 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, on 24 April 2020. This takes into 
account that there would have been 15 days where Great Lakes werent on risk - which 
equates to £93.12 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes would not 
have been on risk for the 15 days after the holiday was cancelled, I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs M differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. And so, Im satisfied its offer is fair.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata credit voucher for £93.12, 
based on the terms and conditions of the voucher being as detailed in my decision above. I 
dont require Great Lakes to do anything more than this.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman