DRN-4495841
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss B and Mr F used to hold with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They repaid it in September 2022, incurring early repayment 
charges (ERCs) because they were in fixed interest rate products at the time. They then 
applied for a new mortgage with the aim of completing their purchase within 90 days. 
This would have allowed them to port the interest rate products from the old mortgage to the 
new one, thus qualifying for a refund of the ERC. However, they complain that Barclays took 
so long to issue the new mortgage offer that they didnt have enough time to complete the 
purchase within 90 days. Miss B and Mr F are seeking a refund of the ERCs.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss B and Mr F and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss B and Mr F being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Im to find in Miss B and Mr Fs favour, I have to be satisfied of two things:
that there were specific errors and omissions on Barclays part in how it handled 
the mortgage application that unduly delayed the mortgage offer being issued; and 
that the delays resulting from such errors and omissions are the sole or primary 
reason Miss B and Mr F didnt complete their purchase within the 90-day window 
that would qualify them for a refund of the ERC. 
The latter is not entirely a binary question. Ultimately, the test I have to apply is this: 
notwithstanding other factors, but for any shortcomings there may have been on Barclays 
part, is it more likely than not that Miss B and Mr F would have completed their new home 
purchase within 90 days of repaying their previous mortgage?
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that was the case, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, Im not either.
The starting point here is that that under the terms of the interest rate products that applied 
to different sections of the existing mortgage, Miss B and Mr F would be liable to pay the 
ERCs if they redeemed that mortgage before 30 April 2023 and 31 July 2023 respectively. 
Its reasonable to conclude that they knew that when they took the decision to sell and look 
for a new home.
Miss B and Mr F have said 90 days isnt enough time to complete a house purchase, 
especially when Christmas and New Year holidays are taken into account. But the 90-day 
window was part of their existing mortgage contract, and they chose the time of year to seek 
to move house.
Miss B and Mr F have told us the deadline Barclays gave them for completing on the new 
mortgage in order to qualify for a refund of the ERCs was 23 January 2023. The new 
mortgage offer was valid until 28 April 2023, so Ive inferred from this that 23 January 2023 
was when the 90-day window for porting the interest rate products from the old mortgage ran 
out. So they will have known, or ought reasonably to have known, that was the deadline 
when they started the transaction in October 2022.
Arranging a mortgage isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. There may be 
anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but occasionally things take 
longer than expected. Also, queries and issues might arise that couldnt have been predicted 
at the outset, and which either delay the application or take it in an unexpected direction. 
Here, Barclays has said that it could identify a 19-day period during which it didnt progress 
the case as quickly as it could have done, and for that it has offered them £200 
compensation. Ill come back to that shortly, but in the meantime, Barclays has also pointed 
to periods where Miss B and Mr F might have responded more quickly to requests it made 
for information to help it assess affordability before making the decision to lend. 
Its arguable that this information wasnt strictly necessary, and that Barclays could have 
made its lending decision without assessing affordability. The rules of mortgage regulation 
allow it to do that in certain situations, and Miss B and Mrs Fs application looks to be one of 
those where that was the case. But I dont think this is what the outcome of the complaint 
turns on. Ill explain why.
Even allowing for the shortcomings Ive identified above, Barclays issued a new mortgage 
offer on 6 December 2022; thats 48 days after the application started. In itself, thats not an 
excessively long time in which to approve a mortgage and issue an offer. And even if it could 
have been done sooner still, for the reasons I outlined earlier, there were still 46 days left for 
the other elements of the purchase transaction, all of which were entirely outside Barclays 
control, to fall into place. 
All of those elements will have been running alongside the mortgage application from the 
outset, and could continue to progress after the offer had been issued, even allowing for the 
Christmas and New Year period. Id reiterate the point I made earlier that Miss B and Mr F 
chose when to begin the transaction, and so could have anticipated the potential impact of 
the holiday period.Whats missing from the evidence from Miss B and Mr F is any context as to the timing of 
their purchase being aborted, or the reason behind it. Without that, Im not in a position to 
attribute the failure to complete in time to qualify for a refund of the ERCs solely or even 
primarily to any shortcomings on Barclays part. The transaction might have fallen through 
for reasons entirely unconnected to how long Barclays took to issue the offer, and I cant 
avoid the conclusion that it could just as likely have been aborted if the offer had been made 
sooner. 
The fact remains that, notwithstanding the delay by the bank, by 6 December 2022 Barclays 
had done what it needed to do  issue a mortgage offer. If the mortgage offer was the only 
thing holding up the transaction, then at that point contracts could have been exchanged and 
the purchase could have been completed before 23 January 2023. But the fact that the 
transaction subsequently fell through suggests that the reason for this is unrelated to the 
timing of the mortgage offer.
In the circumstances, there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
order Barclays to reimburse the ERC.
For the delay that Barclays identified and owned up to in its final response, I consider £200 
compensation was a fair and reasonable offer, given the absence of anything to persuade 
me that this materially changed the eventual outcome.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Miss B and Mr F feel. Thats a natural, subjective 
reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be settled by Barclays Bank UK PLC paying 
Miss B and Mr F £200. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman