DRN-3245429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited)have not offered 
an adequate settlement for a claim they made under their contents insurance policy. Theyre 
also unhappy with the level of service provided and say there have been delays. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a contents insurance policy with Accredited in October 2020.
Mr and Mrs F were having some work completed on their house in April 2021. In order for 
the work to be completed their television (TV) needed to be taken off the wall. While the 
work was being done, the TV screen was damaged.
Mr and Mrs F made a claim to Accredited in April 2021 for accidental damage. Accredited 
arranged for one of its delegated engineers to assess the claim and the damage to the TV. It 
concluded that the claim should be accepted in line with the policy. Unfortunately, the part 
that was required to fix the TV wasnt available, so it was deemed damaged beyond repair. 
The same TV also was no longer available, so Accredited offered two alternative 
settlements. These were:
£749 voucher for an electrical store or;
Cash settlement of £574.10 (£674.10  excess of £100)
Mr and Mrs F declined both offers. They said that the settlements didnt enable them to get a 
like for like TV. They explained that there was a particular TV they had in mind which was a 
like for like, especially regarding picture quality.
Accredited did not change its mind, so Mr and Mrs F brought the complaint to this service. 
Accredited also didnt think it had caused any delays in handling the claim.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed that the settlement offers put 
forward by Accredited were in line with the policy and were a fair resolution. They also didnt 
think Accredited had caused delays or provided poor customer service. 
Mr and Mrs F continued to disagree and said that the TV they wanted was more of a like for 
like. In the end they brought the TV they wanted and asked if Accredited would increase its 
cash settlement to £1000. Accredited disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
I dont need to comment on whether the claim shouldve been upheld or not, because 
Accredited has accepted that the claim for accidental damage to the TV is valid. What Ive 
considered is whether the settlement offered by Accredited is a fair one.
The policy wording that is relevant in this case says Accredited should cover:
- the cost of replacement or;
- the cost of repairs for those items which can be economically repaired.
Accredited has accepted the claim and made two alternative settlements which I think are in 
line with the wording above. 
I understand Mr and Mrs F say that there is a particular type of TV that they would prefer, 
that offers high resolution visuals (which is one of the reasons they had their previous TV). 
But as the policy wording says, Accredited only needs to offer the cost of replacing the TV 
they had or the cost of repairing the TV. As the TV cannot be repaired Accredited has 
offered two different cash settlements so they can replace the TV for a like for like. 
The TV that was damaged was over 10 years old  so is no longer available. Accredited is 
required to offer a cash settlement that allows Mr and Mrs F to get a new TV which is of a 
similar specification to the TV they previously had. Accredited has explained why theyve 
offered the two settlements and shown evidence of the cost of TVs that are of a similar 
specification. The TV that Mr and Mrs F would like is substantially more expensive and has a 
much higher specification, which means theyd be in an advantageous position  not a like 
for like position. Because of this I think the settlement Accredited has offered is fair and it 
doesnt need to anything more.
I understand Mr and Mrs F have now said theyd be willing to accept £1000 in settlement of 
the complaint. But as Ive explained, I think Accredited has acted in line with policy and 
already offered a fair settlement. So, as a result I dont think Accredited needs to increase its 
offer.
Ive reviewed the level of service provided by Accredited, in particular the length of time its 
taken for them to deal with the claim. Im satisfied it dealt with Mr and Mrs Fs claim as it 
shouldve done and within a reasonable timeframe.
My final decision
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited has already put forward a settlement that I think is 
fair and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
If they choose to accept it, they should let Accredited know which settlement (voucher or 
cash) they would prefer.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman