DRN-3444168
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) granted an overdraft which was for 
more than his part time earnings. Mr C has explained he has dyslexia and so he wasnt sure 
what he was agreeing to and thought it was a loan. 
Mr C is being assisted in his complaint by his father  who Ill refer to as Mr C2. 
Mr C2 also said that he opened the bank account for Mr C  when he was 15. Mrs C2 says 
at the time he made it clear that an overdraft shouldnt be given to Mr C. 
Overall, Mr C2 says Mr C was put into a vulnerable position and he didnt understand the 
financial burden he was putting on himself. In order to resolve the complaint Mr C2 has 
asked for a refund of the fees and charges applied. 
What happened
Lloyds provided Mr C with an overdraft. The limit was increased on a number of occasions in 
November 2020. Below, Ive included the dates and the new limit that was given on those 
date. 
21 November 2020 - £350
22 November 2020 - £450
30 November 2020 - £650 
30 November 2020 - £790
By the end of January 2021, Mr C2 was aware of the overdraft that had been granted and 
raised a complaint with Lloyds on Mr Cs behalf. Mr C2 says he put funds into the account in 
order to repay the overdrawn balance. Mr C2 says that at this point he also spoke to Mr C 
about not applying for overdrafts in future. 
Mr C2 also raised a complaint with Lloyds about the overdraft on 29 January 2021. 
 
Lloyds wrote to Mr C, following the complaint and explained that the terms and conditions 
had been explained to him so the charges had been applied correctly. It also said;
I appreciate your father did explain that now youre aware of the impact of the 
arranged overdraft you wont (sic) apply again however, to support you I can apply a 
flag that will prevent any further applications going through for 12 months, if you 
would like to me add this please let me know.
After this response, Lloyds says there is no record of either Mr C or Mr C2 requesting this 
flag to be applied to the account. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Lloyds had told us. And she thought
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly in relation to providing the 
overdraft because it looked affordable for him. 
In addition, she could see that Mr C had made a further overdraft application in April 2021 
which was, after a call with Lloyds, declined. She thought this showed Lloyds had taken 
Mr Cs circumstances into account. So, she didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr C2 didnt agree with the proposed outcome and he provide a copy of a new summary 
resolution letter that Lloyds had recently sent to Mr C in July 2021  following further 
overdrafts being approved for Mr C. Overall, Mr C2 said;
Ultimately the fact remains, my son should not have been given an overdraft facility 
from the initial accent (sic) set up and from the previous confirmation, by Lloyds that 
they would not approve an overdraft for 12 months.
The adjudicator then went back to Lloyds to ask for some further information about the flag 
that could be applied to the account as was mentioned in the final response letter. Lloyds 
confirmed;
A strict flag was applied to the account which would expire in May 2022.
But there was no record of Mr C or Mr C2 asking for a flag to be applied to the 
account after the final response letter issued in February 2021.  
It confirmed that in April 2021 Mr C had applied for an overdraft online but was asked 
to call the lending decision team. Following this call the request for an overdraft at 
the time was declined. 
Lloyds provided further information about a new overdraft which was approved in 
June 2021. 
A different adjudicator then issued a second view to Mr C and she also concluded the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, for much the same reasons as the first adjudicator. In 
addition though she also said;
There was no evidence of Mr C2 asking for Mr C not to be given an overdraft when 
the account was opened for Mr C. 
As the account was in Mr Cs sole name and Mr C2 wasnt a named party to the 
account than instructions couldnt be received from him. 
Mr C2 didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr C
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or theamount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds says it agreed to Mr Cs overdraft application and his limit increases after it
obtained information on his income and expenditure through the online application. Whereas 
Mr C2 says Mr C didnt really understand what he was signing up to and the final overdraft 
limit granted by Lloyds was more than Mr Cs part time earnings.  Ive carefully thought about 
what Mr C, Mr C2 and Lloyds have said.
I will start by setting out what I am and am not looking at as part of this complaint. Mr Cs 
initial complaint concerned the November 2020 overdraft increases and what Mr C2 has 
explained about the consequences and how Mr C was put into a vulnerable situation 
following Lloydss actions. It is this complaint that I am considering I am not considering 
anything to do with the later overdraft approvals in June 2021.  
Therefore, the further overdraft increases that were granted in June 2021 and which appear 
to have been covered off as part of a summary resolution letter issued by Lloyds in July 
2021 will not be considered in this decision. 
Firstly, these events occurred after the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and these are new issues that would require a new and full investigation to establish 
the facts around what happened at each application and what Lloyds was aware off in 
relation to a strict lending flag (which was mentioned in the first final response letter). So I 
say no more about it.
As part of the November 2020 overdraft applications it seems Lloyds asked Mr C for details 
of his income and expenditure.  For each application (and increase) Mr C declared that he 
had an income of around £1,000 per month. He also told Lloyds that his outgoings were 
about £300 per month. Based on this information, Lloyds wouldve been confident that Mr C 
could afford to manage an overdraft facility with a limit of up to £790. 
However, Im mindful that Mr C appears to have made a number of applications and 
received a number of increases in quite a short period of time, indeed his limit was increased 
twice on one day. This ought to have prompted Lloyds to take a closer look at Mr Cs 
situation before approving the overdraft increases.
That said, having looked through Mr Cs statements, in the lead up to the overdraft limit 
increases being provided, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this period of 
time. In particular, there wasnt anything in Mr Cs account transactions prior to the increases 
which contradicted what Mr C had declared during his applications. If anything, his 
statements supported him having the disposable income to repay what he was being lent 
within a reasonable period of time.
Mr C2 says the final overdraft limit was more than his part time earnings and so shouldnt 
have been given. Lloyds has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copies of 
Mr Cs bank statements. Ive reviewed these in the months leading up to November 2020. 
But, looking at the statements Mr Cs income did fluctuate  for example Mr C earned just 
over £900 in October 2020 but over £1,000 in both August and September 2020. 
So, I dont think it as unreasonable for Lloyds to have thought the information contained 
within the overdraft application wasnt up-to-date or accurate. There also isnt anything else 
from the bank statements Ive seen to have believed that the information Mr C declared in 
his overdraft application wasnt accurate or in any way made the overdraft unaffordable.   I understand that Mr C applied for a further overdraft in April 2021, and Lloyds have given us 
some information about this, as far as I can tell Mr C applied for a further overdraft and was 
asked to call Lloyds to discuss the application. 
Following this call Lloyds declined the overdraft application. So, like the adjudicator I would 
agree that this does appear to show that Lloyds processes worked at this time in as much 
as it wanted further information from him before approving any new facility. It is also possible 
and likely that Lloyds being aware of Mr C2s complaint may have played a part in the 
declined application. But whatever the reason, no further overdraft was approved at this 
time. 
Overall, I dont think it was wrong of Lloyds to have provide Mr C with an overdraft in 
November 2020. However, Mr C2 has also said, that due to Mr Cs dyslexia Lloyds put him 
in a difficult position as he didnt understand what he was agreeing to. 
Firstly, Ive seen nothing in the account notes to suggest that Mr C2 told Lloyds that an 
overdraft shouldnt have been given to him when the account was initially approved. 
However, even if Mr C2 did tell Lloyds this at the time it wouldnt change my mind about the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Even if I accepted Mr C2 did tell Lloyds not to grant an overdraft when the account was 
opened, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Lloyds to continue with adhering to a 
request initially made when Mr C was a minor, indefinitely. This is especially as Mr C was in 
employment as an adult and there was no other record of Mr C providing authority to Mr C2 
to manage his affairs and/or any other markers to indicate that he may have been any other 
concerns, or anything else for Lloyds to consider before lending. 
Ultimately, I am satisfied that Lloyds was only told about Mr Cs dyslexia in January 2021, 
where I can see a note being added to Mr Cs file. Before that date, as there is nothing to 
suggest that Lloyds was on notice of any additional support or guidance which Mr C may 
have needed. I cant say, in those circumstances that Lloyds acted unfairly. 
Lloyds final response letter explains that a strict flag could be placed on the account but only 
if Mr C asked for it. Based on the notes that Ive seen I cant see that this action was ever 
asked for. Therefore, it is possible, given what Lloyds has said that no flag was applied as no 
request for it was made. 
There are other options available to Mr C should he wish Mr C2 to assist with the 
management of the account. He could seek some guidance about a Power of Attorney but 
that may (or may not) be applicable to the situation. I appreciate this process may not be 
applicable but allowing a third party access to Mr Cs account is a big step so it is reasonable 
that Lloyds has systems and processes in place to make sure that everything is in order 
before allowing access. 
Or, Mr C may wish to speak to Lloyds to see whether there are any other more suitable 
accounts for him, which he wouldnt be able to have an overdraft or any other type of 
borrowing on. 
I appreciate both Mr C and Mr C2 will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope my 
explanation has provide helpful for them both to understand why, in this case, Im not 
upholding the complaint about the overdraft (and the increases) in November 2019. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about his overdraft 
applications in November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman