DRN-4027402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that when they remortgaged their Buy To Let (BTL) property with 
Belmont Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans (Vida) it delayed the new 
mortgage so it could charge more. Mr S also complained about how Vida treated him.
What happened
Mr S told us he and Mrs S own a number of BTL properties. This complaint concerns just 
one of these, which Mr S tried to remortgage with Vida, in August 2022. Whilst this complaint 
is brought by both Mr and Mrs S, as the mortgage is in both their names, our dealings have 
been with Mr S. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr S told us the fixed rate on this mortgage was expiring on 16 August 2022, but although 
Vida claimed to have written to him on 2 May and 1 August 2022 about this, he hadnt got 
either of these letters. He said he only found out about the expiry when he asked. 
Mr S said he was told he could apply to remortgage online himself, if he wanted to. Mr S said 
he logged on to the portal, and tried to remortgage on 15 August. But he told Vida the portal 
wasnt working. He asked his broker to help, but he wasnt able to assist Mr S, as Mr S had 
already started an application. Vidas system wont allow two applications at the same time. 
Mr S did manage to make the product transfer on 18 August. But then he was very upset 
that this wouldnt take effect until the start of October. He said a product transfer like this 
should only take a few days, or a week at the most. And in the meantime, he was left paying 
the lenders standard variable rate (SVR) which meant monthly payments of considerably 
more than those under his old fixed rate. Mr S wanted Vida to pay back the extra money 
hed paid, which he said was £874.22. Mr S said this was a scam, hed been cheated, and it 
was causing him financial hardship. He said the Vida portal often didnt work. 
Vida said it had written to Mr S about the rate change on 2 May 2022. It showed us the letter 
it sent, saying his fixed interest rate would end on 16 August. And it said it wrote to him 
again on 1 August. That letter tells Mr S what the new interest rate will be, from 17 August.
Visa told us Mr S had said hed tried to switch rates online, using the portal on 10 August, 
but the portal wasnt working. He had told Vida hed tried again on 15 August, after it spoke 
to him on the phone. He hadnt received any confirmation of the switch, and thought this was 
a problem with Vidas portal too. 
Vida said Mr S then managed to complete the switch on18 August, and did get confirmation, 
but complained about how long it would be before this switch took effect, meaning hed be 
asked to pay much more for Septembers mortgage payment. Vida said Mr S had also 
alleged that one of its agents was racist to him on a call he made to complain about this. 
Vida felt it had given Mr S sufficient warning of the upcoming change in interest rates, by 
writing to him in May and August. It said the second letter it sent to Mr S about the upcoming 
increase in his mortgage payments did tell him how to switch to a new fixed interest rate, if 
he wanted to do that. Vida said it could see that Mr S had accessed the product switch portal 
on 15 August, but hadnt competed the process, because no offer letter was generated.
Vida said it had checked, and there were no problems with customers accessing the portal 
on either 10 or 15 August, the two days Mr S said hed tried unsuccessfully to switch. Vida 
said it wouldnt have expected Mr Ss broker to be able to help him, after Mr S had started an 
application. Only one live application can be made at a time.
Vida said when Mr S got confirmation of the new rate, that documentation explained the rate 
wouldnt take effect until 1 October 2022. Mr S hadnt paid the right amount for September, 
and Vida wanted Mr S to get in touch about the shortfall. 
Vida said it had listened to the call Mr S had with an agent on 18 August. Vida said it noted 
Mr S was upset by the information provided to him, but it said it couldnt agree the agent was 
racist, or provided him with incorrect information about the switch. It said the service 
provided to Mr S had fallen short, because it would have expected Mr S to be offered a call 
back by a manager during this call. It offered Mr S £50 to say sorry for that, which it pointed 
out he had accepted, in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Vida had written to 
Mr S on the two dates it claimed. He said the letters were correctly addressed, so he didnt 
know why they hadnt arrived. But he noted Mr S had also spoken to Vida at the start of 
August, so was aware of when the fixed rate was going to expire. 
Our investigator said Mr S had tried to agree a new deal on 10 and 15 August 2022. Our 
investigator thought that the portal was working on these days. And he said Vida had 
explained that Mr Ss broker wouldnt be able to help him with the application, as he already 
had one application in progress. Our investigator said emails from Mr Ss broker supported 
what Vida had said about this. 
Our investigator said, whilst he could understand Mr S would want the first payment under 
his new fixed rate to be for September, Vida has shown us that all its product switches occur 
on the first of the month. And any change to a new product takes ten working days. So Mr S 
would have had to switch on or before 17 August, if he wanted his new rate to start in 
September. He didnt switch until 18 August. Our investigator sympathised with the 
increased cost Mr S incurred but he couldnt say Vida caused delays or made any errors.
Our investigator said hed listened to the call on 18 August. Whilst he didnt think the adviser 
said anything wrong, he did think she was quick to dismiss any further help via a manager 
when Mr S asked for this. Vida had acknowledged this with an offer of £50 compensation. 
Our investigator said this was a fair and reasonable offer to resolve the service element of 
this complaint.
Mr S replied to disagree. He felt our investigator had sided with Vida. He wanted someone 
else to look into his complaint. 
Mr S said this wasnt his first time dealing with mortgage product transfers and he hadnt 
known any previous lenders to take two months to carry out a product transfer. He said it 
should take one to two weeks maximum, but our service was trying to convince him it was 
normal for Vida to take two months, and charge him an exorbitant rate in between. Mr S said 
that was immoral and unfair, and it was destroying his business.
This complaint was then passed to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr S has complained about the service he received from our investigator, but I understand 
he has received a separate response from our service on that. And it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to comment on that here. This decision deals only with Mr Ss complaint against Vida.
I have asked Vida further questions about its online portal, and any issues which might have 
been experienced by other customers around the times Mr S said he tried to switch his rate. 
Im satisfied that the portal wasnt down at these times. I also note that a call Mr S had with 
Vida on 15 August showed he was already aware that his old, fixed interest rate would end 
on 16 August. Mr S may have been considering remortgaging elsewhere, as hed asked 
Vida for a redemption statement for this mortgage on 8 August. 
Because the portal does appear to have been working, and because Mr S was aware of 
when his fixed interest rate was coming to an end well before it did so, I dont think Vida is 
responsible for Mr S not switching his BTL mortgage until 18 August. 
Mr S was then very upset to find that the change he wanted to make wouldnt be 
implemented until 1 October. The additional interest due from 17 August to 31 August would 
be added to his mortgage, unless he chose to pay it. But Vida asked Mr S to pay its SVR in 
September, which was considerably more than Mr S had been paying. 
Ive seen Vidas online switching portal, and I note that it is clear that existing customers can 
switch up to six months before an existing deal comes to an end. The overview of the 
application process explains that all product switches take effect on the 1st of the month. 
And theres a link on this page to FAQs which explains when a product switch will happen. 
That says this  
When will my product switch happen?
All product switches occur on the 1st of the month. To have time to process your switch 
request we need to have received your offer acceptance 10 working days before the 
end of the month.
So it appears that Vida would usually expect its customers to apply for a product switch well 
in advance of the end of their existing deal. And I note that it did first write to Mr S about his 
old product ending on 2 May, which was some months before the old rate was due to end. 
I know Mr S has been very unhappy with how long it took Vida to put his new rate onto this 
BTL mortgage. I understand the point hes made, that other mortgage lenders are able to do 
this faster. However, our service isnt able to require all mortgage providers to come up to 
the highest standards which are demonstrated in the industry. Rather, Im only able to act 
here if I think that what has happened is unfair or unreasonable. I cant ask Vida to change 
the outcome just because other lenders might have done better in these circumstances. 
And here, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Vida to have taken some time to 
implement the changes to Mr Ss mortgage, particularly as it would have allowed Mr S to 
reserve a rate up to six months in advance, and did act to remind him of upcoming changes 
to his fixed rate well in advance of the change. I can also see it has treated him entirely in 
line with its published guidance on mortgage switching, so just as I would have expected it to treat any customer in this same situation. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this 
case for me to ask Vida to refund interest it has charged. 
Mr S also told Vida that he felt his treatment, on a call with Vida, was racist. Ive taken on 
board what Mr S has explained, but its important that I explain our Service doesnt have the 
power to make a finding on whether an act amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 
2010. That is something only the Courts can do. However, we can make a finding on 
whether Mr S was treated fairly, and when doing so, we consider relevant rules and 
legislation alongside the circumstances of the case.
Ive listened to the relevant call, and while I acknowledge Mr S strength of feeling on the 
matter, I cant agree the handling of this call warrants a higher award than Vida has already 
offered. 
I understand Mr S was already upset about how long the new interest rate would take to be 
placed his account, and I can hear that it took some time for the agent to work out what 
Mr Ss concerns were. So, I can understand why he found parts of this conversation 
frustrating. However, once the agent did grasp Mr Ss concerns, she said she wasnt able to 
change the date when his new fixed rate mortgage would take effect, and could only log a 
complaint for Mr S. I know Mr S found this unhelpful, but I think she responded in this way 
because, as Ive concluded above, Mr Ss mortgage switch had been implemented entirely in 
line with Vidas published guidance on switching. 
I can see that in its complaint response letter to Mr S, Vida said it felt that its service on this 
call wasnt up to the standard it would expect, and in particular said it would have expected 
Mr S to be offered a call with a manager. So Vida offered an award of £50, which I do think 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ss complaint. I think its likely that 
this has already been paid to Mr S, as Vida showed he had accepted its offer. But Ill require 
Vida to pay this money now, if it hasnt already done so.
While the customer service on this call may not have been ideal, and this may have 
increased Mr Ss existing dissatisfaction with Vida, I think its more likely than not that this 
was a misunderstanding by the call agent. So I wont ask Vida to increase its award here.
I know that Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision in this case, but I dont think Vida 
has been unfair or unreasonable. And I havent been able to agree that its agent treated Mr 
S differently, based on his race. For those reasons, I dont propose to uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that Belmont Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans must 
pay Mr and Mrs S £50 in compensation, unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman