DRN-2200921
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has administered his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with UKI in April 2019. Around a year later, he called up to look into 
renewing his policy. During the call, he learned that UKI had stored his bank details from the 
year before. Mr B wasnt happy that UKI had stored his information without his permission 
and he asked UKI to explain why.
UKIs call handler explained that the relevant regulators rules require it to keep this 
information for a period of six years, for money-laundering purposes. Mr B wanted some 
further information and he didnt feel his questions had been satisfactorily addressed. So he 
made a complaint. UKI maintained its position. It also told Mr B that hed upset the call 
handler and that its terms and conditions allowed it to cancel a policy if a policyholder was 
disrespectful to a member of staff.
Mr B remained unhappy with UKIs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
felt he hadnt been rude to the call handler, hed simply asked a question. Hed been upset 
by the way hed been treated and he thought UKI should pay him compensation to make 
sure this situation never happened to another consumer and to ensure UKI set the 
appropriate standards. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She explained that UKI was 
entitled to store his details for a six-year period. She acknowledged that Mr B was unhappy 
with the fact UKI had suggested he was rude. But she said this had happened as part of 
UKIs complaint handling process, which isnt something our service is able to look at.
Mr B disagreed. He said the assessment only referred to the storing of his card details. But 
he was also complaining about the fact that UKI had told him his complaint would be closed 
and that it had disconnected the call without listening to him.
The complaints been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered whether it was fair for UKI to keep Mr Bs card details on file, even 
though he didnt want to auto-renew his policy. The relevant regulators rules require insurers 
to retain payment information for a six-year period. So if UKI didnt keep the card details for 
that period, it wouldnt be complying with those rules. And I think the call handlers did give 
Mr B a clear explanation about why this information would be stored. This means I dont 
think it did anything wrong by keeping Mr Bs card details. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that he should be paid compensation for the way he was spoken to 
by UKI when he complained and for the content of its final response letter. Ive listened to 
the call between Mr B and the original call handler. I dont think Mr B was rude during the call 
 he simply wanted an answer to his question. So I can understand why he was frustrated 
and confused when UKI suggested hed been rude. And when UKIs letter referred to UKIs 
right to cancel a policy in the event a policyholder uses threatening or abusive language.
But having thought about this, while I accept Mr B was likely to be upset, I dont think the 
impact of UKIs actions were likely to have caused Mr B such material distress and 
inconvenience that I can fairly direct it to pay compensation. And Mr B seems to have mainly 
been seeking compensation to ensure protection for future consumers in this situation and to 
set appropriate standards. Our awards of compensation arent intended to fine or to punish 
the businesses we cover. Theyre intended to recognise the distress and inconvenience a 
financial business has caused an individual consumer if its done something wrong. 
It's also important I explain that that our role isnt to tell a financial business to change its 
processes or procedures. Thats because were not the industry regulator.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, Im not telling UKI to pay him anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman