DRN-1877784
The complaint
Mrs N complained about poor repairs when she made a claim under her car insurance policy 
with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs N was involved in an incident with another car and she made a claim to her 
insurer, Admiral. 
Admiral arranged for an approved repairer (AR) to repair the incident related damage. Mrs N 
was unhappy with the repairs and made a complaint . So Admiral appointed an Independent 
Assessor (IA) to inspect Mrs Ns car. He found that some, but not all rectification repairs 
were necessary. He estimated the costs to carry out the rectification repairs came to 
£601.32 inclusive of VAT.
Mrs N didnt agree and provided an estimate for repairs from a dealership garage which 
came to £3,953.47 including VAT. Mrs N said she didnt want her car to go back to the AR 
as she didnt trust them to carry out the repairs properly. 
Admiral considered the estimate, but didnt accept the estimate as it said it was inflated and 
included non-incident related work. However, Admiral said that if Mrs N was in agreement, it 
could look for another AR within its network to carry out the rectification work.
For the trouble and upset caused, Admiral paid Mrs N £75 compensation. Separately it paid 
her £50 compensation for its handling of her complaint. And it paid Mrs N a cash in lieu 
settlement of £601.32 for the rectification repairs. 
Mrs N remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought 
Admirals approach to resolve Mrs Ns complaint was reasonable and in line with the policy. 
He said that if Mrs N wanted to use her preferred garage for the rectification repairs, she 
could. But he didnt think Admiral should pay more than the preferential rate it pays an AR  
and as it had offered for an alternative AR to do the work, the investigator thought Admiral 
had been fair to Mrs N. 
The investigator thought Admiral should pay a further £125 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, so £200 in total. He said Mrs N had made a number of calls and 
spent time dealing with Admiral following the first set of repairs. 
Admiral accepted the investigators findings. Mrs N didnt agree. She wants £2,500 
compensation to go toward the rectification repairs. She remains unhappy with the IAs 
findings and says Admiral has caused her considerable distress and affected her health. 
In June 2020 Mrs N told us she sold her car. She said she sold it for less due to the 
paintwork and rectification repairs not being carried out. 
As Mrs N didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ns policy with Admiral says the following in relation to repairs:
We are entitled to appoint an Approved Repairer to repair your car. In the unlikely 
event the
repairs are considered unsatisfactory; the Approved Repairer will have the option to 
rectify
their work. Should the repairs still be considered unsatisfactory, you may then use 
another
repairer providing we have confirmed it and agreed the work to be carried out
As Mrs N was unhappy with the first set of repairs, she refused to allow an alternative AR to 
do the rectification repairs. And she didnt agree with the IAs findings. The IA didnt uphold 
all of her complaints about further damage Mrs N said the AR caused, and incident related 
repairs she felt hadnt been done or done properly. 
The estimate Mrs N provided from her preferred garage was significantly more than the 
estimate for rectification repairs provided by the IA. Admiral didnt agree with it. As the 
assessor was independent, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to give more weight to his 
opinion overall. 
I understand Mrs N has since sold her car. But I think Admirals decision to pay her a cash in 
lieu settlement for the rectification repairs  based on the IAs findings - was enough to put 
things right. And its offer for an alternative AR to carry out the rectification repairs was fair 
and reasonable. As Mrs N chose not to accept Admirals offer and wanted to use her 
preferred garage, she was free to make that decision. But I dont think Admiral should have 
had to pay the difference.
I think Mrs N was caused distress and inconvenience by having to contact Admiral following 
the first set of repairs, which were not done properly. Its clear that she made a number of 
calls to discuss her concerns with Admiral and her car had to be inspected by an IA. And I 
appreciate that Mrs N says Admirals dealing of the claim caused her ill health. 
I think a fairer compensation award is £200 in addition to the £75 Admiral has already paid. 
This is in line with awards we give for similar circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mrs N £125 compensation in addition to the £75 its already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman