DRN-3012198
The complaint
Mr A complains Mortgage Express failed to process his request for a payment deferral which 
led to arrears building up on his mortgage account and adverse entries on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A said he contacted Mortgage Express in March 2020 to ask for a payment deferral in 
relation to his mortgage payments and again in July 2020 to request an extension to the 
payment deferral. 
Mr A discovered in around September 2020 that the payment deferral hadnt been put place. 
Arrears had built up on his account and Mortgage Express had reported the arrears, so they 
were showing on his credit file. Mr A had to pay the arrears in a lump sum and through a 
payment plan. And the adverse entries on his credit file affected his ability to get funding for 
his buy-to-let mortgage.
To put things right, Mr A wanted Mortgage Express to correct the missed payment record on 
his credit file or provide written confirmation that his credit file had been affected in error.
Mortgage Express rejected Mr As complaint. They couldnt find any evidence hed asked for 
a payment deferral. And theyd written to him letting him know he was in arrears and offering 
help, but he hadnt contacted them. 
Our investigator didnt think Mortgage Express had done anything wrong and didnt uphold 
Mr As complaint. So, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr A found it frustrating to find arrears had been reported on his credit file 
when he thought he had a payment deferral in place with Mortgage Express. And I am sorry 
to hear of the difficulties Mr A had due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But, for the reasons Ill 
explain, I dont think Mortgage Express did anything wrong.
There seems to have been some initial confusion over whether Mr A applied for a payment 
deferral by telephone or on-line. Mr As recollection is that he called Mortgage Express in 
mid-March 2020 and they told him hed need to apply for a payment deferral on-line. He 
says he made an initial on-line application that month and requested an extension in July 
2020 in the same way. 
Mortgage Express have explained they didnt set up their on-line service for applying for 
payment deferrals, following government guidance issued in relation to the Covid-19 
pandemic, until early April 2020 and the service was fully automated by July. 
Mortgage Express carried out a reasonable investigation to check their records for any 
contact from Mr A they might have missed. But they have no record of any contact from Mr A 
- either on-line or by phone - applying for a payment deferral in March 2020 or asking for an 
extension in July 2020. Mr A hasnt provided any evidence that persuades me Mortgage 
Express should have a record of him contacting them. So, I dont think Mortgage Express 
has failed to process an application they ought to have been aware of.
Mortgage Express wrote to Mr A several times about the arrears that were building up on his 
account, asking him to get in contact. Mr A says he didnt get any letters until the end of the 
summer as he was living away from his usual correspondence address because of the 
pandemic. And he contacted Mortgage Express in September 2020 when he knew there 
was a problem.
Mortgage Express sent the arrears letters to the address they had on file and had the 
reasonable expectation theyd be delivered to Mr A at that address by the postal service. 
Mr As queried why Mortgage Express didnt have his phone details, which hadnt changed 
for many years. The reason for thats not clear. But since Mortgage Express didnt have a 
phone number on file for Mr A or other means of contacting him, and Mr A hadnt let them 
know he was living elsewhere, I think it was reasonable for Mortgage Express to attempt to 
contact Mr A in the way they did. 
Mortgage Express said they had to report the arrears to credit agencies because of the level 
theyd reached. I agree it was reasonable for them to do so given the arrears that had built 
up. Since I dont think Mortgage Express did anything wrong here, I wont ask them to 
correct the credit file or provide the letter saying they did that Mr A asked for. 
I can see Mortgage Express and Mr A worked together to arrange for Mr A to pay what he 
owed, as Id expect. But, bearing everything in mind, I dont think Mortgage Express did 
anything wrong in relation to the payment deferral and credit file reporting, so I dont uphold 
Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman