DRN-3067002
The complaint
Mr A complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
These are the main details of loans Everyday Loans provided to Mr A: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
25/05/2017 £2,500 24 
months£195.53 01/02/2018
01/02/2018 £4,500 36 
months£248.81 Loan 
outstanding
Mr A said that Everyday Loans didnt properly check affordability before lending to him. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr A (through his representative) didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment so his 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint and Ive concentrated on the 
following:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr A 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr A.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr A would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
For loan 1, Everyday Loans asked Mr A for information about his income and expenditure 
and it also obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Mr A and used 
statistical information to help build a detailed picture of Mr As financial situation. It calculated 
that Mr As take home pay was around £1374 per month. The loan was going to be used 
partly for debt consolidation  in other words, to pay some existing credit debts. After 
working out the figures it relied on for Mr As regular monthly spending and the existing credit 
commitments he would still be paying, Everyday Loans calculated that after taking into 
account his repayment on this loan, he should still have had disposable income of around 
£450. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mr A were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
However, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
I accept that the information shown on the credit checks Everyday Loans obtained 
didnt look particularly concerning. But I think Everyday Loans will be aware that a 
credit report can sometimes be incomplete or unreliable. And I think that Everyday 
Loans shouldve seen from looking at the bank statements it obtained from Mr A that 
these showed that Mr A was in serious financial difficulty. 
It was apparent that in the three months running up to him taking out this loan he had 
been making extensive use of high cost credit from a number of other providers. As 
Mr As representative has pointed out, in March 2017 Mr A took out 11 different loans and seems to have borrowed more that month than he repaid. This pattern was 
repeated in April 2017 when he borrowed 5 new loans totalling £1,070  an amount 
which almost matched his income that month (this shows on his bank statements as 
£1,107.71).
In May 2017 Mr A received payments totalling £1,642.16 from his employer so I think 
the income figure Everyday Loans used in its affordability assessment was reasonable 
overall. But it couldve also seen that Mr As bank statement shows he received 10 
other credits into his account from a number of high cost lenders ranging between £20 
and £400 - as well as the loan from Everyday Loans.     
Given that Everyday Loans had gathered this information I think, as a responsible lender, it 
shouldve recognised that Mr A was displaying clear signs of serious financial difficulty. It 
was evident from his bank statements that Mr A didnt have the amount of disposable 
income Everyday Loans assumed he had  during the three months prior to him taking out 
this loan he had been borrowing substantially more than this amount from payday lenders 
and taking out unsecured loans to fund the payments on previous loans. So it shouldve 
been apparent to Everyday Loans that, in reality, Mr A had a monthly deficit and he was 
stuck in a cycle of debt. And as it could also see that Mr A was struggling to keep his 
account in credit for a lot of the time and making full use of his £250 arranged overdraft 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able reasonably to conclude that its loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr A.
I think the clear evidence of serious financial difficulty that Everyday Loans saw shouldve 
prompted it to decline Mr As loan application. I dont think the fact alone that this expensive 
loan was used partly to repay other expensive credit means it was fairly provided. Overall, 
I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to 
Mr A wouldnt put him in a worse position given the evidence it saw which suggested the 
scale of his debts was significantly more than Everyday Loans allowed for when making its 
lending decision. I think it should have realised that the way Mr A used credit and the extent 
of his outstanding borrowing made it unlikely that the amount of its loan would make any 
significant lasting impression on his financial situation overall. Taking all this into account, 
Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was 
unlikely to help Mr A and more likely to potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer 
term.
So I dont currently think Everyday Loans should have agreed to give this loan to Mr A.
And I think thats borne out by the fact that when Mr A applied to Everyday Loans for loan 2, 
its credit checks showed that his indebtedness had increased very substantially  up from a 
figure of around £1,000 that Everyday Loans saw on its credit checks for loan 1 to £6,247 as 
shown on its credit checks for loan 2  despite the fact Everyday Loans had used part of 
loan 1 to pay some of Mr As debt. The bank statements that Everyday Loans had acquired 
provided details of this borrowing and showed that Mr As reliance on taking out payday and 
unsecured loans had continued. It was apparent that Mr As income was insufficient to cover 
his credit commitments and pay his regular outgoings so the inevitable conclusion should 
have been that he was only able to make repayments out of other borrowed money  and 
that situation was unlikely to change with loan 2. The scale of Mr As debts, compared to the 
much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that he would remain in serious financial 
trouble regardless.
So I cant identify any fair and reasonable basis for Everyday Loans to have concluded that 
this loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr A.I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way. But, taking everything into account, I dont 
think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide these loans to Mr A. 
As Mr A has been further indebted with expensive loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. 
So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr A shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given 
both these loans. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr A, keeping in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically if Mr A needs further time to pay.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the loans.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Mr As complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman