DRN-2410885
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how National Westminster Bank UK Plc (NatWest), has 
handled a request they made for point-in-time balance information on their bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have explained that in July 2020, they noted the balance on their Select bank 
account was £9,952.52. So, to increase the balance of this account to £10,000 exactly, they 
transferred an amount of £47.48 into the select account.
However, on checking the balance of the Select account a few days later, Mr and Mrs S 
noticed this was £9,999.80, rather than the £10,000 they were expecting. So, Mr and Mrs S 
contacted NatWest to query this  and request a point in time balance for their account, so 
they could understand the discrepancy that has arisen.
NatWest explained to Mr and Mrs S that it wasnt able to provide a point in time balance  it 
was only able to give them a balance for the account, as it sat at the end of the working day. 
It also initially told Mr and Mrs S it couldnt find a discrepancy with the account.
NatWest later provided a further response to Mr and Mrs S. It said it could see where the 
confusion had arisen  and explained the following;
The balance of Mr and Mrs S account had been £9,798.12;
A credit then entered the account  for £154.20, taking the account balance to 
£9,952.32, rather than £9,952.52. This was 20p less than Mr and Mrs S thought the 
balance was before transferring further funds;
Mr and Mrs S transferred in an amount of £47.48, making a total balance of 
£9,999.80, rather than £10,000.
Given the above, NatWest maintained that there was no discrepancy on Mr and Mrs S 
account. NatWest also reiterated that it wasnt able to provide a point in time balance. And 
couldnt see any problems with its mobile banking app which could explain why Mr and Mrs 
S had seen 20p more in their account.
Mr and Mrs S didnt feel NatWests response resolved their complaint. And so, they referred 
their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He explained he wasnt able to request NatWest 
provide a point in time balance, as Mr and Mrs S wanted. He noted this wasnt something 
NatWest was able to do  and it wasnt this services role to change a banks processes. Our 
investigator also said the above figures did show there was no discrepancy on Mr and Mrs S 
account. And, that NatWest had apologised for not clarifying the matter in its first response 
to Mr and Mrs S. So, our investigator said NatWest didnt need to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They felt it was unreasonable that NatWest couldnt provide a 
point in time balance, given the size of the institution. And, they felt not being able to do this 
left their banking open to fraud  meaning they had lost faith in the bank.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mr and Mrs S have noted a discrepancy in their bank account. So, Ive looked to see 
whether NatWests clarification of this is correct. And I think it is.
Ive seen a statement of the funds in Mr and Mrs S account. And, I can see that the balance 
initially stood at £9,798.12, before a credit of £154.20 took the total balance to £9,952.32. A 
further addition to the bank account then took the balance to £9,999.80. Given the 
information from this statement, Im satisfied the account balance was correctly noted as 
£9,999.80, rather than £10,000. So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in relation to 
the balance, or in confirming this information to Mr and Mrs S.
NatWest has said they havent been able to identify any problems with their mobile banking 
application  that would mean Mr and Mrs S were presented with the incorrect balance of 
£10,000 at first. And, in the absence of any firm evidence to confirm this was what was 
shown, and to highlight an error, Im not satisfied NatWest did anything wrong in respect of 
this.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have said that as a resolution to their complaint, they want to see 
the balance at the specific time they made the transfer of £47.48 into their account, and the 
total amount following this  rather than the total of their account at the end of the business 
day. And they feel this is something this service should ask NatWest to provide. I do 
appreciate why Mr and Mrs S want this  they feel it will answer their queries, and that 
NatWest should be able to supply this.
But it isnt unusual that a point in time balance cant be provided by the bank, when later 
enquiring about this. The system will show the balance at the end of the business day, 
including the transactions that occurred on the account. And this means it is possible to see 
the history of funds in the account. NatWest has explained the history of Mr and Mrs S 
account, and why this means the total balance was £9,999.80  rather than £10,000. And as 
above, Ive seen a bank statement which shows the transactions as described above. So, I 
think its clear what happened in respect of the account, and why the balance was 
£9,999.80.
It isnt this services role to act as regulator for the financial services industry, or to require a 
financial business to alter its processes. So, Im not requiring NatWest to alter its systems to 
provide a point in time balance retrospectively  so it can provide one to Mr and Mrs S in this 
case. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Therefore, I dont 
require National Westminster Bank UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 Rachel Woods
Ombudsman