DRN-3973936
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Royal London (RL) allowed her pension to be claimed 
fraudulently by a third party.
Mrs H is being represented by her daughter, Mrs C. As both have provided accounts of the 
time in question and information about the complaint, I will refer to both of them throughout 
this decision.
What happened
Mrs H held a private pension with RL for some years. In June 2016 RL received a letter from 
Mrs H requesting the encashment of her pension and for the lump sum to be paid to her in 
full.
RL has said it conducted a risk call with Mrs H at the time prior to sending her the retirement 
pack because the pension was deemed to be a post pension freedoms small pot claim. It 
has said the call took place on 19 July 2016 with Mrs H directly. And having been satisfied 
with the conversation it proceeded with the encashment request.
When the completed forms were returned to RL it found it didnt hold a signature for Mrs H 
so it wrote to her to ask her to send in some documents so her identity could be verified. 
These requirements were complied with and so RL completed the encashment of the 
pension in September. RL wrote to Mrs H to inform her of this on 5 September 2016. The 
letter also contained a cheque for monies made payable to Mrs H (using her full name). RL 
explained that even though the pensions encashment forms contained instruction that the 
pension was to be paid into a bank account in the name of Mrs Hs husband, it couldnt do 
this because the bank account was not in her name.
Mrs Hs daughter, Mrs C, has said that it was Mr H and his mistress that had fraudulently 
requested the encashment of Mrs Hs pension without her knowledge. She has explained 
Mrs H suffers from mental health problems and has recently been deemed to have no 
capacity to handle her own financial affairs. She has said Mrs H was in an abusive marriage 
and Mr H and his mistress had a history of committing fraud.
Mrs C has also said her mother was forced to sign the forms to encash her pension which 
she did out of fear but she didnt know what they were for. And that her fathers mistress 
pretended to be Mrs H when RL called to conduct the risk assessment.
Mrs C feels that RL should have been suspicious about the encashment request as the 
request letter was typed rather than handwritten and the original instruction asked for the 
monies to be paid into a different bank account to that of her mother. And she feels RL 
should have done more to protect Mrs H.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
was of the view that the documents RL had requested to confirm Mrs Hs identity and 
signature were easily available to Mr H at the time and so could have been submitted to RL 
by him. And that this along with the instruction to pay the pension into Mr Hs bank account 
should have prompted RL to make further enquiries into whether the request had genuinely 
come from Mrs H. Overall he didnt think RL had done enough to assure itself it was Mrs H 
who was requesting the encashment of her pension. So he suggested RL pay the crystalised 
value of the pension to Mrs H along with £150 for the distress and inconvenience RL had 
caused.
RL didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view it had done all it could to 
verify Mrs H had requested the encashment.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 where I set out my reasons why I wasnt 
upholding the complaint. An extract of this is set out below and forms part of this final 
decision:
Before I explain my reasons, I must make it clear that I dont know if any fraud has actually 
been committed or that Mrs H was indeed in the difficult situation her daughter has 
described. However, if she was I have much sympathy for the difficulties she has 
experienced and for the situation she has found herself in.  But it is important to note that 
this decision, and the final one that will follow, does not reflect my opinion of Mrs Hs 
personal situation. As a neutral party this decision is limited to only the complaint in hand  
whether Mrs Hs pension was fraudulently encashed- and in relation to this I must decide 
whether RL was or should have been aware of the potential for fraud and therefore failed to 
protect her in the way it should have.
From everything I have seen in deciding this complaint I dont think RL did fail in its duty or 
procedures and I have seen nothing that gave RL reason to suspect anything fraudulent was 
potentially happening.
In my view RL followed its processes to verify that Mrs H was the one who had requested 
the encashment and that she was who she said she was. Because of the small size of her 
pension RL had to conduct a risk call and while RL hasnt been able to find the actual call 
recording it has provided a log of the questions asked and the answers received. Looking at 
this there appears to be no reason to suspect anything. It seems the questions were all 
answered correctly therefore RL had no reason to think something underhand was going on. 
If it wasnt actually Mrs H on the call at the time I cant see how RL would have known this as 
it wouldnt have known how Mrs Hs voice sounded.
Another important point is that the forms were signed by Mrs H. And while Mrs C has said 
Mrs H was forced to sign them and didnt know what they were for I dont think its 
reasonable that RL would have known any coercion was involved so this isnt something it 
can be held responsible for.
I appreciate what Mrs C has said that the typed letter requesting the encashment should 
have been viewed as suspicious but I dont think the presence of a typed letter indicates that 
fraud is being perpetrated. And I dont think its reasonable for RL to have drawn any 
suspicion from this - most people type letters these days and the fact Mrs H didnt know how 
to do this again isnt something that RL would have known at the time.
In relation to the request to make the payment of the pension into the bank account of Mr H 
again I dont think this was a clear indication of fraud. While RL could have questioned this 
as it was slightly unusual it isnt beyond the realms of all possibilities that this is the way 
some people work. And in any event, it didnt make the payment into the account but instead 
sent Mrs H a cheque for the monies made payable only to her. So again, this diminishes the 
risk that Mrs H didnt know about this as she would have had to pay it into her account with 
some form of identification.I know Mrs C has said she is unhappy with the types of documents RL required to verify Mrs 
Hs identity, but these were on a list of documents RL considered were adequate to verify 
identity in general. So again I am of the view RL followed its procedures and it isnt for me to 
comment on the efficacy of those procedures as it is a matter of commercial policy.
Overall therefore I am not satisfied that RL did anything wrong or didnt do enough when 
processing the request to encash Mrs Hs pensions.
I think RL checked what was required to assure itself the request for encashment was 
legitimate. And Ive seen nothing to suggest RL would have known there was a risk of fraud 
without being told about the situation directly, which it wasnt.
Therefore if the pension was accessed fraudulently by someone other than Mrs H I dont 
think RL was in a position to know this as it wasnt told of Mrs Hs situation at the time and in 
my view it followed all of its procedures to rule this out for any potential for fraud. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome, especially after the assessment upheld the 
complaint. But I trust my reasons for not upholding this complaint are clear and 
understandable.
No response to the provisional decision was received by Mrs H or Mrs C. And RL responded 
saying it had no further comments but agreed with the findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded with any comments I have no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
While I know the outcome is disappointing, especially after the complaint was upheld at the 
assessment stage, I remain of the decision that the complaint cant be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman