DRN-1840738
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc didnt do enough to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
On 9 April 2019, Ms B received an invoice from her builder for some upcoming work via      
e-mail. She made an online transfer of £5,142.08. Later that evening she received 
communication from her builder saying that his e-mail account had been hacked and his 
account details on the invoice had been changed, meaning shed sent the £5,142.08 to a 
scammer.
Ms B contacted Bank of Scotland that same evening at around 9pm to report the scam. They 
contacted the beneficiary bank the following morning to request a return of the funds. The 
beneficiary bank responded on 7 May 2019 to say none of the funds remained. Bank of 
Scotland explained that as they had sent the funds in line with Ms Bs request, they were 
unable to refund her with the £5,142.08.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service. Our adjudicator investigated and felt it was 
reasonable for Bank of Scotland to have processed the payment without asking Ms B any 
further questions or completing any additional checks. He also felt that Bank of Scotland had 
done what they could to try and recover the funds and didnt need to do more in the 
circumstances. 
Ms B disagreed with this. In particular, she was unhappy that the bank did not cross-
reference the name of the payee she input when making the online payment, as it couldnt 
have matched the name on the beneficiary account. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Bank of Scotland are also required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms B when she made the payment of £5,142.08, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. 
Both parties accept that Ms B authorised the payment herself. This means Bank of Scotland 
had an obligation to follow that instruction and make the transfer. But as explained above, 
there are some situation in which Bank of Scotland should reasonably have taken a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer. For example, if it was particularly 
unusual or out of character for Ms B.
Ms B has highlighted the fact that this payment was larger than her normal spending habits 
and looking at her statements for the months leading up to the payment I can see it was. 
Though there was a transfer of £2,100 the month before, there werent many other larger 
payments. But thats the only thing that was out of character about the payment; I can see 
Ms B did make transfers regularly, so the payment type wasnt unusual. On balance, in this 
particular case, I dont think the increase in value alone is enough to say that Bank of 
Scotland should have treated the payment as potentially fraudulent and carried out 
additional checks. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to process the 
payment in line with Ms Bs instruction. Ms B acted quickly when she was aware that shed been scammed and contacted Bank of 
Scotland to raise a scam complaint at around 9pm. Bank of Scotlands fraud team contacted 
the beneficiary bank at around 8am the following day. While there was a gap in the message 
being passed onto the beneficiary bank, neither of the fraud departments were open 
overnight and available to action the request for a return of the funds. So, I dont think it 
would have made a difference had Bank of Scotland contacted the beneficiary bank sooner. 
It took around a month for the beneficiary bank to respond, although Bank of Scotland did 
chase them for a response during that time. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank explained 
that none of Ms Bs funds remained in the account. 
Ms B has said that Bank of Scotland should have cross referenced the name of the account 
holder that she gave against the one on the beneficiary account. This is because she gave 
the business name of her builder, so it would not have matched the name of the account 
holder on the actual beneficiary account. Our adjudicator explained that at the time that Ms B 
made the transfer, it wasnt a requirement for banks to cross-reference the names on 
accounts and all they would use is the account number and sort code for UK based 
payments. This is correct and at that time its unlikely it would have even been possible for 
Bank of Scotland to cross-reference the name if theyd wanted to as the systems werent in 
place for that to happen. So ,I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error by not also using 
the payee name when making the transfer. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Ms Bs account that were relevant at the time of 
the payment and I can see it says that to make a payment we normally need the sort code 
and account number or card number and any other details we ask for. It doesnt specifically 
say they dont use the name given when sending a payment, so I think they could have 
made this clearer to Ms B in the document. And Ive considered whether it would have made 
a difference to Ms B if it had been made clearer. In this case, as Ms B didnt have suspicions 
at the time of making the payment that she could be being scammed, I dont think it would 
have affected her decision to make the payment had she known Bank of Scotland wouldnt 
be cross-referencing the name as well as the sort code and account number. 
I want to acknowledge that Ms B has been the victim of a particularly cruel and convincing 
scam here and Im very sorry that shed had to go through such an experience. Ive had to 
assess the actions of Bank of Scotland in this case and having done so, I think it was 
reasonable for them to have made the payment without additional questions or checks and 
that they didnt cross-reference the name of the account holder. And while I think they could 
have sent the request for a return of the funds to the beneficiary bank sooner, I dont think it 
would have made a difference in this case. So I dont think it needs to refund Ms B with the 
£5,142.08
My final decision
I dont uphold this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman