DRN-3030931
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. And they said that because Capital One told us 
that the commission for Mrs Ws PPI was more than 50% of what she paid, Capital One 
needed to pay back some of the commission she paid for the PPI. Capital One says it has 
already done in 2018 and so has nothing more to do. 
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because, to get the cover Mrs W had to tick a box for it on 
the application form for her credit. The box is so ticked on the copy of the form Capital 
One has provided from the sale. And Mrs W signed that form which suggests her 
agreement to its contents.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs W enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W. The policy would 
have paid out in addition to her sick pay and for longer than her employers would have 
paid her at her full rate of pay. And this would have reduced her reliance on the modest 
savings she told us about. Although Mrs W says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical 
condition exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. 
I say this because Mrs W told us that the condition occurred nine years before the sale 
and there is no detailed testimony about it or any testimony that suggests it caused her 
ongoing issues or a single day off work in those intervening years. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs W would have declined the cover had Capital One done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive noted that Capital One has already made the payment of redress that it 
should do as prescribed by the FCA and so theres nothing more it needs to do. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
So, Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman