DRN-3995116
The complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Os complaint is about two credit card accounts with MBNA.
The first account was opened on 9 November 2006 with a credit limit of £10,000. The credit 
limit was increased to £16,100 and later decreased to £5000, before being increased to 
£6,300 in November 2014 and to £7,900 in January 2017.
The second account was opened on 19 March 2009 with a credit limit of £10,000. The credit 
limit was increased to £16,000 in March 2013.
Mr O complained that MBNA lent to him irresponsibly.
MBNA said the complaint had been brought out of time. One of out ombudsmen looked into 
this and decided that we could look into the complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there wasnt enough information to say that 
MBNA hadnt caried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
applications but said that further checks shouldve been carried out when the credit limit on 
the first account was increased to £7,900 on 31 January 2017. The investigator reviewed Mr 
Os income and expenditure information leading up to the January 2017 lending decision 
and said that Mr O didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford the additional 
borrowing.
MBNA didnt agree. It queried whether Mr Os expenditure was solely his, or whether it was 
split with another member of the household. It also queried whether Mr Os self-assessed 
expenditure from 2017 could be verified and said that Mr Os bank statements from the time 
of the application provided clearer confirmation of his expenditure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Os complaint.
MBNA needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr O could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount and Mr Os income and expenditure.
Prior to approving the accounts, MBNA looked at the information provided by Mr O in his 
application. It also obtained information about Mr Os income. Because of the length of time 
which has passed since the accounts were opened in 2006 and 2009, theres limited 
information available about the checks carried out by MBNA and the information it gathered. 
Mr O hasnt provided any information about his income and expenditure at the time either. 
So, because of the lack of information, Im unable to say that MBNA didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks or that it acted unfairly in approving the applications.
For the same reasons, Im also unable to say that MBNA acted unfairly when it approved the 
first three credit limit increases on the first account, or the credit limit increases on the 
second account. 
Ive gone on to consider whether MBNA carried out reasonable and proe0tpoinate checks 
before approving the credit limit increase on the first account in January 2017 and whether 
the lending decision was fair.
Theres limited information on the checks that MBNA carried out. At the time of this credit 
limit increase, Mr O had a total credit facility of £24,700, which was almost as much as his 
annual income. Because of the extent of Mr Os credit exposure at this time, I think it 
wouldve been proportionate to carry out further checks to obtain information about Mr Os 
income and expenditure and his other credit commitments.
I dont know exactly what checks MBNA wouldve carried out or what information it wouldve 
gathered. Ive reviewed Mr Os financial circumstances at the relevant time because I think 
this is the best evidence of what MBNA wouldve found out if it had carried out proportionate 
checks.
The information Ive seen shows that Mr Os monthly income was around £1,718 and his 
essential expenditure was around £1,350. These figures dont include Mr Os existing credit 
commitments. Based on what Ive seen, Mr O didnt have enough disposable income to 
sustainably repay any further borrowing. This service has asked Mr O whether he split his 
expenditure with anyone else and hes confirmed that he was solely responsible for these 
outgoings.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think MBNA carried out proportionate checks before 
increasing the credit limit on the first account in January 2017. Had MBNA carried out 
proportionate checks, it wouldve discovered that Mr O didnt have sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably repay the borrowing. Because of this I think the lending decision was 
irresponsible. 
Putting things right
Because I dont think MBNA shouldve increased the credit limit in January 2017, I dont 
think its fair to charge Mr O any interest or charges on balances exceeding £6,300. That 
said, Mr O has had the benefit of the money, so he should pay this back.
MBNA Limited must;
Rework the account removing all interest, fees and charges applied to balances over £6300 
on the first account.
If the rework results in  a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr O along with 8% 
simple interest per year * calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. MBNA should also remove all adverse information relating to the account from 
Mr Os credit file.
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance, MBNA should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr O for the balance. Once the balance is cleared, MBNA should 
remove all adverse information relating to the account from Mr Os credit file.
Because MBNA has sold the account to a third party, it must either but back the debt or 
liaise with the third party to facilitate the redress Ive set out above.
*HMRC requires MBNA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr O a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MBNA Limited must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman