DRN-4022879
The complaint
A  a business  has complained about the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided when A 
tried to open a new business account. 
What happened
On 27 August 2021, two of As directors attended an appointment at a Barclays branch to 
open a business bank account. In order to get an appointment quickly, theyd had to travel a 
significant distance from their local branch. 
As part of the account opening procedure, Barclays said that it would need company headed 
paper to confirm As trading address. A did not have such a document. Barclays said it 
would accept a letter from As accountant, but as specific wording was required, an email 
would be sent to A setting out that specific wording. 
A says it received an email shortly afterwards on 27 August 2021, but the specific wording 
was not attached. A responded by email to chase the missing attachment and left some 
voicemail messages. Barclays did not respond to As messages. A alleges that Barclays 
then tried to retract the email message of 27 August 2021. 
As director had a relationship manager through his personal account with Barclays. On 15 
September 2021, As director wrote to his relationship manager to request a copy of 
Barclays complaints procedure, but says no response was received from the relationship 
manager. A complained to Barclays by telephone on 21 September 2021. 
In response, Barclays said that it was its usual policy to turn away customers if they didnt 
have the correct documentation. However, at the appointment, Barclays had tried to be 
helpful by saying A could email proof of its trading address later. Barclays said it emailed A 
the same day with the information that was needed. Barclays says A did not respond and so 
an email reminder was later sent. 
Later on, Barclays said it noted a small typographical error in the emails it had sent to A. It 
believed As complaint to be that no email had been received at all. It said the typographical 
error may have been why A had not heard from Barclays. In any event, Barclays then 
accepted that As reply to the email of 27 August 2021 and subsequent follow-up calls had 
been missed. Ultimately, Barclays offered to pay A £150 to compensate it for the errors it 
had identified. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer of £150 compensation was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. 
A did not accept our investigators view and an ombudsmans decision was requested. By 
way of response, A ultimately said it wanted me to consider: 
Barclays failure to provide its complaints procedure to A when requested; 
Barclays response to the complaint; 
Retraction of the email sent on 27 August 2021 and Barclays subsequent 
falsification of evidence indenial of this; and 
Barclays unwillingness to undertake a simple test, which showed a prejudicial 
attitude to its complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is that Barclays offer to pay £150 is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
First of all, I think it would be helpful for me to clarify the role of this service. We are an 
informal and independent dispute resolution service, which means it is our role to decide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to an individual complaint. It is not our role to impose policies or 
procedures on a financial business. Similarly, we do not act on behalf of either party to a 
complaint. 
I should also make clear that where the facts in a case are in dispute (as they are here), then 
I must apply the balance of probabilities. What that means in practice is that I will decide 
whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence thats before me
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the fair outcome.
 
In respect of the email Barclays sent to A on 27 August 2021, although I have not seen a 
copy of the reply, I accept A did respond to Barclays to say that the attachment mentioned 
within that email had not been included. I also accept that A chased Barclays by telephone, 
but no reply was received. I further accept that A did not receive any substantive 
correspondence from Barclays until 21 September 2021. Barclays accepts it took too long to 
respond to A in this regard. So, it will need to take some action to put that right. 
That said, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that A lost out financially because of how 
long it took Barclays to respond. However, like our investigator, I can see how chasing this 
matter would have been inconvenient to A as a business. I agree with our investigator that 
Barclays should pay compensation to A for this. 
I know in response to our investigators view, A was keen for Barclays to send a test email 
so that it could be determined whether the person it met with on 27 August 2021 was being 
truthful. I do not consider such an email to be material or necessary to my consideration of 
this complaint. The issue in this case is that Barclays did not respond to As email of 27 
August 2021, subsequent voicemails and the resulting impact of that delay on A as a 
business. Sending a test email as suggested by A is not material to that issue and Im afraid 
I cannot agree with A that it prejudices the complaint if such a test email is not sent by 
Barclays. 
I can see As director strongly believed that Barclays withdrew the email it sent to A on 27 
August 2021. I have not seen any evidence to suggest the email was retracted. It is As case 
(and I have accepted) that A received and responded to Barclays email of 27 August 2021. 
So, if A had already responded, it is not entirely clear to me how Barclays could have 
retracted the email or how A lost out in any way even if it had. As I said above, the key issue 
in this complaint is Barclays delay in responding to the correspondence sent by A on 27 
August 2021. 
I can see As director alleged Barclays had falsified evidence in respect of its complaint. I 
cant say it is most likely that Barclays did so. I cannot see what Barclays would gain from 
incorrectly saying it had sent an email to the wrong email address if it knew such 
correspondence had already been received by A. 
A alleged that Barclays had deliberately obstructed the process because it was annoyed A 
was chasing a response. I dont doubt this belief is genuinely held by A, but I have seen no evidence at all to suggest that Barclays acted deliberately to slow down the process of 
opening the business account or dealing with the complaint. 
One of As significant concerns in this case is that the relationship manager for the directors 
personal account did not provide A with information as to Barclays complaints procedure. 
However, as our investigator explained in his view, the complaint that is before me is a 
complaint brought on behalf of A  not the director personally. It is therefore beyond the 
scope of this complaint for me to consider what happened between As director and the 
relationship manager in respect of the directors personal account. 
Alternatively, it may be possible to argue that the relationship manager should have 
responded to a general enquiry from A as to what Barclays complaints procedure was. I 
accept A emailed the relationship manager on 15 September 2021 and a response does not 
appear to have been sent. However, I cannot see how A lost out because the relationship 
manager did not respond. I note A was able to make a complaint to Barclays by telephone 
on 21 September 2021  some six days later. And I can see that it is set out on Barclays 
website as to how a complaint can be made. 
Putting all of this together then, I accept Barclays most likely did not respond to As email of 
27 August 2021 until 21 September 2021. I can see how that would have caused 
inconvenience to A as a business. As I said above, Barclays will need to compensate A for 
that error. 
I know that As director feels strongly about the issues within this complaint and he will be 
disappointed with the outcome here. But my decision is that the £150 offered by Barclays is 
a fair way to settle this complaint. I understand that no payment has yet been made to A. 
Putting things right
Barclays must pay £150 to A to compensate it for the mistakes identified above. 
My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman