The complaint
Mr S complains about Argo Direct Limited ("Argo") declining part of his home contents 
insurance claim for a television. Mr S also feels that Argo's engineers were responsible for 
damage to the television when it was inspected and returned to him. He wants Argo to pay 
for replacing the television. 
What happened
Mr S holds home contents insurance with Argo. His policy included cover for accidental 
damage. 
In autumn 2019, Mr S submitted a claim for damage to a mirror and television. Mr S reported 
that he was in the process of hanging the mirror when the string supporting it snapped. He 
said that he lost his balance and fell onto the television, causing it to fall backwards where it 
hit the wall. The mirror was smashed and Mr S said that the television would switch on, but 
that no picture then appeared. 
Argo requested some details and evidence from Mr S, which he provided. This 
included photographs of the damaged mirror and examples of replacements to show the 
value. Argo settled the cost of replacing the mirror. 
Argo requested that its engineers inspect the television and Mr S sent this in. The engineers 
prepared a report and set out that they did not consider that the damage was consistent with 
the incident described. 
The engineers reported that the fuse for the television had blown, and it would not power on. 
This was due to a conductive item entering the back of the television and shorting the circuit. 
The engineers replaced the fuse and the television powered on, but showed a line down the 
screen. The engineers considered that this line was due to wear and tear, which was not 
covered by Mr S's policy. 
Argo therefore declined to cover the cost of the television and returned this to Mr S. The 
television was returned and signed for at the end of November 2019. 
Mr S contacted Argo again around 10 days later, reporting that the screen of the television 
had been damaged in transit and that he thought that Argo's engineers or carriers were 
responsible. 
Mr S complained to Argo. Argo responded to that complaint with its final response in 
December 2019, rejecting the complaint. 
Mr S was not happy with that response and contacted us. 
DRN-1658881One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and has set out her view to the 
parties. This view was that Argo had acted reasonably in declining the claim for accidental 
damage, and that Argo had provided evidence of properly packaging the television for its 
return. She therefore felt that Argo had acted reasonably and were not responsible for the 
damage to the television. She did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S described damage from an impact to the television and that it would no longer show a 
picture, even though it would switch on.
Argo has provided evidence of its inspection, and evidence supporting its conclusion that the 
television was not damaged in the way initially described by Mr S. They have provided 
evidence showing that the fuse had been blown by a conductive item, and that when the 
fuse was replaced the television would power up, but that there was a line down the screen. 
Their engineers consider that this line was due to wear and tear, and that it was not 
consistent with the impact described by Mr S. 
I am satisfied that Argo's decision to decline this part of the claim was based on expert 
evidence and was reasonable in the circumstances. Consequently, I agree with the 
investigator's view that Argo has not done anything wrong in declining this part of the claim. 
In respect of the damage that the television then suffered, Mr S has provided photographs 
showing extensive damage to the screen, also seemingly from an impact. Mr S says that this 
damage was sustained before it was received back by him. 
Argo has provided evidence showing the condition of the television when it was with the 
engineers, and that it was packaged appropriately for return to Mr S. 
Unfortunately, Mr S did not retain the packaging and so the condition of that packaging 
cannot help to demonstrate whether the television was damaged in transit. 
Mr S has said that he, and several others, witnessed the condition of the television when it 
was unpacked, but he did not raise any concern with Argo until around 10 days later. 
However, on the evidence available I cannot conclude that the damage sustained after 
inspection was the fault of Argo, its engineers, or those responsible for transporting the 
television. 
I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr S, but for these reasons I agree with the 
investigator's view that Argo has not done anything wrong. I do not uphold Mr S's complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr S's complaint, and I do not ask Argo 
Direct Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman