DRN-3260137
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Smart Investor (Barclays), 
didnt allow him to sell his rights. He said Barclays apologised for its poor communication 
and paid him £150. But he wants compensation for the loss of not being able to sell his 
rights.
What happened
Mr T held shares in a company, that I will refer to as R, in his Barclays execution only 
stocks and shares ISA account. R announced a rights issue in 2020. Barclays told Mr R he 
needed to give instructions to take up the rights by 9 November, otherwise the rights would 
lapse.
Mr T phoned Barclays on 10 November to check if he was still able to take up the rights. 
When he couldnt, he gave instructions to sell the rights. But Barclays told him it was also too 
late to give sale instructions.
Mr T said Barclays told him the rights were tradable until 12 November; and it shouldnt have 
refused to take his instruction.
Barclays said it couldnt process any sales after 9 November, which was its internal cut-off 
date for all instructions. But it accepted it had given Mr T the dates from the market 
announcement and that it should have made things clearer. It paid Mr T £150 for the 
inconvenience its communication caused and for the delay in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the 
banks offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Barclays didnt mention the option of selling all of the rights in its communication. This 
implied that the 9 November deadline did not apply to a sale instruction.
Rights were traded in the market on the 10 and 11 November. Barclays chose not to 
accept his sale instructions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Barclays terms and conditions say:
3.1 Unless we agree otherwise with you, where we hold Assets which give you 
rights in relation to a company, including if we become aware of any proposed class 
action or group litigation: 
(i) we will not be responsible for taking any action in relation to these matters, except 
to give effect to default action if you do not give us an Instruction; 
(ii) to the extent permitted by Regulatory Requirements we will not be obliged to 
notify you or obtain your Instructions in relation to these matters; 
(iii) if we do seek but do not receive your Instructions by any deadline stated by us, 
we will take such action as we consider appropriate (including taking no action); and 
(iv) if we seek and receive your Instructions by any deadline stated by us, we will 
take such action as we reasonably consider appropriate, including action that does 
not accord with your Instructions where following such Instructions is not reasonably 
practicable.
Whilst these terms do not oblige Barclays to seek instructions for a rights issue, I think it is a 
fair and reasonable expectation that it would do so. Whilst the company and market will set 
the various timescales for such events, its reasonable for Barclays to set its own timescales. 
As a broker with many clients holding shares in a nominee name, it will require time to 
collate instructions before being in a position to submit them by the markets due date.
Barclays made it reasonably clear in its communications that it required instructions to take 
up the rights by 9 November 2020.
When Mr T phoned Barclays on 10 November, he wanted to give instructions to take up the 
rights. He was told he was too late, and he accepts this.
Barclays communication about the rights issue did not include an option to sell the rights. 
But Mr T could have given instructions to sell the rights after theyd been allocated to him 
towards the end of October. 
Barclays accepts that its communication should have been clearer. It included information 
lifted from the market announcement which said the rights were tradeable until 
12 November. But its internal cut-off date for sale instructions was the same as that for take 
up instructions - 9 November.
Barclays has explained that the 9 November cut-off time also applied to sale instructions 
because of settlement timescales. Whilst I accept that rights trading took place on 10 and 
11 November, Barclays was entitled to choose and earlier cut-off date. And, bearing in mind 
what its told us about settlement timescales, I dont find it acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
doing so.
For failing to make it clear that the 9 November cut-off also applied to sale instructions, and 
for the delay in responding to Mr Ts complaint, Barclays has paid him £150. I find this to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require Barclays to pay Mr T any 
additional compensation.
Mr T also raised concerns that the default option was not appropriate. If Barclays didnt 
receive instructions by the cut-off date, the rights would be allowed to lapse. Mr Ts account 
is execution only, so it wasnt for Barclays to decide the most suitable option for him. And 
I find the default action was made clear in its communication.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman