DRN-1989281
The complaint
Mr H had a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) with Halifax Share Dealing Limited. 
He complains that having set up a trade plan in advance to sell his shares at a particular 
price, the trade plan was not put in place by Halifax. 
He says the trade plan was not present on his account due to Halifaxs system or operator 
error.
What happened
Mr H says he set up the trade plan concerned a month or two in advance, to sell his shares 
when they reached a particular price. Ill refer to this trade plan as the advance trade plan, 
for ease of reference. Mr H says the advance trade plan was set up to make trades in a 
group, Ill refer to as Group A. Mr H had made Group A trades previously.
Mr H called Halifax on 3 September 2019. His call was about another trade he was making. 
During that call Halifaxs call handler asked if Mr H wanted to discuss a trade in Group A.   
Mr H said his call was about a different trade. There was no further mention of Group A after 
that. 
Mr H said he noticed on 10 September 2019, that the Group A advance trade plan did not 
show on his account history. He said he contacted Halifax straight away. Mr H said that 
other trade plans which had been deleted or amended were shown on his account history. 
So, Mr H thinks that Halifax may have deleted this advance trade plan either through IT 
error, or due to individual operative error - and thats why its not recorded.
Halifax told Mr H there was no record of the advance trade plan on his account history and 
as a result it did not uphold his complaint. But, it did tell him that a trade for Group A was 
referred to during his telephone call with Halifax on 3 September 2019.
Mr H says that the call on 3 September 2019, provides evidence of the existence of the 
advance trade plan.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that 
it should not be upheld. Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have listened to the telephone call between Mr H and Halifax on 3 September 2019. There 
was a brief mention of a trade plan with Group A. The call handler mentioned this without 
any prompting by Mr H. Mr H says this provides direct evidence that the advance trade plan 
must have existed.
I have also seen screenshots from Halifaxs records. These show Mr H had previously made 
Group A trades, the last of these being in June 2019. According to the screenshots, the last 
three transactions on his account were Group A trades. Halifax says the call handler 
wouldve seen this information, when she viewed his trading account during the call.
Where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a decision 
about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available. 
Like our adjudicator, having listened carefully to this call, and seen the screenshots, I dont 
see that the reference to Group A during the call on 3 September 2019, shows that more 
likely than not, what the call handler was referring to was the advance trade plan. I think it 
more likely that the operator was referring to the old trades, visible from Mr Hs account 
history.
Mr H says that the advance trade plan must have been deleted from his account history due 
to an IT system error, or due to operator error. I think had it been deleted by an operator, 
more likely it wouldve remained visible on his account. I say this because other deleted or 
amended trades still showed.
We asked Halifax whether around that time, it had a record of any similar concerns being 
raised about trade plans being set up, which didnt then show on the customers account. 
Halifax checked with its IT department and said there were no other reported concerns of 
this nature. So, I dont have enough to fairly conclude that Mr Hs advance trade plan was 
likely not set up or removed due to a Halifax system error.
charges
Mr H said that Halifax charged a trade plan fee when a trade plan was set up, irrespective of 
whether a trade was later executed. He said if his account was looked at, it would show 
whether a charge was made for setting up this particular advance trade plan.  
We asked Halifax about this. It said that for SIPPs, the trade plan fee was taken when the 
trade was executed, rather than when the trade plan was created on line. It said with a CMA 
Share Dealing Account (which this wasnt) a fee of £2.00 would show in the cash movement, 
but this was not the case with a SIPP account.
So, whilst I accept that Mr H believed he had set up an advance trade plan on his account, I 
cant reasonably find that Halifax is responsible for one not being in place. There are other 
plausible explanations for why this advance trade plan was not showing. So, based on what 
Ive seen, I cant fairly find that Halifax has done anything wrong here.
It follows therefore, that I cant reasonably ask Halifax to do anything more, and so I do not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman