DRN-3264676
The complaint
Mr A and Miss R complain HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A and Miss R took out a PPI policy in July 2006 alongside a mortgage. The policy, which 
was joint, wouldve paid a monthly benefit if either of them couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if they became unemployed.
About a year ago, Mr A got a letter from HSBC telling him that, in relation to a complaint 
made previously about this PPI policy, HSBC hadnt looked at whether it had taken a high 
level of commission from Mr A and Miss R. This letter was sent to Mr A following a decision 
by the Supreme Court on this issue and new rules for financial businesses the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced following it. HSBC said in its letter it didnt think the 
FCAs new rules applied to Mr A and Miss Rs PPI policy but that they had the right to bring 
the matter to us, if they wished. Thats what Mr A and Miss R have done.
Our investigator looked at the sale of Mr A and Miss Rs PPI policy and at whether the FCAs 
rules on commission applied to it. She didnt uphold Mr A and Miss Rs complaint.
Mr A has asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr A and Miss Rs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint Mr A. But I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
One of the first things I have to look at in relation to the sale of Mr A and Miss Rs PPI policy 
is whether HSBC made them aware they had a choice about PPI and got their agreement to 
it.
Mr A cant remember much about how the PPI was sold. Given how long ago it happened, 
this isnt surprising. HSBC has given us documents showing Mr A and Miss R first applied 
for a PPI policy alongside a mortgage in February 2006. This mortgage didnt go ahead and 
so the PPI policy wasnt put in place. But HSBC has given us information showing Mr A and 
Miss R did take out a mortgage with PPI in June 2006. And it says it sold the PPI to them by 
phone at around this time. Unsurprisingly, it doesnt have a copy of the sales call.
The documents Mr A and Miss R signed in February 2006 (which included a separate PPI 
application form), made it clear the PPI was optional. And in signing them, I think Mr A and 
Miss R showed they were agreeing to it then. I dont know what was said in the phone call in 
which HSBC sold Mr A and Miss R the policy they did end up going ahead with. But given I 
think they agreed to the first PPI policy, knowing they didnt have to  and in the absence of 
any information that they werent given a choice about the PPI policy they did take out  I 
dont have enough information to be able to say fairly and reasonably that HSBC did 
anything substantially wrong here.
Ive gone on to see if theres any other reason why I should uphold Mr A and Miss Rs 
complaint about the sale of the PPI but I dont think there is.
HSBC says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A and Miss R. From the information Ive seen, 
I think thats probably right. So HSBC didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did 
have to make sure Mr A and Miss R got the clear information they needed to make that 
decision themselves. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr A and Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely they chose to take out the PPI  and so it 
looks like they probably wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover  so  it wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. I say this especially bearing in mind that a mortgage 
is a significant financial commitment, secured on your home, which is at risk if you fall behind 
on your repayments  so protecting it against the unexpected is often prudent. 
All in all, I dont think its likely clearer information about the PPI, if it had been needed, 
wouldve put Mr A and Miss R off taking out the cover. 
In relation to the commission part of Mr A and Miss Rs complaint, as Ive mentioned already, 
the Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy - Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the FCA  who (as Ive said) make the rules for financial 
businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for them to follow when looking at 
PPI complaints that are affected by this court ruling. 
What this means is that if businesses expected to get a high level of commission from the 
PPI  more than half of what the consumer paid for the policy  they shouldve told the 
consumer about it. If that didnt happen, it might mean the business didnt treat the consumer 
fairly. And, in turn the business might have to give the consumer some of that commission 
back. 
But there are certain types of mortgage agreement that this doesnt apply to  one of which 
is whats known as a regulated mortgage. From the information Ive got, Mr A and Miss Rs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage  and so I dont think HSBC have to refund any of the 
commission they paid for the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr A and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman