DRN-4330804
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr G saw an advert for an investment company on a social media platform. He 
was interested in making some extra money, so followed the link and entered his details in 
the enquiry section of the investment companys website. Mr G then received a phone call 
from someone who said they were a financial advisor at the investment company. And the 
advisor talked him through opening a Monzo account to send his money through, setting up 
an account on the companys trading platform and how to pay money into the trading 
platform.
Mr G made an initial investment with the company of £100 and, as the trading platform 
showed the investment doing well and generating returns, he made a number of further 
payments to the company over the following days. The payments were all made from Mr Gs 
Monzo account to a cryptocurrency exchange, and Mr G says all they were made under the 
guidance of the advisor. Ive set out the payments made from Mr Gs Monzo account below:
Date Amount
18 July 2022 £100
3 August 2022 £2,000
9 August 2022 £5,000
11 August 2022 £10,000
12 August 2022 £10,000
12 August 2022 £2,404
13 August 2022 £9,004
After the payment of £10,000 on 11 August 2022, Mr G asked to remove some of the profit 
the platform showed he had been making. But he was given a number of reasons why he 
had to pay more money in before he could withdraw funds, including commission and 
payments to the regulator. Mr G therefore made the payments of 12 and 13 August 2022 
but, when he was then told he needed to make more payments for tax, he realised it was a 
scam and reported the payments to Monzo.
Monzo investigated but said Mr G had authorised the payments and hadnt taken the steps it 
would expect to check who he was paying. So it didnt agree to refund the money he had 
lost. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought Monzo should have identified 
that Mr G was at risk of falling victim to a scam and intervened before the fourth payment he 
made. And that, if it had intervened, the scam would have been uncovered and Mr G 
wouldnt have lost any of the later payments. But they also thought Mr G should have done 
more and so should bear some responsibility for his loss. So they recommended Monzo 
refund 50% of the money Mr G lost, from the fourth payment onwards. Monzo disagreed with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Monzo do enough to protect Mr G?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr G 
accepts he made the payments here. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, he did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that 
Monzo was obliged to follow his instructions and make the payments. So Mr G isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Monzo should have identified that Mr G was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
Monzo has argued that it shouldnt be expected to have identified a risk of fraud here, as 
Mr G had said the account would be used for spending towards cryptocurrencies when he 
opened it  and so the payments werent out of character. But while I agree it is reasonable 
for Monzo to take the stated use of an account into consideration when looking at the risk 
certain payments represent, I dont think a stated use means all payments for that purpose 
cant represent any risk at all.
The first few payments Mr G made here werent for what Id consider to be particularly large 
amounts, and werent made particularly close together in time. They were also made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, and so were in line with the intended use of the account Mr G had 
given Monzo when opening the account. And so I think its reasonable that Monzo didnt 
identify a risk of fraud as a result of these first payments.
But once Mr G tried to make the fourth payment here, for £10,000 on 11 August 2022, I think 
Monzo should have identified a risk. This payment was for a significantly larger amount. And 
at this point Mr G had made four payments to the cryptocurrency exchange in just a few 
weeks, totalling a considerable amount of money and increasing in size every time  which 
matches a pattern of payments often seen in scam cases. So even though Mr G appeared to 
be spending on cryptocurrency as he had intended to do so, I think the other circumstances 
here mean Monzo should still have identified that he was at risk of financial harm from fraud. And so I think it should have intervened to carry out additional checks before allowing this 
payment to go through.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Monzo should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the investments Mr G thought he was making.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr G would have lied or tried to mislead Monzo if he was 
asked about the payment. So I think its likely he would have told Monzo the payment was 
for an investment he was making. I think Monzo should then have asked further questions 
about the investment, such as what he was investing in, where he had found out about the 
investment and whether anyone was helping him with it. And I think Mr G would then have 
said he was investing in cryptocurrency, had found out about the investment company online 
and was being guided through making the payments by an advisor from the company. And 
as this fits the pattern of common cryptocurrency investment scams, I think Monzo should 
then have warned him that he was likely the victim of a scam.
If Monzo had warned Mr G that his circumstances fitted the pattern of common 
cryptocurrency investment scams, and given him some advice on how to avoid scams such 
as trying to withdraw all his funds or checking the company was registered with the FCA, I 
think he would have realised that this was likely a scam and wouldnt have made any further 
payments.
So if Monzo had done more to try to protect Mr G, as I think it should have, I dont think he 
would have made this fourth payment or any of the later payments. And so I think Monzo 
should therefore refund the money he lost as a result of the scam, from the fourth payment 
onwards. As Mr G has now been without this money for a period of time, I think Monzo 
should also pay him compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of 
the payments until the date they are refunded.
Should Mr G bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive also considered whether Mr G should bear some responsibility for the loss he suffered. 
And while I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam where he spoke with the scammer 
frequently and was given a trading platform to monitor his investment, I think there were a 
number of things about what he was told or what was happening that should have caused 
Mr G significant concern.
Mr G doesnt appear to have done significant checks into who the investment company was, 
or whether the advisor he was speaking to was connected to the company. He doesnt 
appear to have received any documents or literature about the company or the investments 
he was making. And he doesnt appear to have fully understood what investments he was 
supposedly making or why the money had to go to a cryptocurrency exchange before 
reaching the trading platform. And given the amount of money Mr G ultimately invested, I 
think its reasonable to expect him to have checked and understood these things before 
going ahead.
Mr G has also said the trading platform showed the balance of his investment was more than 
ten times the amount he had invested when he tried to withdraw from it. But I think these 
kinds of returns in less than a month are unrealistic and too good to be true. So I think they 
should have caused Mr G concern about whether what he was being told was true.Mr G was also told he had to pay more money in before he could withdraw the profit he had 
been making. But it doesnt appear that he was told about this requirement before investing, 
and this isnt how genuine investments would work. So I think this should also have caused 
him significant concern about whether what he was being told was true.
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr G to bear some responsibility for the loss he 
suffered. And so I think it would be fair for Monzo to refund 50% of the money he lost, from 
the fourth payment onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr G 50% of the money he lost, from the fourth payment onwards  totalling 
£15,704
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payments until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman