DRN-3886155
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather.
 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, around the time of Storm Franklin, several large trees in a neighbouring 
property to Mr B and Mrs B were blown over. While they fell into the neighbours garden, the 
tree root-balls were uplifted when the trees fell, causing damage to the foundations and 
structure of a log cabin in Mr B and Mrs Bs garden (which they were using as a home 
office), close to the boundary with their neighbour. The damage left the cabin unsafe to use.
They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. QIC appointed a 
surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage. The surveyor visited the property at 
the beginning of March 2022. At the same time, QIC noted Mr B and Mrs Bs preference for 
one of their contractors to carry out the repair work, but said the lead times for work to begin 
could be up to six weeks (given industry issues of availability and shortage of materials, as 
well as the effects of the Covid Pandemic). Given this, QIC asked whether they would 
consider an alternative of a cash settlement.
The surveyor returned the following week with a building contractor (T) who assessed the 
damage and work needed to reinstate the cabin. During the visit, Mr B and Mrs B say they 
were asked whether they would consider a cash settlement for the claim, given the nature of 
the damage and the complexity of the work needed to re-build the log cabin. Mr B and Mrs B 
say a figure of £11,500 was mentioned. However, Mr B and Mrs B said they would prefer the 
rebuilding work to be carried out by QICs contractor.
Later that month, Mr B and Mrs B obtained a quote from the firm that installed the cabin 
(which was bespoke) for a replacement cabin (£9,048 including VAT and installation, with a 
lead time of 8-10 weeks).
QIC then made a cash settlement offer of about £4,500. Mr B and Mrs B rejected the offer 
and made a formal complaint to QIC. They also complained about the time being taken to 
settle the claim. They were also unhappy at QIC refusing to provide details of their building 
contractors estimate (which was the basis of the cash settlement offer). 
QIC didnt uphold the complaint, maintaining their cash settlement offer was fair. They said 
the claim had been considered (and accepted) under the Falling Objects section of the 
policy (falling trees). They said they instructed T to complete the repairs. However, T couldnt 
complete the repairs due to the condition of the boundary between Mr B and Mrs B and their 
neighbour (which they said would need a retaining wall to be built, but wouldnt be related to 
the incident and therefore wouldnt be covered under the policy), so T werent able to offer 
warranted work on the repair. Consequently, QIC were only able to offer a cash settlement. 
QIC further confirmed the scope of works for the repair from their in-house surveyor had 
been costed at £5,552 (£4,427 plus £925 VAT, less the policy excess of £100). 
Mr B and Mrs B then complained to this service. They were unhappy at being left with a 
damaged log cabin on an unstable base (and that further bad weather would lead to the 
failure of the foundations and the cabin to collapse). They were also unhappy at the time 
taken to assess the claim and what they saw as QIC not making a formal offer to resolve the 
situation. They wanted QIC to offer a realistic cash settlement (and to show how the figure 
had been arrived at) so Mr B and Mrs B could repair the damage to the cabin.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC had acted fairly. But Mr 
B and Mrs B supplied further information and representations about the boundary with their 
neighbour. They also said the condition of the cabin had deteriorated such that QIC and T 
didnt think it would be possible to reassemble the cabin to an appropriate standard (as had 
been planned when the original scope of works was produced). So, the investigator thought 
the cost of replacing the cabin (not simply reassembling it) should be added to the scope of 
works. Which would meet the policy reference to rebuilding in the same form, size, style and 
condition as when it was new. The investigator concluded the case and the settlement offer 
hadnt been dealt with fairly by QIC. 
To resolve the complaint, the investigator thought a further scope of work should include the 
reinstatement of the retaining feature (fence) that Mr B and Mrs B said theyd put up within 
their boundary. And include the cost of replacing the cabin in full (to return it to its condition 
before the incident). Once the revised scope had been prepared, a new settlement should 
be offered to Mr B and Mrs B.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the cabin could be rebuilt and wouldnt need to be replaced from new. 
So, the original scope of work (which was based on reassembling the cabin) was still 
appropriate as a basis for the cash settlement offered. 
In my findings, I wasnt persuaded QIC acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B in the cash 
settlement they offered. 
Having reached this conclusion, I thought QIC should revise the scope of works to include 
provision for the cabin to be replaced, rather than reassembled, and for reinstatement of the 
boundary fence. The revised scope of works should then form the basis of a new cash 
settlement offer to Mr B and Mrs B.
I also considered that part of Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about the time taken by QIC in 
assessing the claim and offering a cash settlement. From the sequence of events and what 
happened, it appeared formal confirmation of the offer wasnt made until June 2022. I think 
Mr B and Mrs B suffered distress and inconvenience from what happened. Considering the 
circumstances of the case, I thought QIC should pay Mr B and Mrs B £150 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
The main element of Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint is that QIC havent made a reasonable 
offer to settle the claim, saying it is significantly less than would be needed to reinstate the cabin. QIC say theyve made a fair and reasonable cash settlement based on a costed 
scope of works from their surveyor (and estimate from their building contractor).
The first point Ive considered is that, while the damage was the result of trees blown down 
at the time of Storm Franklin, QIC didnt consider the claim under the storm section of the 
policy (sub section 3 of Section 1  Buildings cover in the policy). Rather, they considered 
the claim under sub section 10 (Falling objects) which states:
We will cover loss or damage caused by:
a. Falling telegraph poles, lamp posts, fixed ariels, satellite dishes, fixed solar 
panels and masts; or 
b. Falling trees and branches.
While they didnt assess the claim specifically under the storm section, from the information 
Ive seen about the weather conditions at the time of the incident (both from QIC and from 
the weather firm this service uses) there were storm conditions. The damage is also 
consistent with that expected in a storm, and from what Ive seen there isnt doubt the storm 
(by blowing over the trees) was the main (dominant) cause of the damage. So, while Im 
satisfied the claim could have been assessed (and accepted) under storm damage, Ive 
considered QICs assessment of the claim under the falling objects section of the policy.
Ive then considered the substantive issue, how QIC have handled the claim. Firstly, the 
settlement theyve offered and, secondly, the time taken to deal with the claim.
On the first question, in their final response QIC say the nature of the boundary with Mr B 
and Mrs Bs neighbour means they cant offer a warranted repair (reinstatement) of the 
cabin. So, they have to offer a cash settlement. While Mr B and Mrs B have provided 
evidence about the boundary fence they erected within their property, in making their 
complaint (and responding to our investigators view) theyve asked for QIC to make what 
they consider to be a fair and reasonable cash settlement to enable them to restore their 
cabin to the condition it was before the incident. Given this  as well as QIC saying they will 
only offer a cash settlement - Ive gone on to consider the basis of the cash settlement. 
As a point of principle (and as the policy terms and conditions provide) a cash settlement 
under the policy is based on a scope of work prepared by QICs surveyor, in conjunction with 
their contractor (T). That scope is then used as the basis for the cash settlement using the 
rates QIC can obtain from their contractor. Its common for insurers to be able, due to the 
amount of work they commission from contractors, to negotiate discounted rates for carrying 
out work to repair damage. I think thats reasonable, so the issue in this case comes down to 
the scope of the work to be included. QIC say their original scope is a fair and reasonable 
basis for the cash settlement theyve offered. But Mr B and Mrs B disagree. 
Ive considered the original scope of work, and think it includes what Id expect given the 
nature of the damage. Ive also considered the key area of disagreement - whether the 
scope should include replacing the cabin (rather than rebuilding the existing cabin) and 
whether the boundary fence Mr B and Mrs B say they built on their side of the boundary 
should be included (as it was damaged in the incident).
On the first point, whether the cabin should be rebuilt or replaced, Ive considered carefully 
what Mr B and Mrs B have said and the information theyve provided in support. Ive also 
considered QICs view, including on the views provided by Mr B and Mrs B. Having done so, 
Ive concluded the scope of work should include provision for the cabin to be replaced, rather 
than reassembled. The scope of work produced was based on the assumption the cabin 
could be reassembled once the foundations and underpinning ground had been restored (and that the cabin could be disassembled and stored on site at the property while work on 
the foundations and underpinning was carried out. 
However, Mr B and Mrs B say the cabin was warped by the impact of the trees falling at the 
time of the incident (what they describe as a whiplash effect). Not that it became warped in 
the time after the incident, or the way it was kept. On balance, Im persuaded by what 
theyve said (including their account of discussions with QICs surveyor and T at the time of 
their visits). So, I think the scope of work should be revised to include a replacement cabin, 
not rebuilding the existing cabin.
Turning to the issue of the boundary fence Mr B and Mrs B say they installed, within the 
boundary of their property, Ive considered what Mr B and Mrs B have said, including the 
evidence and information in support. Im persuaded by what theyve said, and having been 
provided with the information, QIC have not specifically challenged what Mr B and Mrs B 
have said. So, Ive concluded it would be reasonable to include an element for reinstatement 
of the boundary fence within a revised scope of work. While the Falling Objects sub section 
excludes cover for fences, as the damage from the falling trees was the result of storm 
conditions (and the storm sub section doesnt include such an exclusion) I dont think it 
would be reasonable to use the Falling Objects exclusion to avoid including reinstatement of 
the boundary fence in a revised scope of works. 
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have acted fairly 
towards  Mr B and Mrs B in the cash settlement theyve offered. 
Having reached this conclusion, I think QIC should revise the scope of works to include 
provision for the cabin to be replaced, rather than reassembled, and for reinstatement of the 
boundary fence. The revised scope of works should then form the basis of a new cash 
settlement offer to Mr B and Mrs B.
Ive also considered that part of Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about the time taken by QIC in 
assessing the claim and offering a cash settlement. From what Ive seen about the sequence 
of events and what happened, while QIC (through their surveyor) indicated the value of their 
cash settlement at the time of their inspection visit, it appears formal confirmation of the offer 
wasnt made until June 2022. I think Mr B and Mrs B suffered distress and inconvenience 
from what has happened. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think QIC should 
pay Mr B and Mrs B £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
revise the scope of works to include provision for the cabin to be replaced, rather 
than reassembled, and for reinstatement of the boundary fence. The revised scope of 
works should then form the basis of a new cash settlement offer to Mr B and Mrs B.
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Mr B and Mrs B responded to say they had no further evidence to provide. They did ask that 
the reinstatement of the boundary fence the provisional decision said should be included in a 
revised scope of works, should include a suitable retaining structure.QIC responded to say they had no additional information to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
On the point raised by Mr B and Mrs B, while its a technical detail Id expect QIC to consider 
when revising the scope of work, I would expect any revised scope on reinstatement of the 
boundary fence to include all elements necessary to return it to the condition it was in before 
the incident. If this included a suitable retaining structure, then Id expect it to be included.
Taking these points together, then my provisional findings and conclusions remain 
unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
revise the scope of works to include provision for the cabin to be replaced, rather 
than reassembled, and for reinstatement of the boundary fence. The revised scope of 
works should then form the basis of a new cash settlement offer to Mr B and Mrs B.
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman