DRN-2817619
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc rejected her claim for a refund under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a defective kitchen.
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs B purchased a fitted kitchen and paid the majority of the price using 
her Sainsburys credit card. The kitchen was supplied in January 2019, and in February it 
was installed by a contractor (not by the retailer which sold her the kitchen).
In September 2019, Mrs B complained to the retailer about a stain which had appeared on a 
cupboard door. The retailer replaced the door for free, but as a gesture of good will, not 
under the warranty.
After that, Mrs B reported further damage to cupboards and drawer fronts, consisting of 
similar stains, and also some white marks which had started appearing where paint was 
flaking off. Since more than six months had passed since the purchase, the retailer required 
Mrs B to prove that these issues were defects in the products supplied and not wear and 
tear.
In July 2020, Mrs B obtained a written report from a plumber, who took photographs of the 
damage and concluded that the kitchen was not fir for purpose. He agreed with Mrs B that 
the stains had been caused by cleaning products containing bleach, or by splashes of 
bleach from when she had been cleaning the floor. He said that he had never encountered a 
kitchen which could not withstand exposure to bleach, as this was a common cleaning 
product. He said the colour coat finish covering the panels, doors and drawers must be 
defective. He also said that in some places the coating was too thin, and it had flaked away, 
creating the white spots. There were no signs of impact where the white spots were.
The retailer did not accept that a plumber was qualified to give a report about the state of the 
kitchen. It also said that bleach should not be used in kitchens. But it still made two offers to 
Mrs B. One offer was to replace all frontals, including all doors and drawer fronts, under 
warranty, and also to cover a reasonable fitting cost, which it estimated would be between 
£500 and £750. Alternatively, it would pay Mrs B £1,400 in full settlement, without replacing 
anything.
Mrs B was not satisfied with either of those offers. She thought that the fitting costs would be 
far more than the retailer had suggested. This was because she thought it would be 
necessary to remove the oven and a quartz worktop in order to refit a panel, and this would 
require an electrician. She was also concerned that the problems would recur with the 
replacement parts, as the defects appeared to affect the entire range, not just her own 
kitchen (based on reviews she had found online). She asked for the whole kitchen to be 
replaced. When the retailer did not agree, she brought a complaint to the Furniture 
Ombudsman, but it said that the retailers offer was fair.
Mrs B next raised a claim with Sainsburys under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But 
Sainsburys did not uphold her claim. It told her that the report she had obtained did not 
support her allegation that there was a manufacturing fault. So Mrs B brought this complaint 
to our service.
Sainsburys reviewed this case and offered Mrs B £50 by way of apology for some customer 
service issues. But it did not change its stance on the section 75 claim.
Mrs B modified her stance, and agreed to accept new cupboard door frontals, provided that 
they were installed by someone approved by the retailer, and that any damage caused in the 
process was put right, and the old doors were taken away.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He accepted the report as reliable evidence of the 
paint flaking, and he accepted its conclusion that it is not reasonable for a kitchen unit to be 
unable to withstand being cleaned with products that contain bleach. He decided that the 
retailer had been in breach of contract and that Mrs Bs section 75 claim was well founded. 
He thought that fair compensation would be for the cupboard door frontals to be replaced at 
no cost to Mrs B, and that Sainsburys should arrange this with the retailer. He also said that 
Sainsburys should pay Mrs B £300 for her inconvenience.
Sainsburys did not accept that opinion. It argued that the £300 compensation was more than 
the retailer would have been liable for, and that its own liability should be no greater. It said 
that such compensation fell outside the scope of section 75. It also said that the proposed 
remedy of replacing the cupboard doors was identical to what the retailer and the Furniture 
Ombudsman had proposed earlier, and so the retailer should do it instead of Sainsburys.
The investigator said that Mrs B had been entitled to seek a better remedy under section 75, 
and that since he had recommended a more generous remedy than the Furniture 
Ombudsman, Mrs Bs decision had been vindicated. Since Sainsburys did not agree, he 
referred this complaint for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it, and I agree with the investigators proposed 
redress. I will explain why.
I have noted the retailers reservations about the author of the report, and I accept that a 
different expert would have been chosen if one had been instructed jointly. But the retailer 
did not suggest the joint instruction of an expert, it left it entirely up to Mrs B. I have read the 
report, and I think the matters which had to be investigated were not complicated, and that 
the author got to grips with the relevant issues, clearly described the faults he discovered, 
and wrote a convincing, persuasive and impartial account of what he found. I accept his 
conclusions. To be specific, I accept that the white marks were not caused by impact 
damage but by the paint flaking off the surface because of a fault which was present at the 
point of sale. And I agree that a kitchen which cannot be cleaned with household products 
containing bleach (Mrs B used a well-known brand) is not fit for purpose. (I was surprised to 
read that the retailer thinks otherwise.)
I therefore find that there was a breach of contract by the retailer, and that under section 75 
Sainsburys is liable for that. Sainsburys liability is the same as the retailers, but that is not 
confined to whatever the retailer was willing to offer, or whatever the Furniture Ombudsman 
was prepared to award. Besides replacing the defective units, a court could also have 
ordered the retailer to pay Mrs B compensation as well, and so Sainsburys can be liable for 
that too, as the investigator pointed out. I dont need to speculate about what a court would do, but I think that £300 is in line with what our service would typically award for the 
inconvenience which resulted (and which is still yet to result) from the retailers breach of 
contract.
There is also another difference between the retailers offer to replace the frontals, as 
endorsed by the Furniture Ombudsman, and the award the investigator recommended. That 
is that the original offer was only to cover such fitting costs as the retailer thought were 
reasonable, which it thought would be between £500 and £750. That estimate might have 
been accurate, but Mrs B was not sure, as I have said. The investigator placed no such limit 
on the cost of remedying the problem, and neither will I. I will require the work to be carried 
out at no cost to Mrs B. The retailers offer also did not explicitly mention that any resulting 
damage would be put right (although the retailer may have taken this for granted). I will 
make that an explicit requirement.
I also note that under section 75(2), Sainsburys may seek to recover its losses from the 
retailer.
For all of these reasons, I think it is fair to decide that Sainsburys should pay for the work, 
rather than forcing Mrs B to accept the retailers offer, which might still have left her out of 
pocket.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Sainsbury's Bank Plc to:
Arrange with Mrs B and the retailer to replace all frontals (including the cupboard 
doors and drawer fronts) from Mrs Bs kitchen, put right any damage which may be 
caused in the process, and remove and dispose of the old units. All of this work is to 
be carried out by the retailers approved fitters at no cost to Mrs B.
Pay Mrs B £300 for her trouble (instead of the £50 it has offered her).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman