DRN-3628220
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
flawed. He thinks this has caused a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr H approached Acumen in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand he was also concerned about the situation with the BSPS and his employer. 
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. 
Mr H was 26 and he was living with his partner, they had a young dependent child. 
He was employed by Tata Steel on a basic wage of £30,000 a year but had recently 
earned more than this due to working overtime. 
He owned his home outright and it had a value of around £82,000. 
He had no savings or investments, 
He had a loan of about £14,000 which had a monthly repayment of £264, and some 
modest other credit. 
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it said was high 
medium or six on a scale of one to ten. It also said that he had a low capacity for risk.  
In respect of Mr Hs pension arrangements: 
He had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in September 
2017. This showed that he had over seven years service and was entitled to a pension of 
£3,421.93 at his date of leaving in March 2017. The transfer value was £69,465.83. 
He was a member of the new employers Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. He was 
contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%. 
On 19 December 2017, Acumen advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP 
and invest in funds that Acumen said matched his attitude to risk. The suitability report said 
that the growth rates required to match the DB scheme  the critical yields  may not be 
achievable, and he may receive a lesser amount by transferring. But Mr Hs need for 
flexibility, and the substantially improved death benefits outweighed this. So, the transfer met 
his objectives. 
Mr H also transferred the DC scheme value at the same time. He held £2,822.42 in the DC 
scheme and this was also placed in the SIPP. Mr H remained a member of the DC scheme 
and contributions were made into it going forward. As far as I can see Acumen didnt 
document this part of the transfer although it clearly went ahead due to the contact Mr H had 
with Acumen. 
Mr H complained in 2022 to Acumen about the transfer advice because he thought it was 
unsuitable. And the advice didnt properly take into account his circumstances. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It concluded that the advice was suitable for him 
and was in his best interests. It thought that the transfer met his needs for flexibility. 
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Acumen pay compensation. He thought that the advice 
wasnt suitable for Mr H as he was likely to receive lower retirement benefits due to it. He 
didnt think any greater flexibility, or death benefits, that the SIPP might provide outweighed 
this. He also didnt think there was a good reason to transfer the DC scheme. 
Acumen disagreed, saying that Mr H could not go into the BSPS2 as it was not established 
and he didnt want to go into the PPF. He didnt trust his employer. So, a transfer was the 
only option that met his needs. 
Mr Hs representative questioned the tax treatment in the compensation and the assumed 
retirement age used in this. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Acumen carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
However, this was based on his existing scheme benefits and Mr H didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to 
the PPF. 
Acumen has said the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it could 
provide was with the benefits available to Mr H through the PPF. But I think Acumen 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr H had received his Time To Choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the benefits 
available to Mr H through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so that 
Mr H was able to make an informed decision. 
As Ive outlined above, Acumen was clear in that the transfer wasnt feasible in respect of 
replacing the pension benefits he was giving up. I agree with this, and Ive explained why 
below. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was 26 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between his ages 60 and 65. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 65 was 7.2% - Im assuming this was 
on the basis he was taking a full pension although this isnt made clear. And at age 60 this 
was 7.6%. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 
quoted as 5.7% per year.
As Ive said above, Mr H remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by Acumen. 
The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat compared to the BSPS but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. So, if Mr H were to opt into the BSPS2 
and take the same benefits at age 65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between 
those figures, and likely closer to 7%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year to Mr Hs ages 60 and 65. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was nearly 6%, I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
Acumen has said the main driver in this transfer was Mr Hs need for flexibility. Ive 
considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that Acumen recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr H. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr H needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. To my mind 
this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
It's evident that Mr H could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr H had to take those benefits 
at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr H had any concrete need to take tax-free 
cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. 
Acumen didnt establish, with any degree of accuracy, what Mr Hs income needs in 
retirement would be. And I dont think this is entirely unreasonable given that Mr Hs 
retirement was so far in the future. But, of course, this means that it also difficult to advise Mr 
H on his retirement as it didnt really know what he needed.  
But Mr H had a DB scheme which would have provided a guaranteed and increasing income 
of around £8,900. He would also be likely to have a state pension sometime on or after his age 67 (now 68) which would also be around £8,500. Its unlikely, given that Mr Hs DB 
scheme benefits were relatively modest, that these two alone would have met all of his 
retirement income needs. But they could have formed a core guaranteed income for Mr H 
which it was reasonable to assume that he would need. And, given that membership of DB 
schemes offering guaranteed and safeguarded benefits are fairly uncommon these days, 
these were likely to be how two only guaranteed sources of income. Any other pension Mr H 
contributed to was likely to be subject to the volatilities of the investment markets. 
Mr H essentially gave this up on the basis that the funds could be placed in a SIPP. This 
would give him a pot of money that he could withdraw from as and when he wanted or 
needed to. And Acumen felt this would have better met his needs. Ive thought about 
whether he really needed to do this to gain flexibility. 
Mr H was a member of his employers new DC scheme. 16% of his salary was being placed 
into this and he had a very long time to build up a fund of money. And even if Mr H changed 
employers, it would be a reasonable assumption that any future benefits he would accrue 
would be based on a similar arrangement. So, the most likely scenario here would be that 
Mr H would have a fund that would give him the flexibility that Acumen said he wanted. 
Given Mr Hs situation at the time of advice, it was a reasonable assumption that he would 
build up the benefits and have flexible access to those that the transfer would have given 
him in any event. So, I dont think it was in his best interest to give up his DB scheme 
benefits for this reason. Particularly as this was likely to lead to him receiving much lower 
retirement benefits, as Acumen said. 
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr H had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr H 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £6,666 per year from the PPF. This was lower than 
the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was so substantially 
lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, 
Mr H wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable. So, I 
still think Mr H couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead 
and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Essentially, Mr H was only 26 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr H had around 35 years before it was likely he 
would think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision 
about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr H to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. If Mr H had opted into the BSPS2 and later had reason to transfer out  
he could have done so closer to retirement.
I dont think the advice to transfer for this reason was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Death benefits
Another of the reasons the transfer was recommended was because Mr H was attracted to 
the lump sum death benefits that a personal pension could offer. The advice was given on 
the basis that these were greater than the DB scheme benefits. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr H. I understand he wasnt married but the suitability letter does refer to his partner also being able to benefit from the 
DB scheme benefits. And he may have married in the future. So, its relevant to consider 
them. 
I appreciate the death benefits were important to Mr H, and he might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. But the priority 
here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Acumen explored to 
what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
had a partner and a young child and so the dependents pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr H predeceased them. I dont think 
Acumen made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Acumen should not have encouraged Mr 
H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner and child, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Acumen shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that insurance 
was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and the 
point of sale documentation shows that he had some concerns about the PPF. There was 
some negative commentary at the time about the PPF and he said he preferred to have 
control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Acumens obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr H through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Hs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr H through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Acumen recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.It seems to me that Mr Hs stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Hs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr H was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had Acumen explained that Mr Hs belief 
regarding the control Mr Hs employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would 
have been reassured by this.
Suitability of investments
Acumen recommended that Mr H invest in a range of funds that it said matched his attitude 
to risk. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments in these funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But 
Acumen wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a SIPP Mr H was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at age 65. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a SIPP now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr H had around 35 years before 
he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr H wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
And the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr H chose to do so). The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think Acumen shouldve advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
Acumen says that regardless of the advice given, Mr H made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. And it believes Mr H wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that Acumen disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr H to 
transfer out, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Acumens advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for all of his retirement provision so far. So, if Acumen had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs fear about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Acumen had 
explained Mr H was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
Im aware that in some communications with Acumen Mr H appeared motivated to get the 
transfer out completed. But Mr H had received advice from Acumen that he should transfer 
out of the DB scheme. So, I think his words have to be considered in that context. It isnt 
reasonable to assume that hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt into 
the BSPS2. So, I dont think this demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
The transfer of the current value of Mr Hs DC scheme benefits
As Ive outlined above the value of Mr Hs DC pension was also transferred at the same time 
as his BSPS benefits.
As far as I can see Acumen didnt document the reasons why it did this. It seemed to just 
form part of the process that took place when Mr H transferred his DB scheme benefits. 
Clearly this isnt right, whilst the DC scheme had a modest value Acumen should have 
documented this advice fully and provide a rationale why it was suitable for Mr H. And in the 
absence of this, and any obvious reasons from Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think this 
transfer was suitable for him. Acumen should have advised Mr H to leave the benefits in the 
DC scheme. And Im satisfied that this is what he would have done if Acumen had properly 
advised him about this. 
Lastly, our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr H £300 for the distress 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr H has been caused distress and 
concern in relation to his retirement planning. And he said that the loss of his guaranteed 
pension benefits, and the uncertainty he now faces, has caused him significant stress and 
anxiety. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. And 
so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr H as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Acumen had given him suitable advice. I think Mr H would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think he would not have transferred the current value of his existing DC 
arrangements to the new scheme. 
What should Acumen do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Acumen must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
fair value  step one
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If 
Acumen does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision 
department of the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS 
calculator output should be sent to Mr H and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Acumen based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my decision. 
fair value  step two
Acumen must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Hs DC 
scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the SIPPStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value of 
original 
pension 
plans to be 
obtained 
from the DC 
scheme Mr H 
transferred 
from. Date of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment outof the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Acumen totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should: 
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that: 
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension 
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that Mr Hs would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I've thought about Mr H's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr H would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr H 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr H for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
In the event that it isnt possible to obtain any notional value from the provider(s) involved 
Acumen should compare Mr H current fund vale with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. 
This is a suitable method of compensation for the DC part of the transfer because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
Acumen should also pay Mr H £300 for the distress the poor advice caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman