DRN-1193546
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that her credit card issued by Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, did not work while she was abroad.
What happened
When Miss P took out a credit card with Barclaycard she said that she wanted to use it while 
she was abroad. When she received the card, she activated it online.
Miss P went abroad on holiday shortly afterwards. She took a small amount of cash with her 
as she expected to be able to pay for most things on her credit card. However, when she 
went to pay for her hotel on the first night, the card was declined.
Miss P was unable to use her phone to contact Barclaycard. She therefore contacted her 
mother in the UK, who then contacted Barclaycard. Barclaycard was unable to discuss Miss 
Ps account with Miss Ps mother. However, Barclaycard advised that there was a problem 
with newly issued credit cards, which would take at least a week to fix.
As a result, Miss Ps mother paid the hotel bill. The stress caused by not being able to use 
the credit card meant that Miss P didnt enjoy her holiday and she was was unable to do all 
of the activities she had planned.
Miss P complained to Barclaycard. It said that the problem wasnt due to the problem 
affecting newly issued cards. Instead it was because of a security block on the card not 
being removed when Miss P activated the card online. The complaint handler was unable to 
explain why this had happened. She said that although Miss P couldnt call Barclaycard, 
there were a number of ways to get in touch and it could then have called her. It credited 
£100 to Miss Ps account for the inconvenience caused and £25 for the card not being 
activated.
Miss P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought 
Barclaycard had dealt with the complaint fairly.
As Miss P did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this was a distressing time for Miss P and that not having access to 
her credit card affected her holiday.
Thinking about the issues in this case, the first is about contacting Barclaycard. Miss P said 
that she was unable to do this because she only had a work phone with her. Her work didnt 
allow her to phone anybody while she was abroad. Her partners phone also had a block on 
it that meant it couldnt be used for phone calls while abroad either. Given this, I can see that 
Miss P felt that she needed to find alternative ways to contact Barclaycard. Miss P says her only option was to send a WhatsApp message to her mother to ask her to 
help. Miss Ps mother phoned Barclaycard. I should note that Barclaycard doesnt have a 
record of the call and so I havent been able to listen to it. I am therefore relying on Miss Ps 
account of what was discussed.  
Miss P said that Barclaycard told Miss Ps mother that it couldnt give her any information. 
Given that Miss Ps mother wasnt the account holder, I think it was reasonable that 
Barclaycard said it couldnt speak to her.
Miss P says that her mother was also told that there was a problem with newly issued credit 
cards, which would take at least a week to resolve. It seems that there was a recorded 
message that said this and she may also have been told this by the call handler at 
Barclaycard. Given that this was an issue for customers at the time, I think it was reasonable 
for Barclaycard to provide this information, even though it couldnt say whether this applied 
in Miss Ps case. It was providing important information for customers about an issue that 
was having a significant impact on some of them. In reality, the only way for Miss P to know 
what the issue was with her account was for her to ask Barclaycard.
Miss P didnt then contact Barclaycard herself. She said that she couldnt contact 
Barclaycard online as she didnt have all of the login details for her account with her. She 
didnt try to phone them because her work didnt allow her to use the phone for calls abroad 
and she asked the hotel if she could use their phone but they said no as it was chargeable. 
Miss P was under the impression that the likely reason the card didnt work was because of 
the wider issue with newly issued Barclaycards. But, I have to then consider whether 
Barclaycard was responsible for giving her that impression  and I dont think it was. The 
recorded message was intended for all customers who might be affected by the issue. The 
real issue here is that Miss Ps mother then relayed this message and Miss P then took it to 
apply to her situation. Thats understandable, but not Barclaycards fault. 
So, while calling Barclaycard would have been at a cost to her, it was for Miss P to decide 
how to approach this situation based on her circumstances. I can understand why she made 
the choices she did here, but impartially  I dont think its fair for Barclaycard to be held 
responsible for this.
Given that Miss P thought that her account was affected by the wider Barclaycard issue, she 
also knew she would be without access to her credit card for several more days. This meant 
that she would potentially need to get money from elsewhere. However, it seems Miss Ps 
mother was unable to send her any money. But again, this wasnt down to Barclaycard. So it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold it responsible for this and how it then impacted Miss Ps 
holiday.
Miss P has also said that Barclaycard should have told her mother that there were other 
ways to get in touch, such as via Facebook. I havent been able to listen to exactly what was 
said in the phone call, so I dont know what Barclaycards understanding of Miss Ps situation 
was. But its difficult for me to see how it could have advised Miss Ps mother any more than 
it did, based on the fact it wasnt talking to its customer  Miss P.
I have looked at Barclaycards website to see what it says to customers who are abroad 
about getting in touch. This gives a phone number to call and also says people can get in 
touch by logging into their online account. I therefore dont think it is obvious that Facebook 
is an option to get in touch in this type of situation. This seems to be advice Barclaycard only 
offered when it responded to Miss Ps complaint. Although it might be helpful that Miss P 
knows this for the future, I can see that it might be frustrating to only be told this after the 
event and add to her upset about what happened.I have also thought about whether the amount of compensation that Barclaycard gave Miss 
P was appropriate. When Barclaycard looked at Miss Ps account, the issue was due to a 
block on her card that hadnt been removed. It accepted it had made a mistake and that this 
affected Miss Ps holiday. Ive thought about this and the wider issues Ive considered above. 
A range of factors contributed to what happened while Miss P was abroad and thinking 
about all of the different issues, I think that the amount offered is appropriate in the 
circumstances for Barclaycards part in this.
I accept that this was a very worrying and upsetting time for Miss P. However, having 
thought about all of the above, I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman