DRN-3846779
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains about the time taken by Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) to process claims under a life insurance policy and a family income plan. 
What happened
Mr J sadly passed away in early February 2022 whilst abroad. Soon after Mrs J on behalf of 
the estate contacted L&G to let them know and start the claims process under the policies. 
The claims took some time to process as L&G required a death certificate confirming the 
cause of death which had to be issued in the country where Mr J passed away. L&G chased 
this several times with the coroners office there before it was eventually received and the 
claims were paid in early September.
Mrs J complained about the time it took to process the claims saying other product providers 
hadnt required the same documentation. L&G said they required the documents under their 
processes. They apologised for any upset and paid Mrs J £100 in compensation. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs J brought the complain to our service saying she would like 
systems put in place so no other widow has to deal with unnecessary stress at a vulnerable 
time. One of our Investigators looked into what happened and whilst appreciating the 
difficulty caused by the time taken to process the claims thought L&G had acted fairly.
Mrs J was disappointed by this saying the documentation she had shouldve been enough to 
process the claim. She didnt feel L&G acted quickly enough so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The prompt processing a of claim is always important and even more so at a time of 
bereavement. So I can understand Mrs Js frustrations at the time it took to receive the claim 
payments from L&G.  
When processing claims businesses like L&G must balance a need for promptness with their 
responsibility to ensure that claims are paid correctly. This means following their policies and 
procedures and obtaining the required documentation. This isnt meant to cast doubt on the 
validity of any claim. So here its not that L&G had any suspicion about the death of Mr J, its 
that they needed a certificate showing the cause of death in order to satisfy the policy 
requirements. 
This isnt a particularly unusual request when looking at claims of this nature. Mrs J has said 
that other product providers didnt have the same requirement and those claims were paid 
quicker. That might be the case for other product providers, but it doesnt mean L&G did 
anything wrong by having that requirement. And its not my place to tell a business what 
policy requirements they are allowed to put in place.
That said, its obvious and understandable the time taken to pay the claim affected Mrs J 
both emotionally and financially, as she has told us, at an already upsetting time. 
Ive looked at what happened to see if L&G did all they could to pay the claim as soon as 
they reasonably could; and I think they did. 
Over the time period of the claim L&G chased the coroners office several times to get the 
certificate the needed. Unfortunately there were delays at the coroners office which isnt 
something I can hold L&G responsible for. L&G did refer the claim to senior underwriters to 
see if it could be processed as an exception without the required certificate, however this 
wasnt possible.  
When L&G received the required certificate the claims were paid promptly. L&G paid Mrs J 
£100 for any inconvenience. Payments like this to representatives of an estate arent 
something our rules allow me to comment on, and I note Mrs J told us compensation wasnt 
her main concern
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied L&G acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing the claims. There were some delays however these were 
outside the control of L&G who processed the claims in a timely manner once they had the 
correct documentation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman