DRN-3844559
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc did not do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
Miss S complains that she was a victim of a scam involving cryptocurrency. She explained 
that she was asked to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company, and then load it onto an online wallet in her own name. Between 5 June 2022 and 
10 June 2022, she made eleven payments to B totalling £3925. Eight of these payments 
were made using a Visa debit card connected to Miss Ss Lloyds account, and three were 
made via online transfer.
The first payment was for £100, and an alert was triggered the following day when Miss S 
tried to make a further payment of £130. During the subsequent call, Lloyds explained that 
cryptocurrency high risk. It also asked Miss S if she was in contact with a third-party and she 
said she wasnt, so the block was lifted.
When Miss S realised shed been the victim of a scam, she contacted the broker, but he 
ended the call. When she contacted Lloyds, is said a chargeback claim would be rejected as 
the cryptocurrency exchanges had provided the service they were required to provide. 
Miss S wasnt satisfied and so she complained to Lloyds, but it maintained its position 
regarding chargeback. For the online transfers, it said it had used the principles under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) to assess whether a refund was appropriate, but 
it had concluded the code didnt apply because the payments were paid to an account in her 
own name. Finally, Lloyds didnt accept there had been any failings in the customer service 
Miss S had received. And it said the faster payments were of low value when compared to 
Miss Ss usual account activity, so it didn't intervene.
Miss S complained to this service, suggesting Lloyds should be able to refund her under the 
CRM Code.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the CRM code doesnt 
cover debit card payments or faster payments sent to a customers own account. And a 
chargeback would be unsuccessful as Miss S received the service she paid for. 
He didnt think the initial £100 payment was unusual considering Miss Ss normal account 
and payments activity. He considered her bank statements dating back to 9 April 2021 and 
noted she regularly made transactions of that amount or higher. And as she didnt speak to 
or interact with Lloyds staff at the time of the payment, he didnt think Lloyds had missed an 
opportunity to identify the payment was being made in relation to a scam.
Our investigator also noted the second debit card payment had been blocked, but the block 
was lifted after a call, in which Miss S said there was no third-party involved, and he was 
satisfied that was fair. He explained the transaction was discussed and Miss S had gone 
ahead with the payment, despite warnings and questioning from Lloyds. Finally, he 
considered whether this was a case where Lloyds should have refused to put the payment or 
future payments through, but he didnt think it was.
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Shes questioned 
how she was supposed to know the broker was operating a scam and why Lloyds couldnt 
have stopped the payments once shed reported the scam. She said she received genuine-
looking emails and money from the scammer, and shed been led to believe the bank could 
help her to get her money back. Finally, she accepts she was told about the risks of trading, 
but she wasnt trading in cryptocurrency, she simply transferred bitcoin to the scammer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator was satisfied this was a scam, but I dont intend to make a finding on that 
because either way, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to hear that Miss S has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she feels strongly about this complaint and this will 
come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss S says shes fallen victim to. But 
Lloyds said the CRM code didnt apply to the online payments because the payments were 
all made to an account in Miss Ss own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover Miss Ss payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Her own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency 
exchanges to facilitate the transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the 
merchant that received the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency 
exchanges would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, 
in exchange for Miss Ss payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to 
the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied 
that Lloydss decision not to raise a chargeback request was fair.
Prevention
Im satisfied Miss S authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to prevent Miss Ss loss. Buying 
cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments were 
made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, Lloyds had an obligation to 
be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of what Miss S says was a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss S when she 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Lloyds to intervene with a view to protecting Miss S from financial harm due to fraud. The payments didnt trigger fraud warnings on Lloyds systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Miss S 
normally ran her account and I dont think they were. All the payments were to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange companies, none one of them were for particularly large amounts, 
nor were they out of character for the usual spending on the account. So, I dont think Lloyds 
missed an opportunity to intervene.
On 6 June 2021, Miss S tried to make a payment of £130 and in the call that followed, she 
confirmed the payment was genuine and denied the involvement of a third-party. When she 
asked the call handler why her card had been blocked, Lloyds told her about the number of 
scams they see related to cryptocurrency and yet, notwithstanding this warnings, Miss S 
went ahead with that and subsequent payments.
Im satisfied that, even though the payments werent unusual or suspicious, Lloyds did more 
than seek to confirm the transaction was genuine and warned her about the possibility that 
this could be a scam. Unfortunately, not only did Miss S fail to disclose the involvement of 
the scammer, she chose not to heed Lloyds warning about the risk of fraud.  
In these circumstances and overall, Im satisfied Lloyds took the correct steps prior to the 
funds being released  as well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. 
Im sorry to hear Miss S has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman