DRN-4424060
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that the HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) will not refund the money he lost as 
the result of a scam. 
Mr G has used a representative to bring his complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer 
solely to Mr G throughout this decision. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. 
Mr G was messaged via WhatsApp by a scammer I will call B. After a short period of time B 
started mentioning that she made money trading crypto on a platform. Mr G was persuaded 
to make the following payments to a crypto exchange via a combination of debit card 
payments and faster payments. The funds were then sent on to scammers.
Transaction 
Number Date AmountMethod of 
PaymentMerchant / 
Payee
1 11-Apr-22 £4,851.70 Visa Debit card Crypto.com
2 11-Apr-22 £5,254.80 Visa Debit card Crypto.com
3 25-Apr-22 £12,727.07 Visa Debit card Crypto.com
4 27-Apr-22 £15,477.29 Visa Debit card Crypto.com
5 28-Apr-22 £3,200 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
6 29-Apr-22 £7,841.82 Visa Debit cardCRO Saint 
Julians
7 02-May-22 £7,100 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
8 03-May-22 £1,006.03 Visa Debit card Crypto.com
9 03-May-22 £10,320.26 Visa Debit cardCRO Saint 
Julians
10 03-May-22 £7,700 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
11 04-May-22 £2,500 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
12 04-May-22 £500 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
13 05-May-22 £1,500 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
14 06-May-22 £2,550 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
15 06-May-22 £200 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
16 07-May-22 £1,200 Faster PaymentForis DaxMT 
Limited
Mr G asked to withdraw part of his investment returns. He was told that he would need to 
pay a fee for taxes, after some back and forth Mr G realised that he had been scammed.
Our investigator upheld this complaint because she said that payment two should have been 
considered out of character for Mr Gs account and HSBC should have intervened at this 
point. She also eventually felt that had an intervention occurred at that point then the scam 
would have been stopped and therefore HSBC should refund Mr G the money he lost from 
transaction 2. She also felt that Mr G was partially responsible for his own loss, so she 
recommended a 50% reduction in the refund he was due.
HSBC did not agree and therefore the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
HSBC says it does not think it needed to intervene and doubted that an intervention would 
have uncovered that Mr G was being scammed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr G made and authorised the payments. Mr G knew who he was 
paying, and the reason why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed he 
was transferring funds to invest in cryptocurrency. I dont dispute Mr G was scammed and he 
wasnt making payments for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that HSBC has an obligation to follow Mr Gs instructions. So, in the first 
instance Mr G is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
faster payments were to an account in Mr Gs name the principles of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that HSBC should have
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
I think HSBC should be liable for payments 2 to 16. Ill explain why.
Payments 1 
There is a balance to be struck. Banks and building societies have obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. In this instance whilst payment 1 was a large payment to a 
crypto exchange Mr G had made payments to exchanges before albeit smaller sums. He 
had also made large transactions in the past. So overall I dont think that HSBC needed to 
intervene during this transaction.
Payment 2
I think HSBC ought to have carried out further checks and spoken to Mr G before processing 
this transaction. It was higher than the first payment, and represented, combined with 
payment 1, over 10,000 to a crypto exchange in one day.
I note that HSBC have highlighted that Mr G had sent money to crypto exchanges in the past 
and had even made multiple payments in one day to crypto exchanges. That said the 
payment were small in comparison with payments one and two.
HSBC is aware of the typical patterns of scams like this  that customers often move money 
onto a crypto account in their own name before moving it on again to scammers; and that 
scams like this commonly take place with multiple payments. I think the large increase in the 
amount that Mr G was sending coupled with the two payments being on the same day 
should have prompted HSBC to question what the payment was for.
I also appreciate that Mr Gs loss didnt materialise directly from his HSBC account in these 
circumstances. But even though he was transferring funds to a crypto account in his own 
name, I still think that HSBC ought to have taken a closer look at payment 2  given the 
significant risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Mr G started making his investments in April 2022, it is reasonable to say HSBC ought 
to have had a good enough understanding of how crypto scams works  including the fact 
that their customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on 
again to the fraudster.
Therefore, Im satisfied that HSBC shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent 
this type of fraud at the time Mr G was making this payment, and that it should have led to it 
intervening to ask further questions about payment 2.I note that Mr G had made larger transactions to a different bank in the months prior to the 
scam and HSBC have argued that this means that transaction 2 was not unusual. But I am 
mindful that the transactions highlighted differed to one to a crypto exchange as it was sent 
to a bank so I dont think that this means that making a series of large transactions to a 
crypto exchange would seem like normal activity. So taken together they are sufficiently 
different than the payment highlighted by HSBC that by the time of the second transaction I 
think that it should have been clear that this was unusual for Mr G and had the hallmarks of 
a scam.
I would expect HSBC to have intervened and asked Mr G who the payment was for, what it 
was for, and for the context surrounding  the payment - it could, for example have, asked 
how he had been contacted, whether hed parted with personal details in order to open a 
trading account, whether he was being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, and how he 
had come across the investment in this case via an unsolicited WhatsApp message .
I have no reason to believe Mr G wouldnt have been open with HSBC, and I think he would 
have taken its intervention seriously. So, I think HSBC would have quickly learned from its 
conversation with Mr G the basic background to the payment instruction  that he was 
buying cryptocurrency which was sent onto what he thought was a cryptocurrency type 
trading investment which hed decided to pursue after learning about it via a person he had 
not met and who had contacted him in an unsolicited manner. 
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Mr Gs own 
cryptocurrency account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt 
have stopped there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe 
and within Mr Gs control. This is because by 2022 HSBC was well aware  or ought to have 
been well aware  of how scams like this work  including that the customer often moves 
money onto an account in their own name before moving it on again to scammers. 
So, I think HSBC would have been concerned by what the conversation would most likely 
have revealed and so warned Mr G, explaining the typical characteristics of scams like this. 
Had it done so I think Mr G would have listened and recognised he was at risk. I am satisfied 
he would have had second thoughts if HSBC had intervened effectively given that a warning 
would be coming from his trusted bank. 
It follows I think Mr G would not have gone ahead with payment 2, nor any subsequent 
payments.
Ive considered carefully whether Mr G should hold some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. Firstly, I am aware that Mr G took out a number of loans in order to 
fund his investment. HSBC have provided copies of Mr Gs loan application that he applied 
for in April 2022 and it states that the loan purpose was for home improvements. Mr G has 
said that he did not say this and that when he took out other loans with different financial 
institutions he was not asked about the loan purpose. 
I dont find this explanation plausible as it is my experience that financial institutions 
generally do ask for the purpose of a loan as it helps determine the risk of the loan and the 
appropriate term so I am satisfied albeit on balance that he would have had to declare the 
purpose of these loans. I am also satisfied that he would not have mentioned that he was 
intending to use the funds for crypto trading as they likely would not have been approved for 
that purpose. So overall on balance I think it likely that Mr G misled the firms that he took out 
loans with and had he not done so the loans would not have been approved so I think he 
contributed to his own loss.I also note that Mr G had found out about B from someone who he had never met in person 
and had only known for a few weeks and on her advice parted with over £80,000 in under 4 
weeks, without receiving any substantial returns.
So overall and having considered everything I think that Mr G contributed to his own loss 
and therefore I currently feel that it would be appropriate to reduce the amount of 
compensation due to Mr G by 50%.
I have also considered whether HSBC could have recovered the funds for Mr G via other 
means. As already explained the CRM does not apply to payments made to accounts held in 
a consumers own name so the faster payments could not be recovered. In relation to the 
debit card payments a chargeback would not have been successful as the payments were 
made to purchase crypto and that it what was provided so he essentially got what he paid 
for. I dont think that there were any other means for the funds to have been recovered.
Finally, HSBC have raised concerns that some of the money that Mr G sent to B came from 
a number of different people transferring funds to his account. Mr G has explained that these 
were loans from friends which he has since paid back. I think that this is a reasonable 
explanation so I dont think it affects the outcome of this complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC will have to
Refund 50% of transactions 2 to 16, minus anything already refunded or paid back by 
B, my understanding is that this amounts to £10
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on these transactions from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement less any appropriate tax
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) to pay the redress 
outlined above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman