DRN-1506017
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999.
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 1999 in connection with a credit card. Mr C says PPI wasnt offered 
or explained so it was added to his account without his knowledge. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint because:
           I think Bank of Scotland made Mr C aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI 
on the application form which he signed and dated.  So I think he chose to take it.  
           Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C, and it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because he was 
eligible for the policy, it seems affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the things the 
policy did not cover (the exclusions) and the self-employment clause which wasnt onerous.
           Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks 
like the policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive taken into 
account Mr Cs comments, including what he said about the PPI not being described or 
mentioned to him.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman