DRN-3578742
The complaint
The estate of Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) mis-sold Mr R an annuity. 
The estates representative feels that if Mr R had been made fully aware of all the options 
available to him, given his health issues and the fact that he was a heavy smoker, he 
wouldve received more income.
SW issued final response letters on this complaint and havent queried whether the 
complaint is out of time under the Dispute resolution rules. So Ive considered the complaint. 
The estate of Mr R is represented by Mr Rs son.
What happened
The complaint is about Mr Rs purchase of an annuity from SW with the proceeds of his 
personal pension plan held with SW in January 2012. 
SW sent Mr R a retirement pack on 5 August 2011, in advance of his selected retirement 
date in January 2012. The letter included a number of documents intended to help Mr R 
decide on the best option for him. These included, amongst other things, a Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) factsheet entitled Your pension - its time to choose. This 
explained what annuities were and also covered enhanced and impaired life options. A Key 
Features Document was also included. This explained the aims and risks of an annuity. And 
told Mr R that he could look into other options or quotes with either SW or another provider. 
The 5 August 2011 letter said in a highlighted box on the front page: 
You can choose to buy your annuity from us, but you dont have to and you should consider 
shopping around. This is known as the Open Market Option (OMO)
The Your pension - its time to choose document also explained Mr R had the right to shop 
around for the best deal and that he didnt have to buy an annuity from SW. The letter also 
explained that Mr R could delay his retirement, or take options other than buying an annuity.
The information SW sent Mr R contained information about enhanced annuities. These pay 
a higher than normal income if the customers health and lifestyle are deemed to impact life 
expectancy. SW said that at the time Mr R bought his annuity, they didnt offer enhanced 
annuities. So there were no specific health questions listed on Mr Rs retirement application 
form. But they said that the information theyd sent explained that some companies offered 
enhanced annuities. And explained that he should shop around to find out if there were 
better alternatives available elsewhere.
SW sent a chaser letter on 9 November 2011. They enclosed a further copy of the FSA 
factsheet with this. This letter also contained a section about choosing the type of annuity to 
buy, depending on personal circumstances such as health and lifestyle. A standard annuity 
quotation was provided. But it was noted that other options were available. And that Mr R 
should discuss these with his financial adviser.
In a completed from signed on 14 November 2011, Mr R chose to take the maximum tax-
free cash. He also ticked the box: I want to take tax free cash and buy an annuity from 
another company. The form stated that he would need to complete further sections of the 
form to do this, but he didnt complete all of them. 
On 30 November 2011 Mr R wrote to SW after theyd contacted him about his choice. He 
confirmed that he wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash lump sum and buy the annuity 
from SW. And requested that SW organise payment for January 2012.
Mr R completed a further SW form in January 2012 in which he confirmed that he wanted his 
benefits to be taken as a standard single life annuity, with a five-year guarantee, purchased 
from SW. And a tax-free cash sum of £6,408.10. And that his annual pension would be 
£1,025.88, paid monthly in advance. He completed the declaration in this form which 
confirmed hed received financial advice. The pension started in January 2012.
Mr R sadly died in September 2019. His son looked into his finances after his death. And 
complained to SW on 1 February 2020 as he felt that the pension plan, and the annuity, had 
been mis-sold. He felt his father hadnt fully understand his options given his poor health and 
unhealthy lifestyle. And wanted SW to review the annuity and provide fair compensation for 
the mis-sale. 
SW issued their first final response letter on 6 February 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said Mr R didnt take any financial advice from an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) prior to taking out the annuity. And that SW didnt advise him. They said hed 
set up the annuity on a non-advised basis. SW said that Mr R had indicated hed spoken 
with an IFA on his retirement form but that there was nothing on their records to indicate this. 
They also said that their letter which had confirmed the details of the annuity had also stated 
that no commission had been paid to an IFA. SW said theyd provided Mr R with information 
which wouldve guided him to make the right choice, based on his own circumstances. And 
that hed confirmed hed received the information. 
SW felt any issues about the mis-sale of the pension plan should be raised with Mr Rs IFA 
at the time of the sale, as they said the pension plan had been sold through them. They said 
theyd forwarded the complaint directly to the IFA, who would contact Mr Rs son. 
The IFA issued their final response to Mr Rs son on 29 April 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They felt that as the sale of the personal pension plan had taken place in 2006, 
and the annuity had been purchased in 2012, the complaint had been brought out of time 
under the Dispute resolution rules.
Mr Rs son wrote to SW again on 3 August 2020 as he didnt agree with their final response.
He didnt think his father had been made fully aware of his annuity options regarding his 
health. He didnt consider that his attitude to risk or his health had been assessed before he 
took out the annuity. He felt that if questions about his existing medical conditions had been 
asked he wouldve bought an enhanced annuity. He also said that his father had a poor track 
record with his finances. He didnt think that SW had treated his father fairly when they sold 
him the annuity. And felt that SW should calculate the amount hed missed out on, plus 
interest, if hed been sold the right type of annuity. He also wanted compensation for the mis-
sale. 
SW issued their second final response letter on 11 August 2020. They reviewed the further 
issues Mr Rs son had raised but didnt uphold the complaint. They said they hadnt offered 
enhanced annuities at the time the annuity was purchased. So they didnt need to get any medical evidence. And that Mr R had been given all of the available options. This included 
telling him to take financial advice from an IFA and to shop around with other companies if 
they could provide him with a better annuity. SW said Mr R hadnt taken financial advice and 
that they werent allowed to give advice. As theyd provided Mr R with clear information 
about his options, they didnt agree that Mr R had been treated unfairly. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Rs son brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr R had been 
given sufficient clear information about his retirement options. He felt that SW had done what 
they were expected to do  which was to provide clear information and to act on the 
instructions of the customer. He said that as SW had provided documentation which 
suggested that the annuity sale was a non-advised annuity purchase, he considered that SW 
had no case to answer. Our investigator suggested that the IFA named on the annuity 
application form may have a case to answer.
Mr Rs son confirmed to this service that the named IFA had told him that the annuity 
purchase wasnt a guided purchase by them. So he felt that SW must have some 
responsibility for what he felt was the uninformed decision to buy the annuity his father had 
made. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
This complaint is a mis-sale complaint about SW. However, SW have provided evidence that 
they did not, and could not, provide advice to Mr R at the time of his decision to purchase the 
annuity. 
I acknowledge that Mr Rs son doesnt consider that SW did enough to ask Mr R the right 
questions about his health, attitude to risk and affordability before he bought his annuity from 
them. He thinks that his father wouldve only looked at the quickest way to access the 
benefits from his pension plan. And that as his father had a poor track record with financial 
decision making he wouldnt have fully understood the annuity hed chosen. But there was 
no advisory relationship between SW and Mr R. And there was no requirement for them to 
ask questions about these issues. If they had asked such questions, they still wouldnt have 
been able to provide Mr R with advice about the annuity he should purchase. The 
documentation SW provided included warnings and recommendations that he could take 
advice from an IFA. So if Mr R had felt that he didnt understand the options available to him, 
he should have sought advice.
SW have also confirmed that they didnt offer enhanced annuities at the time Mr R bought 
his annuity. So while I acknowledge why Mr R considers that his father wouldve been better 
off had he purchased an enhanced annuity, given his health conditions and lifestyle choices, 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold SW responsible for not asking Mr R about his health 
and lifestyle. 
The evidence shows that SW provided clear information about how Mr Rs personal 
circumstances may enable him to seek out a better option elsewhere. And this is all I wouldve expected them to do under the circumstances. It also shows that SW gave Mr R 
the FSA Factsheet which covered his options and had a clear guide to help less financially 
aware consumers to choose the right retirement option for them.
I understand that Mr Rs son doesnt believe that SW took appropriate steps to ensure that 
Mr R was fully informed. And feels that this led to his father choosing an unsuitable annuity. 
He doesnt consider that simply providing relevant information is enough under the 
circumstances. I also acknowledge that Mr Rs son feels that either SW or the IFA his father 
referenced on the annuity application form must be held responsible for what he considers to 
be the mis-sale of the annuity. Mr Rs son has also told this service that another provider 
through which Mr R purchased an annuity has upheld a similar complaint. 
I cant comment on the other providers decision to uphold a similar complaint, as I dont 
have any of the details. I can only comment on SWs role in the sale of this annuity. 
Mr Rs son has expressed his concern that his father was allowed to take out an annuity that 
he felt was unsuitable for him. And has questioned how it is possible to confirm that neither 
SW nor the IFA referenced on the annuity application form gave no advice on the annuity 
purchase. He felt it was strange that his father didnt receive advice from anywhere. And 
considered that he must have been directed to purchase the annuity by someone.
Ive carefully considered Mr Rs sons concerns. But the evidence shows that this was a non-
advised annuity purchase, which is relatively common. SW paid no commission to any IFA. 
SW didnt and couldnt provide advice. All they could do was provide Mr R with information 
about all of the options open to him. From what Ive seen, they did this. Without any 
evidence that SW provided advice on the annuity purchase, I cant reasonably say that SW 
did anything wrong. And I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman