DRN-4307310
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase gave him inaccurate 
information when he enquired about switching his current account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In March 2023 Mr P was considering switching his current account from Chase to 
another bank in order to benefit from a £175 switching incentive. He proceeded only after 
checking with Chase that he could switch his current account, but retain his savings 
account along with the existing rate of interest. Chase said he could, so Mr P instigated 
the switch. He was then told the switch hadnt been possible because he had an open 
savings account, and he couldnt keep this if he didnt also have a spending/current 
account. When he further queried the position he was given information which 
subsequently turned out to be inaccurate.
Chase accepted that it had misled Mr P on more than one occasion. It paid £30 
compensation into his account by way of an apology. And, after Mr P referred his 
complaint to this service, it offered to pay a further £30 compensation. 
Our investigator thought Chase had done enough to put things right. But Mr P disagreed, 
so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons.
Mr P says he opened the account with the other bank but had to close it when the switch 
couldnt go through. He thinks this will have had a negative impact on his credit rating. But 
he hasnt provided any evidence which shows this. And in my experience opening a new 
bank account, in and of itself, wont usually negatively affect an individuals credit rating. 
I am aware there are now, and have been, other current accounts switching incentives 
available which mirror the reward Mr P was seeking to obtain in March 2023. In fact, I 
understand the same bank he was looking to switch to in March 2023 was offering a £150 
switching incentive (just £25 less than in March 2023) in July 2023. But he doesnt appear to 
have taken up this or any other switching opportunities. It seems to me, more likely than not, 
that Mr P doesnt want to relinquish his Chase savings account. I assume this is because of 
the preferential interest rate it pays and easy access it affords. So if the position had been 
accurately conveyed to him when he originally asked about being able to switch his current 
account and retain his savings account, I dont think Mr P would have proceeded with the 
switch. That means he wouldnt have received the £175 switching incentive and so I cant 
fairly instruct Chase to pay that to him now.
However, its not in dispute that Chase misinformed Mr P on more than one occasion. It has 
accepted this and now offered to pay a total of £60 compensation to him to recognise any 
distress and/or inconvenience caused. In all the circumstances I consider that to be a fair 
and reasonable award.
My final decision
My final decision is that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase should pay £30 to 
Mr P. It should do so within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr P accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman