DRN-3045519
The complaint
Ms H complains that TSB Bank plc failed to update her name and address when shed 
asked them to do so.  
What happened
In October 2018 Ms H notified TSB that her address had changed, and that shed reverted to 
using her maiden name. She later complained that theyd continued sending her account 
statements to her previous address. TSB sent a final response to this complaint, dated 8 
June 2020, assuring Ms H that theyd update their records. 
Ms H says TSB carried on sending correspondence to her previous address. She sent them 
another letter of complaint on 5 August 2020. She says she rang TSB the following month, 
again asking them to update their records. But in December 2020, she says she received a 
new credit card from TSB via the postal redirection service that shed put in place. She says 
she cut this card up, because it had been issued in the wrong name. She wrote to TSB again 
on 10 March 2021. Having received no response, Ms H asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think she could look into things that happened before TSBs final 
response letter dated 8 June 2020, because Ms H hadnt referred her complaint to our 
service within six months of that letter being sent. But as TSB accepted that theyd failed to 
update their records in response to that complaint, the investigator looked at whether they 
should do more to put things right. She recommended that they should:
1) Update Ms Hs records with her correct name and address and confirm this to her in 
writing;
2) Provide Ms H with copies of the last 12 monthly account statements;
3) Pay Ms H £150 to compensate her for the trouble and upset caused.
TSB accepted our investigators view. But Ms H remained unhappy that they hadnt provided 
an explanation of why the changes werent made in June 2020  or why she hadnt received 
any response to any of her calls or correspondence since that date. She also felt she should 
be reimbursed for the cost of redirecting her post, because shed only needed to set this up 
due to TSBs error. She asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules about what this service can and 
cant consider. Under these rules, Im unable to consider a complaint that was referred to our 
service more than six months after the date on which the business sent its final response to 
the customer. 
TSB issued its final response to Ms Hs original complaint on 8 June 2020. Ive seen that 
TSB paid her £150 compensation, as well as promising to put things right. Their letter 
explains that, if Ms H wished to refer the matter to our service, she must do so within six 
months of the date of that letter. This means Ms H had until 8 December 2020 to refer a 
complaint to our service about the matters dealt with in that letter.  As Ms H didnt contact us 
about her complaint until 24 May 2021, Im unable to look into the events that took place 
before 8 June 2020.
But TSB have accepted that they failed to update their records after this date. So, I can 
consider the effect this ongoing problem has had on Ms H since 8 June 2020. Ive given 
careful thought to what shes told us about the impact this has had on her. 
Ms H told us that she had a postal redirection service in place for three years after she 
moved to her new address. With this in mind, Im not sure why she didnt receive any 
account statements that were sent to her previous address. And I havent seen any evidence 
that she missed payments, or incurred charges on her account as a result of her statements 
being addressed incorrectly.
  
Ms H told us that she feels concerned about other people having access to her account 
details, as this could leave her open to fraud. Its not our role to decide whether businesses 
have breached data protection rules  thats a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office. Instead, I need to consider the impact TSBs error has had on Ms H. Fortunately, in 
this case the people Ms H sold her house to let her know that theyd received her 
correspondence.
Ms H has described having her card refused when she was attempting to pay for goods 
because the account billing address didnt match, which she found embarrassing. Shes also 
told us that she was unable to use her credit card at all after December 2020, because her 
new card was issued in the wrong name. Having reviewed her account statements, I can see 
that she didnt make any further purchases using her credit card after 31 December 2020. I 
can appreciate how frustrating this situation must have been for her.
Ive seen copies of the letters Ms H sent TSB on 5 August 2020 and 10 March 2021. And 
Ive listened to the recording of the call she made to them on 12 September 2020. Due to the 
poor quality of that recording, much of the conversation is inaudible. But I can hear that Ms H 
was again asking TSB to update their records. Shes told us that TSBs errors werent 
corrected until September 2021, when they sent her a new card and statement using her 
correct name and address. I can see that this situation has been frustrating and inconvenient 
for Ms H  and that shes had some trouble getting things put right. I can also understand 
that the lack of explanation as to how or why this happened has increased her frustration.
I accept that TSBs error may have contributed to Ms Hs decision to extend her postal 
redirection service for another year  and I appreciate that she feels TSB should reimburse 
her for this. But I think it most likely that the redirection service provided a wider benefit to 
Ms H by making sure she received all her correspondence at her new address. I consider 
£150 to be fair and reasonable compensation for the frustration, inconvenience and trouble 
Ms H has been put to as a result of TSBs ongoing failure to update their records after 8 
June 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank PLC to pay 
Ms H £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Corinne BrownOmbudsman