DRN-2822928
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about the service provided by British Gas Services Limited (BG) under a 
boiler service contract.
What happened
In 2018 Mr B bought Homecare insurance through British Gas. The policy was renewed 
twice over the following years. Under the terms of the contract Mr Bs boiler should have 
been initially assessed  and then serviced annually and/or repaired if necessary.
In 2020 the boiler broke down and on 7 October a BG engineer said the fault meant the 
boiler had to be condemned. Mr B had to pay for a new boiler. He complained to BG, saying 
that his boiler had never been properly inspected or serviced since he bought the policy in 
2018.
BG acknowledged that it had known a BG engineer was needed to inspect or service the 
type of boiler Mr B had, as Mr B had told them the make and model. Instead of sending the 
appropriate engineer it instead sent a contractor  at least twice  who couldnt work on this 
type of boiler.
BG said that, as it hadnt provided any of the checks and servicing/repairs it also didnt know 
when the fault with Mr Bs boiler initially occurred. So it said it would refund him his 
premiums from the date the policy stared  about £1,123.66  and pay additional 
compensation of £140 for the poor service.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer.
Mr B disagrees  he says finding out the boiler was dangerous caused a great deal of worry 
 and he didnt know how this long had been going on for. He says every time he spoke to 
BG it treated him horrendously and he was told hed have to wait for at least two months 
for a new boiler, despite explaining that he has a vulnerable child with specific medical 
needs.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. That isnt because I dont think BG did anything wrong 
under the insurance contract  but I do think its done enough to compensate Mr B for the 
mistakes it made.
Im not going into all the points raised by Mr B in detail, and instead Ill concentrate on the 
key issues as I understand them.
This what I think happened:
The contract says BG will carry out an initial visit and then an annual service visit. 
Over the time Mr B paid for the contract this would have been at least three visits.
None of these visits were completed successfully: despite BG knowing it needed to 
send one of its own engineers to do the servicing, it kept sending contractors.
In October 2020 the boiler was condemned and switched off at short notice only after 
a fault developed. I understand Mr Bs boiler was decommissioned because of a 
faulty flue, although hed reported a timer issue. Mr B had to pay for a new boiler, 
which was installed about 2 weeks later.
Mr B says this caused a lot of inconvenience, especially given his childs needs, as 
he was told the replacement wouldnt be installed for a couple of months. He says he 
was worried about how long the fault might have been going on for, as it could have 
been dangerous. 
The policy says if the boiler is under seven years old and fails, then BG will replace it. 
We dont know exactly how old the boiler is  but Mr B has told us it was in his house 
when he moved in (in 2018)  and may well have been installed when the house was 
built 20 years ago. 
The policy also says it will cover the flue  up to one meter  and replace it if it cant 
be repaired. We dont know exactly why the boiler was condemned rather than 
having the flue fixed. But I do think its the engineer whos the expert on these things, 
and if he believed the boiler to be unsafe and/or unrepairable, it was reasonable for 
him to prevent further use. 
BG has acknowledged it didnt deal with this policy properly and the service it provided was 
substantially less than it should have been. So Ive thought about whether what its done to 
make up for this is reasonable. I think it is.
Mr B received none of the services he was paying for up to the point where he reported a 
fault. So I think its fair for BG to refund everything he paid for the policy. And I also think the 
compensation it paid on top of this is reasonable. I appreciate Mr B was worried there might 
have been a health risk because of the broken flue and that this could have been going on 
for some time. But I cant ask BG to compensate Mr B for something that might have 
happened, and there is no suggestion that any health problems have been connected to the 
faulty flue. And the BG engineer did de-commission the boiler straight away  so Mr Bs 
mind was put at rest as soon as the problem was identified. 
Mr B says he was inconvenienced by having to wait to have a new boiler installed. I 
appreciate the new boiler was probably installed by BG, but it doesnt appear it was done as 
part of his insurance. I say that because Mr B paid for his new boiler  and from what he told 
us, it doesnt look as though his old boiler would have qualified for replacement under the 
insurance. Thats because it could have been up to 20 years old and the contract didnt 
cover boilers over 7 years old. If BG had replaced the boiler as part of his insurance its 
unlikely it would have refunded the premiums hed paid.
As this complaint is only about the services provided (or not) under the insurance policy, I 
cant ask BG to compensate him for any delays in installing a new boiler, as I dont think that 
wasnt done as part of his insurance. Im glad though, that Mr B got his new boiler within a 
much shorter timeframe.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as British Gas Services Limited has done 
enough to compensate Mr B for its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman