DRN-3489073
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly by providing several unsolicited credit 
limit increases on her credit card accounts.
What happened
Mrs H applied for an Evans credit card with NewDay in March 2015. This was approved with 
a £500 credit limit. Over the next three years her credit limit was increased eight times 
resulting in the credit limit being set at £8,000 in June 2019. Mrs H then applied for a second 
NewDay credit card in August 2019 (Amazon) and this was provided with a credit limit of 
£1,500 which was then increased to £3,000. Mrs H says that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the credit cards were provided and credit limit increases were applied. 
She said she was only making the minimum repayments.
NewDay didnt accept that it had lent irresponsibly. It said that as part of its application 
process for the Evans credit card, Mrs H told it she was employed with a monthly income of 
£3,000 alongside other household income of £1,000. It said she had unsecured debt of 
£23,700 and a mortgage balance of £189,000 and its credit check showed no arrears or 
defaults and so Mrs H was provided with a credit card account with a £500 limit. NewDay 
said it regularly reviewed Mrs Hs account and that credit limit increases were offered, and 
Mrs H could have opted out of the increases, but this didnt happen. Mrs H then applied for 
an Amazon credit card and after checking her income, other household income, unsecured 
debt and mortgage balance Mrs H met its lending criteria and was provided with a credit 
card account with a £1,500 limit. Mrs Hs account was then reviewed and a limit increase to 
£3,000 was offered which Mrs H accepted.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that based on the information 
available NewDay had acted irresponsibly in providing the credit cards or credit limit 
increases.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that NewDay didnt carry out 
adequate checks to ensure she could afford to repay the credit without falling behind on 
existing credit commitments or having to borrow more. She reiterated that she was only 
making minimum repayments and had taken out other credit to ensure she could meet her 
existing commitments. She said that the application for the Evans credit card was completed 
in store by the sales assistant and that she never claimed to have a monthly income of 
£3,000. She said her monthly income was £1,750 and that any benefits were used for 
specific purposes. She said her monthly accommodation costs were £1,100 not the £500 
recorded and that had proper checks taken place NewDay would have seen her income and 
expenses. She says her credit limit was increased every time she neared the limit which 
trapped her in a cycle of debt and that the last few credit limit increases took place after she 
had informed it that she was vulnerable customer.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary: 
Mrs H was provided with a credit card by NewDay in March 2015 with a credit limit of 
£500. I noted Mrs Hs comment about the application being completed by the sales 
assistant, but the application included information about Mrs Hs monthly income and 
expenses and Mrs H had signed this. Therefore, I found it reasonable this information 
was relied on. NewDay carried out a credit check and this didnt raise any concerns. 
Based on the credit limit of £500 I thought the checks carried out were proportionate 
and didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the lending.
The credit limit was increased in May 2016, December 2016 and May 2017 bringing 
the limit to £1,500. While Mrs H was contacted about the limit increases and could 
have opted out, it was NewDays responsibility to ensure the additional lending was 
affordable. I looked through the account information from March 2015 and could see 
that Mrs H was making regular payments and was keeping comfortably within the 
credit limit. Therefore, I didnt find I had enough to say these limit increases were 
irresponsible.
A further limit increase took place in October 2017. This brought the credit limit to 
£2,100 - over four times the initial limit provided. In the two months prior to this 
increase, Mrs H had increased her balance close to the credit limit. This could have 
suggested she was becoming more reliant on the borrowing and I thought it would 
have been reasonable to carry out further checks at this point to ensure further 
lending was affordable. Had this happened, NewDay would have found that Mrs H 
was receiving monthly income of just under £1,500 and had other credit cards that 
she was operating at their limits. As she had increased her use of the card to almost 
its limit and wasnt reducing the debts she had elsewhere, I thought this should have 
raised concerns that providing further credit at this point might not be sustainably 
affordable. Therefore, I didnt think this credit limit increase should have been 
applied.
Further credit limit increases took place in March and August 2018 and January and 
June 2019 bringing the credit limit to £8,000. The affordability data provided by 
NewDay only showed the total debts from July 2018 and this suggested Mrs H had 
around £40,000 of non-mortgage debt at the time. I had nothing to suggest that 
Mrs Hs financial circumstances improved significantly between October 2017 and 
June 2019 and so I didnt think it reasonable that any of these subsequent credit limit 
increases were provided.
After the credit limit increase to £8,000 on Mrs Hs Evans credit card, she applied for 
another credit card with NewDay. I noted the checks that took place, but as Mrs H 
already had a £8,000 limit on her NewDay Evans credit card and had increased her 
spending on this to near the limit the month after the increase and she had around 
£44,000 of other non-mortgage debt, I didnt find it reasonable that this additional 
credit card was provided.
In conclusion I partially uphold this complaint. I didnt think NewDay was responsible to 
provide the credit limit increases from October 2017 onwards on the Evans credit card or 
provide the Amazon credit card.
Mrs H accepted my provisional decision and NewDay didnt provide any further information 
in response to it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out before the Evans credit 
card was provided in 2015 were proportionate and as these didnt raise concerns I do not 
think it was unreasonable for the credit card with a £500 credit limit to be provided. 
Having looked through the information provided, I dont think I have enough to say that 
NewDay was wrong to provide the credit limit increases up to and including May 2017. 
However, I think further checks should have taken place before the credit limit increase took 
place in October 2017. I think that had these checks happened, NewDay would have 
realised that providing this limit increase wasnt responsible. I have nothing to suggest that 
Mrs Hs financial situation improved over the following months and so I do not think the 
further credit limit increases on this credit card should have taken place.
Given Mr Hs £8,000 limit on her Evans credit card and her use of this, I didnt think that 
NewDay should have considered providing a further credit card in August 2019 responsible.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I am upholding this complaint in regard to the credit limit increases on 
Mrs Hs Evans credit card from October 2017 onwards and in regard to her Amazon credit 
card.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in regard to the credit limit increase in October 2017 and subsequent 
increases on Mrs Hs Evans credit card and I do not think that the Amazon credit card should 
have been provided.
To settle this complaint, NewDay Ltd should:
Rework Mrs Hs Evans credit card account removing all interest and charges that 
have been applied to any balance above £1,500 from October 2017. Any refund 
should be applied to reduce Mrs Hs outstanding balance. In the event the refund 
results in an overpayment, this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 8% simple 
interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. 
Refund all interest and charges on Mrs Hs Amazon credit card account. Any refund 
should be applied to reduce Mrs Hs outstanding balance. In the event the refund 
results in an overpayment, Mrs H should be paid 8% simple interest per year 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded about Mrs Hs Evans credit card account 
from October 2017 and any adverse information recorded about Mrs Hs Amazon 
from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, NewDay must give the Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman