DRN-3640135
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D & G) provided her with a 
replacement dishwasher under the terms of her policy which was faulty, and has caused 
damage to her kitchen floor.
 
What happened
Ms S contacted D & G under her policy in December as her dishwasher wasnt working. 
The D & G engineer advised Ms S the dishwasher was beyond economic repair, and she 
was sent a link to order a replacement. She ordered a replacement to include fitting.  
The replacement was delivered and fitted, but a few days later Ms S noticed that her floor 
was wet and lifting.  She disconnected the dishwasher and contacted D & G. 
After some difficulty making contact, an engineer did attend. Ms S says that he advised her 
there was manufacturing defect in the hose which had leaked and caused the issue with the 
floor. 
After several attempts at contacting D & G, Ms S eventually got through in February 2022. 
They accepted that they had provided the new dishwasher but told her that she would need 
to contact the manufacturer as the machine was still covered under warranty.  
Ms S was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Ms Ss complaint and thought D & G had acted 
fairly.    
Ms S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
After the replacement dishwasher was provided by D & G under the terms of the policy, a 
new policy was issued on 14 December 2021. This policy says:
What this policy covers
Breakdown (after the manufacturers guarantee)
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a repair, 
arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee)
Both during and after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, if 
your product suffers accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in good working 
order), we will (at our option) authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a 
replacement product.
It further says:
We shall not be liable for:
damage during delivery, installation or transportation of the product by a
third party who is not our agent; 
any breakdown cost already covered by any manufacturers, suppliers or repairers 
guarantee or warranty on the product;
replacement or recall of the product (or any part) by a supplier or the manufacturer
Although I can appreciate that Ms S thinks her contract is with D & G, as she holds a policy 
with them, the policy is clear that any issues that are covered by a manufacturers warranty 
are excluded from cover. 
As the new dishwasher is less than 12 months old, any manufacturing defects or 
breakdowns would be the responsibility of the manufacturer. If the hole is a manufacturing 
defect as suggested by the D & G engineer, D & G have correctly declined the claim and 
referred Ms S to the manufacturer. 
If, on examination by the manufacturers engineer, the pin hole turns out not to be a 
manufacturing defect but has been caused during installation it would be still be excluded 
from the cover offered by D & G under the policy, and liability would potentially be with the 
agents of the manufacturer or retailer who were responsible for the delivery. 
Either way, Im satisfied that D & G have fairly declined to cover the repair of the dishwasher 
and the restoration of the floor. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Domestic & General Insurance Plc dont 
need to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman