DRN-2001279
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) undervalued his ice-cream van after it 
was declared a total loss when he made a claim on his van insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr Hs van caught fire and was completely destroyed. Mr H made a 
claim on his van insurance policy.
Aviva deemed the van beyond economical repair. It offered a claim settlement of £6,000, 
which it considered to be the market value of the van based on its make and model, age, 
condition and mileage. 
Mr H says a family member bought the van in 2018 for £16,500. He in turn bought the van 
from this family member in August 2019 for £14,500. 
Mr H completely disagrees with Avivas valuation. Hes adamant the value couldnt have 
dropped by so much in such a short period of time. He says Aviva accepted this valuation of 
the van when the policy was first taken out and he cant understand why its being disputed 
now. He says there is a multitude of similar vans on both ebay and Gumtree ranging from 
£13,000 to £17,000.
Mr H says he was told this was an original Whitby Morrison van, which makes it more 
valuable. He says it has a specific castle body shape and the equipment alone in the van is 
worth more than £6,000, never mind the van itself. 
An investigator reviewed this complaint and was satisfied Aviva had settled the claim fairly. 
The investigator said the policy was clear that it would pay no more than the market value of 
the van at the time of the incident. And based on the evidence provided by Aviva and its 
engineer, the valuation was reasonable.
Mr H didn't agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Like most car or van insurance policies, Aviva will pay the market value. The policy defines 
this as the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, model, specification 
and condition. The policy also says, The most we will pay will be the market value of your 
vehicle at the time of the loss. 
The key issue I need to decide is whether Aviva has offered a market value of the van that is 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it's fair and reasonable in the 
all circumstances.
In deciding whether an insurer has offered a fair market value we would normally consider 
valuations from motor trade guides. We generally find them to be more reliable than other 
resources such as adverts. However, in some situations the vehicle cant be found in the 
motor trade guides. And it a situation like this we do take adverts into account, we also 
consider other available evidence; for example, engineers reports or expert analysis.
This van is a specialist van and isnt in the trade guides. So, both parties have provided us 
with advertisements from various websites to support their own case. Mr H has provided 
advertisements of what he says are similar vans from his own local area, ranging in price 
from £17,000 to £18,000. Hes also provided photographs of his own van before it was 
damaged in the fire. And one advertisement in particular stands out as the van is very similar 
to Mr Hs albeit a year younger. It was being advertised at £18,000. Mr H has also provided 
an invoice for £16,500 which he says was the original receipt from the sale in 2018, and a 
photograph of a written receipt for £14,500, which he says supports what he paid for the van 
in 2019.
Aviva has provided an engineers report which places the valuation of the van at £6,000. 
This report is also supported by a number of advertisements which have a price range of 
between £4,000 and £9,000. Aviva has also provided some prices for the equipment 
contained in the van, an original Whitby Morrison drive shaft and a Carpigiani ice-cream 
machine.
Crucially, Aviva has also provided an explanation for the different ranges in prices. Aviva has 
advised Mr Hs ice-cream van isnt a genuine Whitby Morrison van, and even though its very 
similar in shape, make and model, Aviva says it has spoken to Whitby Morrison, who cannot 
find a record of this van on its system. The engineer also says that the trademark plate, 
found on all original Whitby Morrison vans, isnt on this van.
Based in the UK, Whitby Morrison produce bespoke ice cream vans and associated vehicles 
for the global market. They are recognised as the worlds leading manufacturer of ice cream 
vehicles. There are ice-cream vans similar to the Whitby Morrison van out there. But an 
original Whitby Morrison van is considered to be a lot more valuable than similar types of 
ice-cream van that are available on the market.
So, I contacted Whitby Morrison myself. I provided Whitby Morrison with both the registration 
number and the VIN (vehicle identification number). Whitby Morrison conducted a search 
both in its electronic archive and its paper archive, and they couldnt find any records of Mr 
Hs van. Whitby Morrison also pointed out that each individual van produced by its factory 
has a unique identification tag or plate on the body of the van. And Aviva have provided an 
example of this plate. However, the engineer who inspected the van couldnt find this on Mr 
Hs van, and I cant see any evidence of this unique identifier in any of the photographs Mr H 
has provided. So even though Mr H says this van is an authentic Whitby Morrison van, 
theres no evidence to support this. 
Ive also thought carefully about everything Mr H has told us in respect of the condition of the 
van and the equipment contained within. Mr H has provided photos to show us the condition 
of the van. Aviva have also provided photos, albeit after the fire occurred. But the photos are 
markedly different. And even though photos provided by Aviva show us that the van has 
quite clearly suffered from fire damage, there is also clear evidence of corrosion on the 
wheel arches, and the back bumper and tailgate area are showing signs of pre-existing 
damage. So, I dont think the van could be deemed to be in good condition. Mr H has also provided an inventory of the equipment in the van. Hes listed a freezer and 
chiller, a hard ice cream freezer, a Carpigini soft ice cream machine, a Buck Compressor, 64 
Chimes tunes, an E blade beater, an R type pump and shelving. Whilst speaking to Whitby 
Morrison I discussed this equipment and its value separate to the van. And whereas Whitby 
Morrison advised the E blade beater and the pump were expensive, these components are 
an essential part of the soft ice-cream machine and would be considered as standard if you 
were purchasing an ice-cream van. 
So, I havent been provided with any evidence to prove that this van is an authentic Whitby 
Morrison ice-cream van. Further to this the photos suggest that the body of the van wasnt in 
good pre-existing condition. And I dont believe the equipment in the van wouldve added to 
its pre-incident value, given that the equipment is required to run the van as an ice-cream 
van. Overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that the engineers valuation is wrong 
or shouldn't be relied on. 
So, Im satisfied Avivas offer is in line with market value, and fair in all the circumstances. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking Aviva to increase its 
settlement offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman