DRN-3461204
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
unreasonably cancelled her pet policy because of an unpaid direct debit (DD) which neither 
Mrs H nor her bank cancelled.
What happened
Mrs H had a pet policy for her two dogs with Casualty. She needed to make a claim for both 
her dogs since they had received vet treatment. But when Mrs H went to do so, she 
discovered her policy had been cancelled without any notice. 
Casualty said this was because the DD was cancelled which meant it couldnt collect her 
premium instalment. So, it then cancelled her policy. It said it had notified Mrs H of this, but 
Mrs H said she never received any notification of this.
Further Mrs H said neither her nor her bank had cancelled the DD at all so consequently 
Casualty should reinstate her policy. Casualty remained of the view that it hadnt done 
anything wrong, so it wouldnt reinstate her policy or consider her claim. This meant Mrs H 
was out of pocket for the vet fees she incurred. So, Mrs H brought her complaint to us.
Ultimately the investigator recommended this complaint should be upheld. Casualty 
maintained it didnt affect the DD mandate, so it didnt agree with the investigators view. On 
that basis, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I want to thank Mrs H for the level of detail she gathered in presenting her complaint. 
And, also, for reluctantly pursuing a complaint against her bank which in effect gave us the 
right answer on this complaint. It has meant a protracted complaint process for Mrs H too, 
which caused some considerable added inconvenience and distress.
Casualty invited Mrs H to renew her policy in the usual way on 4 December 2020. Her 
renewal date was 1 January 2021. Casualty explained in the renewal invite the following:
Payment Details
Your renewal price is based on your current policy and your premium may change if 
any of your details have changed or you make a claim between now and 01/01/2021.
If you are unsure what information to tell us about, please contact us either at
info@perfectpetinsurance.co.uk or 01992 667330.
We will collect payment using the payment method previously used for this policy.
This shows that Casualty didnt expect that Mrs H would have to do anything in order for her 
policy to continue. Mrs H said she heard nothing further from Casualty, other than her 
renewed policy details. 
In June 2021, she needed to make the claims previously referred to, and when she went on 
the website to download claim forms, she couldnt find her account. Casualty then told her 
she no longer had a policy. It said it had sent her two emails, one dealing with the issues it 
had with her DD, and the other telling her that her policy has cancelled. Mrs H said she 
never received these emails despite searching her spam folders etc. And to date Casualty 
has been unable to prove these emails were actually sent to Mrs H by way of appropriate 
system screen shots. Instead its merely forwarded copies of them with sadly little proof 
when they were sent or indeed to whom. And oddly too, in my view, the cancellation is done 
as an endorsement but theres nothing to show me to whom this endorsement document 
was sent. Thats not good enough evidence in my view that the issue of the problem with the 
DD and the subsequent cancellation of the policy notification was sent to Mrs H by Casualty.
  
Furthermore I dont consider Casualtys stance that Mrs H should have noticed her premium 
instalments werent coming out of her bank account holds much merit, as it was for Casualty 
to effectively notify Mrs H that there were problems with her DD instead. 
So, in the first instance, I dont consider Casualty appropriately notified Mrs H at the time that 
her policy was cancelled, on the basis there is no proof it sent her the emails it said it did. 
And I dont consider that was fair or reasonable. Had it notified Mrs H effectively, I have no 
doubt Mrs H would have responded, given her meticulous evidence in this complaint, and 
this matter would most likely have been sorted out long before Mrs H had any need to make 
any claims.
 
Nonetheless as confirmed by Mrs Hs bank, no premium instalments had left her bank 
account to Casualty since the last one in December 2020 for that years policy. Her bank 
said this was because the December 2020 instalment had the final instalment code on it. 
So that meant once this final instalment had been taken from Mrs Hs bank account, the DD 
effectively expired, hence Casualty receiving the cancellation notification. Mrs Hs bank said 
that also would have been put on the DD mandate by Casualty when Casualty first set up 
Mrs Hs policy and the payment of the premium by instalments. Mrs Hs bank confirmed that 
neither Mrs H or her bank can interfere in any DD set up, as that set up can only be done by 
the entity or merchant in banking terms, and here, that is Casualty. That set up includes the 
amount to be paid, the dates it should be paid and for how long the payments need to be 
made. According to Mrs Hs bank, only Casualty, as the merchant in this scenario, can set 
that up, neither Mrs H nor indeed the bank can interfere with that initial set up. 
Mrs Hs bank also confirmed that neither it nor Mrs H cancelled this DD either because 
essentially the DD had expired in any event. And following Mrs Hs complaint to her bank, 
we now know that this is correct. There is simply no evidence of any cancellation by Mrs H 
or her bank.
Further, we now know that for whatever reason, the cause of the DD having this to have final 
code, as against setting up a new DD on the policy renewal or indeed rather than the more 
usual continuous payment code, lies at the hands of whoever in Casualty set this up. Mrs 
Hs bank said the following:
As part of my investigation Ive looked into the direct debit you had with Perfect Pet 
Insurance. Ive found that the final payment date for this was the 7th
December 2020. This was pre-determined as the direct debit was set to finishafter twelve months. This was set by Perfect Pet Insurance and means that
neither [name of bank] nor yourself [Mrs H] have cancelled this direct debit.
If any organisation plans to debit your account following the final payment it
must set up a new direct debit authority. In the case of insurance policies, this
would normally be done when you agree to renew your policy however no new
instruction was received and therefore when a payment request was made, this
was rejected as they did not have the authority to take funds from your account.
We can see evidence from Mrs Hs bank that Casualty did try and take a DD payment from 
Mrs Hs account once the policy renewed, which wasnt of course met, because the last 
payment in December 2020 was wrongly marked as the final payment. However what 
Casualty then failed to recognise, is that this has to have been its fault in the DD initial set 
up, in order for this to have happened. Sadly, for Mrs H, it has resolutely failed to investigate 
this, despite both Mrs H and indeed her bank, along with the investigator explaining the 
matter at some considerable and repeatedly length.
 
Casualty told the investigator on 20 January 2022 that it had a continuous mandate in place 
thus not requiring any refreshing every 12 months. However, the evidence from Mrs Hs 
bank shows for whatever reason the DD was not set up as a continuous payment mandate. 
This is because there is clear evidence from Mrs Hs bank that the December payment was 
originally marked by Casualty itself in the initial set up, as being the final payment required. 
So, although Ive no reason to doubt that Casualty wanted the DD set up as a continuous 
payment, its obvious to me that this didnt happen here. And I consider thats not Mrs Hs 
fault or indeed her banks either, given the evidence received in Mrs Hs complaint against 
her bank.
Therefore, I consider the lack of payment of premiums for Mrs Hs renewed policy with 
Casualty most likely occurred due to its mistake in the set of the DD initially. Theres no other 
explanation on the evidence I have before me. More so given the evidence Mrs Hs bank 
provided in the complaint against it.
So, it follows that I consider that Mrs H and her bank werent at fault for any lack of 
payments for her renewed policy. Further as I said above, Mrs H wasnt appropriately 
informed by Casualty of this difficulty, in a timely manner at the time, and neither was she 
appropriately informed her policy had in fact been cancelled. 
 
Therefore I consider its right that Casualty now deals with Mrs Hs claims for both her dogs 
as if the policy had renewed, using the terms and conditions of the policy it had renewed with 
Mrs H in January 2021 before it was cancelled. 
If the claims are accepted, it would need to deduct the premium it required to be paid in 
instalments up to the date Mrs H found her alternative insurance policy along with the 
excess charge before paying her claims with interest. This is because Mrs H is now paying 
premiums for a new policy, from 8 September 2021, which she would not have been doing, 
had Casualty not cancelled her policy. So, on that basis it would not be reasonable or fair for 
Mrs H to be paying premiums twice for the same cover, given I consider neither Mrs H nor 
her bank had any hand in this. So, I dont consider its right that the full years premium 
should be deducted as the investigator initially thought in his view, which he has recently 
explained to Casualty.
This has understandably caused Mrs H some considerable distress, upset and 
inconvenience. The investigator suggested Casualty should pay Mrs H £300 compensation. I 
consider that is reasonable and in line with our approach to compensation in these sorts of 
circumstances. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following:
Assess Mrs Hs claims as if the policy renewed in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of that policy. 
If her claims are accepted as valid claims, it must deduct any premium instalments 
Mrs H would have paid up to 31 August 2021 plus any excess before paying her 
claims. 
Adding interest at 8% simple per year from the date in June 2021 that Mrs H wanted 
to make her claims to the date it pays her claims. If income tax is to be deducted 
from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mrs H for HMRC 
purposes. 
Pay Mrs H £300 compensation for the distress, upset and inconvenience this matter 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman