DRN-1607717
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr T says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this, many years 
later. I say this because Ive considered what we know about how Barclays sold PPI 
over the internet around this time. To get the cover Mr T would have had to select it 
and he would have had a choice about doing that or not. So it seems most likely that 
Mr T did choose it and did so knowing he had a choice to do so.    
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Ts initial sick pay was good, it dropped 
significantly after 6 months and Mr T told us he had no other means to rely on in that 
circumstance, or if he lost his job. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months 
if Mr T was too ill to work, or if Mr T lost his job. So I think the policy would have been 
useful to him if something went wrong. 
 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I do not 
uphold Mr Ts complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman