DRN-1423767
 
Complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her late parents, Mr and Mrs R a 
monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. She brings this 
complaint in the capacity of the executor of Mr and Mrs R's estates.
Background
Mr and Mrs R were sold a MPPI policy in 1991.
The MPPI policy covered both Mr and Mrs R. It would have provided a monthly benefit for up 
to 24 months per claim if Mr and/or Mrs R were off work sick and for up to 12 months if they 
lost their job/s.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. Ms R didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs R were eligible under the policy. Based on 
their age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they 
were eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Rs account.  
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately (though 
understandably) due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, BoS no longer 
have the documents from the time of the sale. However, my understanding of BoS sales 
process from around the time of the sale is that MPPI was presented as optional and would 
only have been applied to the account if Mr and Mrs R had agreed to take it out. And 
although I appreciate what Ms R has told us about her parents being gullible and that they 
would have believed that they had to take MPPI to get the mortgage, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude that on this occasion its more likely that BoS didnt present 
the policy as optional and/or didnt get Mr and Mrs Rs consent.
BoS say they advised Mr and Mrs R to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
 
The MPPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr and Mrs R may have 
been entitled to from their employers and likely for a much longer period of time. The 
MPPI was protecting a valuable asset and Mr and Mrs R didnt have any other 
guaranteed means of meeting the repayments. The policy would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mr and Mrs R may have been entitled to.
 
Mr and Mrs R dont appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which 
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R.
 
Mr and Mrs R could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs R wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs R this 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R on behalf of 
the estates of Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman