DRN-4245398
The complaint
Mr J complains Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded three transactions he didnt make and that 
it feels like its accusing him of making them.
What happened
Mr J had an account with Monzo in May 2023.
Mr J says he got a notification on 4 May 2023 that a £47.50 payment had been taken from 
his Monzo account  and that he did so after he landed following a holiday abroad. He says 
he then noticed two other payments  for £0.99 and £29.99  had been taken by the same 
merchant the day before. He says he reported all three payments as fraudulent to Monzo 
immediately, saying that hed not made any of them and asking for a refund.
Monzo says it looked into Mr Js claim and said the payments werent fraudulent so wouldnt 
be refunded. Monzo also gave Mr J two months notice of its intention to close his account. 
Mr J was very unhappy and complained, saying that he was going to close his account.
Monzo looked into Mr Js complaint about the way it had handled his claim. Having done so, 
Monzo said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr J complained to our service as 
he was still extremely unhappy with Monzo.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and said that they didnt think Monzo 
had acted unfairly as Monzo had sent evidence to show the payments had been made via 
Apple pay using Mr Js mobile phone which hed said had been in his possession at all 
times, had facial recognition and to which no-one else had access. Mr J was very unhappy 
with our investigators response. He said that Monzo had never mentioned Apple pay and 
that he was being called a criminal and a liar. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. So, his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has said that he used his debit card twice on the final full day of his holiday  3 May 
2023  spending approximately £15 and £9. Ive seen those transactions. I can also see that 
there were two other transactions an hour and a half later that day  one for £0.99 and one 
for £29.99. Mr J says he didnt notice these transactions  both of which hes since disputed 
 until he returned to the UK. Ive no reason to doubt that.
In his complaint form to us, Mr J said that his flight left at 11am local time on 4 May 2023 and 
landed in the UK at 12.30pm local time. That would make sense as his flight was two and a 
half hours and the place he was staying was an hour ahead of the UK. He has, however, 
also sent us a copy of his itinerary and e-ticket and these suggest that his flight left at 10am 
local time and landed at 11.30am local time. So, there are some potentially discrepancies 
there. I dont, however, think that these ultimately matter. Ill explain why.
In cases like this, our role is to decide whether a business acted fairly and reasonably when 
it decided not to refund a disputed transaction. Or, to put it another way, whether a business 
acted fairly and reasonably when it decided to hold a customer liable for a disputed 
transaction. Our role isnt to decide whether a customer carried out the disputed transaction.
In this case, Monzo could see that all three of these payments had been made using Apple 
pay, using the only token registered to Mr Js account and using Mr Js mobile phone. In 
other words, Monzo could see that all three payments had been properly authenticated. In 
addition, Monzo could see that Mr J had said that he had his mobile phone with him at all 
times, that it needed facial recognition to unlock it and that no-one else had access to it. In 
the circumstances, given that Apple pay and the same token had also been used to make an 
undisputed transaction the previous month, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Monzo to say that it wasnt going to refund the three transactions in question. For that 
reason, I agree that it wouldnt be right to uphold this complaint. Thats not the same as 
saying Mr J is a criminal or a liar, and I hope he wont take this decision that way.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman