DRN-3322038
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly refused to 
meet part of a claim he made after he was burgled.
What happened
Mr S was burgled. The thief got in through a door at the back of the house and caused some 
damage to his lean-to, which he uses as a utility room, as well as elsewhere in the house.
Lloyds agreed to consider Mr Ss claim, but says it wont pay for the damage Mr S says the 
thief did to the lean-to, as its representatives said most of the damage was pre-existing. Mr S 
complained about this but Lloyds hasnt changed its position  although it did say it would 
consider any new evidence Mr S might have to support this part of his claim.
Mr S asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. They said it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the information it received from its 
representatives when deciding if a claim should be met  and they thought the photographs 
provided supported the conclusions reached by the surveyor.
Mr S says the surveyors are wrong and his utility room was in a good state before the 
burglary.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S made an extensive claim after the burglary. In this decision I am only 
considering Mr Ss claim for repairs to the lean-to and the shed window.
When a claim is made, there are certain pieces of evidence that have to be provided. First, 
Mr S had to show that a circumstance hes insured for (often called an event) has happened. 
In this case this was theft. Theres no doubt Mr Ss house was broken into. So it was right 
that Lloyds consider his claim  which includes any damage caused during the break-in.
If Lloyds doesnt think it need meet all or part of the claim then the onus is on it to show that 
an exclusion applies. Thats a reason why Lloyds can fairly avoid paying the claim.
Here, Lloyds says that the lean-to was in a poor state of repair before the burglary and that 
the extensive damage Mr S is claiming for wasnt, in the main, caused by the thief.
To support this position Lloyds sent a contractor to look at the property, and it also appointed 
someone to manage Mr Ss claim.. Both have concluded that the lean-to looks to be of a 
largely DIY construction, with an unsupported roof and walls made from wood that arent 
connected in any meaningful way to the floor. 
The report also talk about the general construction of the room as being unsatisfactory and 
potentially a fire hazard. 
The report from the contractor concludes that the only damage covered by Mr Ss policy 
would be some broken glass in the door and the shed window. But it also says that given the 
state of the room and shed it wouldnt undertake these repairs. I understand Lloyds has 
made a cash settlement for these items, which seems reasonable to me.
Its generally accepted that an insurer can rely on the reports it commissions when deciding 
if it should meet all or part of a claim. Thats because the reports are produced by 
specialists. But Id also expect Lloyds to take into account any extra information Mr S can 
provide.
Mr S says hes had a builder confirm that the lean-to is beyond economic repair. And having 
seen the note from the builder I agree thats the case. But the builder also says this is 
because of the design and build date of the lean-to, which makes it unsuitable, cost-wise, 
for repair. I dont think that contradicts the report Lloyds relied upon.
Mr S says his property was in a good state before the burglary. So Ive also looked at the 
photos provided. Whilst I can see that the room might look acceptable on the surface, I can 
also see the unusual construction the surveyor has reported. 
Mr S says the roof was damaged when a burglar got on it. I dont think any of the parties can 
be sure whether someone got onto this roof, or when. But I have to agree with Lloyds that 
someone getting onto an unsupported roof like this one could cause it to collapse. It appears 
to be partly made from corrugated plastic which is damaged and showing signs of moss etc. 
Thats something that builds up over months or years. Overall the roof looks as though its 
suffering from extensive wear and tear that would have been present before the burglary. 
Mr S also says so much damage was done that the walls are no longer stable. Thats not the 
sort of damage usually associated with a burglar breaking into a well-constructed building. 
And I see the contractor from Lloyds said some of the wood used for the walls was rotten. 
Again I dont think thats related to the burglary, as it takes time for wood to rot.
I think, taking into account what Ive said above, that any damage done by the burglar has 
highlighted the poor state of the lean-to rather than being the main cause of damage. Lloyds 
has said it will consider any extra evidence Mr S might have if he wants it to reconsider its 
decision. Thats what Id expect it to do, and I think this is a fair response. But unless Mr S 
can provide substantial evidence to the contrary, I think Lloyds has applied the exclusions 
contained in Mr Ss policy fairly and need do no more about this aspect of Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman