DRN-3965831
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV (Accelerant) has
voided its commercial property insurance policy and declined the claims it made.
What happened
In June 2021 K took out a commercial property insurance policy to cover a hotel it had
purchased. The policy is underwritten by Accelerant.
In March 2022, K contacted Accelerant to make several claims for losses which had
occurred over the previous seven months.
During the claim validation, Accelerant said that Ks hotel had a tenant who was in receipt of
housing benefits in situ when the policy was taken out, but K hadnt declared this. Accelerant
said that if they had known about this, then they wouldnt have offered a policy.
So, Accelerant voided Ks policy (treated it as if it never existed), refunded the premiums and
declined the claims K had made. K disputed the tenant was in receipt of housing benefit, and
also argued that regardless of this, it had no bearing on the losses that had given rise to the
claims it was trying to make.
Accelerant maintained their position. As K remained dissatisfied, it approached this service.
Our investigator initially agreed with Accelerant that K had failed to disclose that it had a
tenant in receipt of housing benefit when taking out the policy, so she said the actions
Accelerant had taken were fair.
K responded disagreeing, and the investigator revisited things. Her view changed slightly as
a result. She said that it wouldnt be fair for Accelerant to void the policy as she wasnt
satisfied they had evidenced the tenant in situ was in receipt of housing benefit at inception.
But she said Accelerant would have cancelled the policy when another tenant moved in
later, as they were in receipt of housing benefit.
So, whilst the investigator said it wasnt reasonable for Accelerant to void the policy, she said
it would have been cancelled in any event, so the end position was the same. Consequently,
the investigator remained of the view the complaint shouldnt be upheld and Accelerant
didnt need to do anything further.
K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. Therefore, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a slightly different outcome to that 
reached by our investigator. Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reach my final 
decision.
The policy voidance
Accelerant has voided Ks policy as they say it failed to make a fair presentation of 
the risk when taking out the policy. K has a commercial insurance policy, so the 
relevant law which applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, the insured has a duty to make a fair presentation of 
risk to an insurer when taking out a policy. Accelerant says K failed to tell them when 
taking out the policy it had a tenant in situ who was in receipt of housing benefit. So, 
they say K didnt make a fair presentation of risk. Accelerant say if K had disclosed 
this, they wouldnt have offered it a policy. So, theyve voided the policy, declined the 
claims and returned the premiums. Accelerant says this is the relevant remedy under 
the Insurance Act 2015.
The Insurance Act 2015 places an obligation on the insured to provide a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. In summary, K had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of risk and this includes disclosing every material circumstance which 
the insured knows, or ought to know. Or failing that, disclosure which gives the 
insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on notice to make further 
enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances. And the 
circumstance or facts are material if it would influence the judgement of a prudent 
insurer in determining whether to take on the risk.
If there hasnt been a fair presentation of risk, the Insurance Act 2015 then goes on 
to consider whether there has been a qualifying breach. This means if the insured 
had made a fair presentation of risk, would the insurer have acted differently by not 
offering a policy, or offering it on different terms.
And if there has been a qualifying breach, the Insurance Act 2015 allows the insurer 
a number of remedies and this depends on whether the qualifying breach was 
deliberate or reckless or not.Accelerant has said there was a qualifying breach, but they arent treating it as 
deliberate or reckless. Under the Insurance Act 2015, where there has been a 
qualifying breach which isnt deliberate or reckless, this gives an insurer several 
remedies. And of relevance here, where a policy wouldnt have been offered:
If, in the absence of the qualifying breach, the insurer would not have 
entered into the contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid the contract and 
refuse all claims, but must in that event return the premiums paid.
This is what Accelerant has done here. So, I need to consider whether Accelerant 
has acted in line with the Insurance Act 2015, and if this is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Accelerant says that when taking out the policy, K failed to declare that it had a 
tenant in situ who was in receipt of housing benefit. Accelerant say the incorrect 
answer K gave is reflected on its policy schedule:
Is accommodation let to Students, Asylum Seekers, Refugees or persons 
who receive Housing Benefit directly or indirectly?
The schedule shows this was answered No. Accelerant say this should have been 
answered Yes by K.
Accelerant has provided this service with a copy of their underwriting criteria (in 
confidence) and Im satisfied they have shown they are unable to offer a policy to 
hotels providing accommodation for local authority and DSS tenants. So, if this had 
been answered Yes Im satisfied Accelerant wouldnt have provided a policy.
However, having considered all the information provided by both parties, I dont think 
the voidance was in line with the Insurance Act 2015 or fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Before I do though, I should outline that Accelerant has voided the policy solely on 
the basis of the tenant in situ allegedly being in receipt of housing benefit. However, 
Accelerant has also raised concerns that there are a number of other differences 
which also should have been disclosed, or answered differently, by K when taking 
out the policy. This includes:
The buildings sum insured is inadequate
K had said the property didnt have a wood burning stove, but in fact there is 
one, (and K is unable to confirm when the flue was last swept) - which is 
different to the answer provided and reflected on Ks policy schedule
K doesnt have an electrical installation certificate to show it was tested in the 
last five years - which is different to the answer provided and reflected on Ks 
policy schedule
K said that the hotel complies with the minimum-security requirements 
outlined on the policy documents - but the locks do not comply with the 
minimum requirements
K had said that there had been no previous incidents, losses or claims 
(including for the partners and directors of K) in the last five years - but a 
director had a break in claim in 2018However, as Accelerant has solely relied on the tenant being in receipt of housing 
benefit to void the policy, and hasnt relied on the other points noted above (and 
instead has put K on notice of potential concerns) Ill only be considering whether it 
was fair to void on the reason Accelerant has relied on  the tenant at inception.
Ive considered all the information and arguments provided by both parties including 
Ks explanation why it didnt tell Accelerant the tenant was in receipt of housing 
benefit.
In summary, K has explained that there was nothing to show the tenant was in 
receipt of housing benefit, and they didnt provide K with anything to support that. 
Instead, when K purchased the hotel, the tenant was already residing there. The 
tenant then wouldnt pay the bill owed to K. Ultimately K says it was able to retrieve 
the keys and withhold the tenants possessions under the relevant Innkeepers Act. 
And K later managed to obtain a partial contribution toward the outstanding bill from 
the local council. But prior to this, the housing wasnt being paid for by the council, or 
housing benefit  including at policy inception.
Ive considered everything both parties have provided and I dont think Accelerant 
has demonstrated the tenant was in receipt of housing benefit when the policy was 
taken out. Accelerant hasnt provided anything which sufficiently persuades me this 
was the case, or consequently, that K should have declared this when taking out the 
policy. Therefore, Im not minded to conclude K answered the question asked about 
tenants incorrectly at inception. 
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im not minded to conclude K has failed to make a fair presentation of the risk when 
taking out the policy. Consequently, this means Accelerant cant rely on the 
Insurance Act 2015 to void Ks policy from inception.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing Accelerant to reinstate the policy (subject to receiving the 
premiums which were refunded previously), and to remove any internal and external 
records of the voidance.
However, there are further considerations here about what this then means for Ks 
policy, and the claims it tried to make. Ill consider this further below.
Ks policy if it wasnt voided
Accelerant says that even if there isnt enough evidence to support the voidance 
(which Im minded to agree with for the reasons outlined), then they would have 
backdated the cancellation instead to the point the risk was no longer acceptable to 
them. They outlined this to K in their final response, but maintained voidance was the 
correct way to proceed at that time.
Im minded to conclude backdating cancellation is reasonable in the circumstances  
like our investigator concluded when reconsidering matters. However, Im not in 
agreement with our investigator (or Accelerant) that this means Accelerant dont 
need to do anything further. Ill explain why.Policy cancellation
As explained, Im minded to conclude that it wasnt reasonable to void Ks policy, so it 
would need to be reinstated (subject to the premiums being repaid by K). However, 
on 29 July 2021, another tenant moved into the hotel, and their stay was funded by 
the local council. K doesnt dispute that it was housing this tenant paid for by the local 
council. And when this was put to K by Accelerant during claim validation, K said:
We had a guest here paid by (Name) Borough Housing in about September 
for a couple of months yes. So What? We do what we can to help. We are 
nice people.
And although K said September here, and Accelerant also said they thought it was 
from 2 August 2021, having looked at the invoices K sent to the council for payment 
for the tenants stay, this was actually from 29 July 2021. So, Im satisfied a council 
funded tenant resided at Ks hotel from 29 July 2021, around six weeks after the 
policy was taken out.
In previous communication, K also told the council that it was happy to take on this 
type of tenant more regularly:
We are also happy to help you with the housing needs of other homeless 
people you may need to accommodate and in that regard we look forward to 
working with you. We have worked with (Name) Council on a couple of 
cases.
The tenant remained at the hotel for a number of months. However, from the 
communication with the council, K was unhappy with the tenant due to them begging, 
smoking in their room, stealing items, and not following rules in place by the hotel 
despite a number of warnings. Consequently, K refused to house them any longer.
Whilst K doesnt dispute it has taken tenants housed by the council and in receipt of 
housing benefit, it has said it doesnt think it should be an issue as the claims were 
unrelated to the type of tenants. However, what is important here is whether 
Accelerant would have offered a policy, had they been aware. And as Ive outlined 
above, Im satisfied Accelerant has shown this type of tenant is outside their risk 
appetite - so they wouldnt have provided cover.
Accelerant says that K should have told them about this tenant when they moved in, 
and they would then consider if the risk was still acceptable, based on the following in 
Ks policy terms:
Keeping the Insurer Informed
The insured must notify the Insurer, or the Insureds Insurance Advisor:
a) Without delay if the Insured becomes aware that information the 
Insured has given the Insurer is inaccurate;
b) Within fourteen (14) days of the Insured becoming aware about any 
changes in the information the Insured has provided to the Insurer 
which happens before or during the period of insurance;When the Insurer is notified that information the Insured previously provided 
is inaccurate, or of any changes to that information, the Insurer will tell the 
Insured if this affects the Insureds insurance. For example, the Insurer may 
amend the terms of the Insureds insurance or require the Insured to pay 
more for the Insureds insurance or cancel the Insureds insurance in 
accordance with the Cancellation section.
If the Insured fail to notify the Insurer that the information the Insured has 
provided is inaccurate, or the Insured fail to notify the Insurer of any changes, 
this insurance may not pay the Insureds claim or any payment could be 
reduced.
And:
3) Alteration
This policy shall cease to be in force from the date of alteration if
a) any alteration is made either in the Business or at the Premises or 
to any Property insured after the commencement of the insurance 
that increases the risk of loss destruction damage or injury or 

unless the insurer has agreed in writing to accept such alteration
Im minded to agree with what Accelerant says here. That there was an alteration 
when K housed the tenant in July 2021. And Im satisfied that the fact Accelerant 
asked K about tenants receiving benefits when taking out the policy shows this is 
something they needed to know about when assessing the risk. So, Im also satisfied 
that K should have been aware that it needed to notify Accelerant about the tenant 
who moved in at the end of July. And in line with these terms, K needed to tell 
Accelerant about this within 14 days - but didnt do so.
Im satisfied that if K had told Accelerant in line with the terms, then they would have
cancelled the policy as it no longer met their risk criteria. Therefore, I dont think it is
unreasonable for Accelerant to back date cancellation rather than voiding the policy. 
But the question I need to consider is when that cancellation would have occurred. 
This is important due to the points the losses and claims occurred, and whether they 
were before, or after, cancellation. The policy terms explain:
Cancellation by the Insurer
ii. Cancellation for any other reason
The Insurer may cancel the Policy or any section or endorsement by giving 30 
days notice in writing by letter to the Insured at the Insureds last known 
address or to their insurance agent
The Insurer does not have to give a reason for the cancellation although 
potential reasons for doing so may include but are not limited to the following
.- Where an alteration is made to the Business the Premises or the 
Property or where the Insureds interest ceases unless agreed by the 
Insurer as detailed in General Condition 3) Alteration
..
The Insurance will end immediately the 30 days notice runs out
However, whilst Im satisfied K should have told Accelerant about the change, 
Accelerant wouldnt have offered cover and would then have cancelled, I dont think 
the policy terms Ive referred to above are clear about what happens when there is a 
change and the policy is then cancelled. They contradict each other. On one hand, 
they say that in the event of Accelerant cancelling a policy (including for an 
alteration/change - which is of relevance here - and referring to that condition 
specially), they will give 30 days notice and the policy will end at that point. But by 
contrast, general condition three (alteration) also says there will be no cover from 
when that change occurs, effectively at odds with the 30 days notice.
In my view the terms are unclear whether there will be a 30 day period in which to 
source alternative cover, or if the cover will immediately cease as soon as that 
change occurs  even though the insured has 14 days to notify Accelerant of that 
change. So, this further confuses matters if Accelerant intended to cease cover from 
being told of the change, or retrospectively from when that change occurred  and 
thats putting aside the further point about 30 days in the cancellation terms.
Given the lack of clarity and conflicting terms, and the significant impact of an 
immediate cancellation which doesnt appear to be prominently highlighted 
elsewhere, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances here to 
consider the 30 day period for cancellation to be applicable.
So, I agree that K should have told Accelerant that it had a tenant in receipt of 
housing benefits move into the hotel on 29 July 2021. K had to tell Accelerant, in line 
with the terms, within 14 days of the change. Therefore, the latest point K should 
have told Accelerant was 11 August 2021.
Had K told Accelerant at that point, based on what Ive outlined above about the 
cancellation period, 30 days from this would have been 9 September 2021. So, Im 
minded to conclude that is when the backdated cancellation should fairly and 
reasonably take effect from.
Accelerant has treated the policy as void and returned all the premiums. But I dont 
think thats fair for the reasons Ive outlined. So, Accelerant would need to reinstate 
the policy. 
But that would also mean K would need to return the premiums to Accelerant to have 
the policy in force retrospectively, and then subsequently cancelled. Ordinarily, there 
would be a pro-rata refund of premiums (in line with the terms) if Accelerant had 
cancelled rather than voided the policy. So, on the face of it, this could put K in a 
worse position, as it would need to pay Accelerant money back to have its policy 
cancelled.
However, Ive also considered what impact the cancellation rather than voidance 
would have on the claims K tried to make. And I dont think this disadvantages K. Ill 
explain why below.The claims
As outlined, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable to consider the 
policy cancelled from 9 September 2021. The losses K incurred were:
15 August 2021  a leak from a lead pipe in the first-floor communal shower 
area
13 October 2021  A leak from a toilet
13 October 2021  A leak from a shower tray
Multiple points, dates yet to be confirmed  A scissor lift damaged carpet in 
various areas
Any claims or losses post the backdated cancellation (9 September 2021) wouldnt 
have been covered, as the policy would no longer have been in force. However, this 
also means that the 15 August 2021 loss would have been within the period cover 
was in force and prior to cancellation taking place.
Therefore, I think one loss will at least fall within the period where cover was 
effectively in force. So Accelerant would need to reconsider that claim.
However, Ill also explain here that Im not intending to direct Accelerant to pay Ks 
August 2021 claim at this stage. Instead Im minded to direct Accelerant to 
reconsider it in line with the remaining policy terms. This is because Accelerant 
hasnt actually validated that claim as the policy was (wrongly) voided before it got to 
that stage, so it may still not be covered  but for other reasons.
Accelerant also has a number of other concerns about what was declared during the 
sale of the policy (putting aside the tenant at point of inception which I dont think 
they can rely on to void the policy for the reasons Ive explained). But Accelerant 
hasnt yet explored those discrepancies further, and will need to, before establishing 
if the policy would actually have been in place at inception, and if the August 2021 
claim is covered under the remaining terms of the policy.
But I should also highlight, in the event of a claim, there would be no refund of 
premiums due. So, in order for K to have the August 2021 claim considered, K would 
need to return the full policy premiums for the year, for a policy which would only 
have been effectively in force until 9 September 2021. But I dont think thats unfair if 
K wants to continue with one of the claims. And, if the claim isnt ultimately covered, 
the pro-rata premium from cancellation would be due to K, in line with the policy 
terms where a claim hadnt been paid.
Either way though, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the policy to be 
recorded internally or externally as cancelled by Accelerant. Instead, if a cancellation 
notice had been issued with 30 days warning, K would have had an opportunity to 
cancel the policy before it was actioned by Accelerant  which could affect future 
insurance policies. So retrospectively cancelling the policy, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to be recorded as cancelled by K rather than Accelerant from 9 
September 2021.The service received
K has been caused inconvenience by its policy being voided. And it took a number of
months to reach that (incorrect) decision. And Im minded to conclude, that if the 
policy was cancelled rather than voided, it would have potentially resulted in at least 
one of Ks claims being assessed and potentially covered much sooner. So, in 
addition to the above, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill also be directing Accelerant to compensate K £150 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Accelerant to:
Reverse the policy voidance and reinstate Ks policy  subject to K repaying the
policy premiums
Remove the records of the policy voidance from internal and external databases
Treat the policy as cancelled from 9 September 2021  but do not record it as
cancelled by Accelerant internally or externally
Reconsider the August 2021 claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If any cash
settlement is paid, 8% simple interest would need to be added from date of loss to
date of payment
Pay K £150 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Accelerant didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline.
K responded via its representative, but K didnt say whether it agreed with the provisional 
decision or not. Instead, K said that it hadnt actually been offered or given a refund of the 
premiums yet following the policy voidance. K also said that it noted its position had 
potentially improved but questioned how positive Accelerant would be for the August 2021 
claim given their position throughout. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything in response to my provisional 
decision which has led me to change my view of what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, 
and for the same reasons.
But to address the points made by K via its representative, Accelerant voided the policy and 
I said they werent able to do this based on the reason theyd relied on. Therefore, I also said 
Accelerant needed to reinstate the policy, subject to K paying the relevant premium, and 
treat the policy as cancelled from 9 September 2021 instead. This would then mean 
Accelerant need to reconsider the claim from August 2021. It follows that if the premium 
hasnt yet been refunded to K and Accelerant still has it, then this doesnt need to be 
returned by K for Accelerant to reinstate (and cancel the policy with effect from 9 September 
2021) and reconsider the August 2021 claim.This also doesnt change what I said would need to happen if the August 2021 claim 
was/wasnt then accepted by Accelerant. As outlined in my provisional decision, if the claim 
is accepted, then Accelerant, as per the terms, is able to retain the policy premiums for the 
year. And if the claim isnt accepted, in line with the terms, Accelerant would need to provide 
a pro-rata refund of the premiums post cancellation date of 9 September 2021.
I also note what K has said (via its representative) about the August 2021 claim that 
Accelerant would need to reconsider and the potential outcome of that claim, but I cant 
comment on that as that hasnt yet happened. If K remains unhappy with the outcome that is 
ultimately reached by Accelerant on the August 2021 claim (or if Accelerant void the policy 
for other reasons), K would need to raise this as a new separate complaint with Accelerant 
which K then may then be able to bring to our service  subject to our usual rules and 
timescales.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Accelerant Insurance 
Europe SA/NV to:
Reverse the policy voidance and reinstate Ks policy  subject to K repaying the
policy premiums (unless they havent yet been returned to K)
Remove the records of the policy voidance from internal and external databases
Treat the policy as cancelled from 9 September 2021  but do not record it as
cancelled by Accelerant internally or externally
Reconsider the August 2021 claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If any cash
settlement is paid, 8% simple interest* would need to be added from date of loss to
date of payment
Pay K £150 compensation
*If Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell K how much its taken off. It 
should also give K a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman