DRN-4039745
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim 
to a bank impersonation scam.
Mr H is represented by solicitors. To make my decision easier to read, I refer to Mr H. I do 
this even where it was his representatives rather than Mr H who said or did something. 
I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.  
What happened
Mr H owns a small business. A client that hed previously done work for (who Ill refer to as 
L) contacted him out of the blue whilst he was working to say her account had been hacked 
and money had been sent to his business account. Mr H logged into his business account 
and saw an incoming payment from L for over £9,000.
Mr H explains that hed known L for several years, they were friendly as theyd met in person 
on several occasions and that L is well respected within the local community. Mr H explains 
he did not think anything of it when L asked if Mr H could speak to her bank about returning 
the money. He explains he was happy to help as the money did not belong to him. L told 
Mr H that she needed the money to be paid into a safe account by 6pm that day else it could 
impact her credit rating. Mr H says that he knew L was in the process of buying a property 
and wanted to get the situation resolved as quickly as possible so he could return his 
attention back to the job he was working on.  
Unfortunately, L was the unwitting victim of a scam and the caller Mr H spoke with wasnt 
from Ls genuine bank, it was a fraudster. Mr H tried to make the payment directly from his 
business account, but was unable to. So he transferred the money to his Starling account 
and then followed the fraudsters instructions to send it to a new payee. 
L discovered shed been the victim of a scam when she did not receive her funds back. She 
reported it to her bank. Mr Hs business bank account provider debited the balance of his 
business account to revert the funds back to L, leaving Mr H out of pocket for the £9,875.69 
that hed sent on from his Starling account. 
Mr H reported what had happened to Starling, but it turned down his claim for a refund 
because it did not believe Mr H took reasonable steps to check the payment was genuine. 
Starling contacted the beneficiary bank to see if it could recover any of the funds that had 
been sent, but sadly none remained. 
Mr H complained, but Starling did not change its position. It said it had followed its policy and 
guidelines. It felt it was highly suspicious that Mr H had been asked to create a payee in the 
name of an unconnected third party and said no steps were taken to verify or enquire why 
the beneficiary was not an account held at Ls bank. 
As Mr H remained unhappy with Starlings position, he referred the complaint to us. One of 
our Investigators looked into it and recommended that it should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
should have been reimbursed under the Lending Standards Boards (LSB) Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which Starling has signed up to. He didnt 
think Starling had provided an effective warning about this scam risk at the time Mr H made 
the payment and he felt Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing the situation was 
legitimate. 
Starling disagreed. It was concerned that it was being asked to refund a payment that was 
not Mr Hs own funds. It asked if we had investigated with Mr Hs business bank account 
provider why the funds were recalled. It felt Mr H had trusted the caller without any reason to 
do so and that Mr H must have known that no credit rating is affected so quickly. It wasnt 
persuaded Mr H had verified that the caller was genuine and pointed out that he was being 
asked to transfer the funds to an account at an entirely different bank which he did not 
question. It suggested Mr H had ignored many red flags and the point of loss here was with 
Mr Hs business bank account. It concluded by saying it was harsh to hold Starling 100% 
liable in the circumstances without onus on Mr H in any capacity. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
My further investigation 
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Mr Hs business account provider to 
understand more about what happened there. That bank provided evidence of what had 
been reported and it aligned with what Mr H told us. It said that L had been the victim of a 
scam and that Mr H was unaware that the payment from L had been reversed at the time he 
moved funds into his Starling account.
I contacted Starling and confirmed what Mr Hs business account provider had said. 
I explained that I had seen evidence in the business account providers records to support 
that Mr H had been caught up in a scam and that it was not in question that both L and Mr H 
had been duped.
I suggested to Starling that receiving money was a very powerful confidence trick that went 
right to the very heart of why this scam was able to succeed. I thought that Mr Hs balance 
increasing would have cemented the circumstances. At the time Mr H made the payment, he 
thought he was doing the right thing. I suggested that Id not seen anything to make me think 
Starling could fairly apply any of the exceptions to full reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
Starling responded to say it wanted more clarification from Mr Hs business account provider 
as to why it debited the account. It felt that Mr H was part of the journey of the scam but was 
not the direct victim of the scam. 
I said that Mr Hs business account provider had verified the version of events and allayed 
any concern that Mr H was somehow in cahoots. I thought that on the face of it the other 
bank was entitled to make its own decision about whether to debit Mr Hs business account 
and that transaction was distinct to the one at issue here. I said it was not in question that 
Mr H had been duped into making a payment and had ended up out of pocket. 
I let both parties know that our Investigators recommendation for Starling to pay 8% simple 
interest on the funds was overly generous because Mr Hs business bank account 
statements showed the credit balance was not interest bearing and it seemed more likely 
than not that these funds would have remained in that account but for the scam. I made 
Starling aware that my intention was to now issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2018 and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse its customer, 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have fully reimbursed Mr H in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
signed up to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr H from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
Starling is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. 
The CRM Code only applies to APP scams as defined by DS1(2)(a). But I think the payment 
Mr H made from his Starling account meets this definition of a scam. Theres no question in 
my mind that when he made the payment in dispute, he transferred funds to another person 
for what he believed was a legitimate purpose but was in fact fraudulent. As such, an APP 
scam has taken place here.
Starling has suggested that Mr Hs business bank account provider is the point of loss. But 
the LSB has confirmed that the CRM Code specifically includes payment journeys which 
have been intentionally elongated to involve more than one individual. Whilst this is a 
complex and multi layered scam, I do not consider that L or Mr H have orchestrated it. The 
information I have seen from Mr Hs business bank provider shows that both L and Mr Hs 
explanation of events are consistent with what Mr H has told both Starling and this service. 
Whilst I appreciate Starlings position that this is an unusual multi-stage fraud, the 
involvement of an unwitting intermediary does not exclude the possibility of the CRM Code 
applying. The LSB has said that consideration should be given to the point at which the 
consumer lost control of their funds. Here, the funds were ultimately lost to Mr H when he 
transferred them out of his Starling account, so I consider the payment Mr H made from his 
Starling account is capable of being covered by the CRM Code. 
This means that Starling should refund Mr H unless it can show that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement set out in the CRM Code at R2(1) apply to this case. Starling has argued that 
exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code do apply to this case.
The exceptions relevant here are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
oThe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay 
oThe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
oThe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.Effective warnings
Mr H was making a payment of over £9,000 to a new payee. Under the CRM Code, Starling 
should have identified a potential scam risk in the payment journey and provided an 
effective warning. When considering any warning given, consideration must be given to 
whether the warning is likely to have had a material impact on preventing the scam.
Starling says that as part of the payment journey Mr H answered guided questions to say 
that he was paying to a family friend, repaying money they had lent them, that they had met 
face to face, that they had paid each other before and that they did not receive a request 
unexpectedly. I dont think Mr Hs responses to get to this point were deliberately misleading. 
He's explained that his primary motivation was to return the money hed received that did not 
belong to him. The purpose of these questions is to enable Starling to provide a warning 
intended to give Mr H a better chance of protecting himself from potential fraud. As a result 
of Mr Hs answers, Starling provided a warning that was tailored to the risk of a bank 
impersonation scam. The information said:
## Warning Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine 
organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to move 
money to a new, 'safe' bank account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear to come from 
a different number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in doubt you can call us 
on 0207 930 4450.
Starling says this warning was specific and impactful as required by the CRM Code. But 
I dont consider it brings to life how this scam looks or feels when it is happening to the 
extent that it would have given Mr H a better chance to protect himself from being defrauded. 
It is clear that Mr H was reading the information as it was displayed on the screen in order to 
be able to answer the guided questions, but I dont think what he was reading resonated with 
him so that he recognised his own circumstances. Mr H has explained he did not doubt that 
he was speaking with Ls bank. He was speaking with the same person that L had spoken to 
and he describes the caller as highly professional. Mr H recalls that he did not feel 
pressured into making the payment and that the caller was happy for him to verify 
information directly with L, which reassured him he was doing everything right. 
In my view, the information Mr H was presented with was not enough to give the typical 
customer a better chance to protect themselves. It didnt give any information about the risks 
and consequences of proceeding with the payment, which is a key standard set out in the 
CRM Code. 
I dont find this warning meets the standards for firms set out in the CRM Code and so it 
cant be said to be an effective warning. Starling cant then fairly apply it as an exception to 
reimbursement in this case.
Reasonable basis for belief 
Im also not persuaded that what Starling has said is enough to establish that Mr H did not 
have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. I have no doubt that Mr H 
believed he was doing the right thing at the time. Its clear it didnt occur to him there was 
any possibility that his own money was ever going to be at risk by following the callers 
instructions. People dont enter into situations wanting or expecting to be scammed and Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think Mr H ought to have had a heightened awareness of 
how a bank impersonation scam works. I think it was reasonable for Mr H to believe this 
situation was genuine in all the circumstances as they were here, and I dont agree Mr H 
blindly trusted the caller without any reason.I dont agree that Mr H ought reasonably to have had doubts about the situation. I dont 
consider that Starling has placed sufficient weight on the environment created by the 
fraudster. This was a very sophisticated, multi layered scam. The level of subterfuge was 
such that at one point Starling questioned whether Mr H and L were involved in its execution. 
I dont think Mr H should have had greater concerns about the situation he was unwittingly 
placed in. L is someone that Mr H knows personally and had no reason not to trust. L is a 
respected member of the local community and a previous client of Mr Hs business. There 
was a good reason why L had Mr Hs business account details saved as a payee and the 
situation that a payment had been made to Mr Hs account due to a problem at Ls end, was, 
on the face of it, entirely plausible. 
When Mr H checked his balance, he had received the funds. Ive seen Mr Hs business bank 
account statements and the deposit has Ls name as the payment reference. This is 
incredibly powerful, and I dont think Starling has given this enough weight when assessing 
Mr Hs actions. Mr H had received a significant amount of money that did not belong to him. 
It was clear the funds had come from L and L was in direct contact with him to try and 
arrange getting the funds back. 
The situation unfolded at a time when Mr H was working. The nature of Mr Hs job meant it 
was not possible for him to stop what he was doing for extended periods of time. This meant 
that he did not have much time to think. In addition to this, Mr H wanted to return the money 
that did not belong to him promptly. I dont think it was unreasonable of him to follow Ls lead 
on how best to do this and I dont think he ought to have been concerned when L asked if he 
would be willing to speak to her bank. I dont think Mr H should have contacted Starling at 
this stage, as Starling has suggested. Mr H did not perceive any risk of harm from fraud to 
him or L at this time and nor should he have done.
Mr H has explained that he was in contact with L whilst speaking to the fraudster. It is 
possible to send a text from a smart phone whilst on a call, so I dont think what Mr H has 
described is implausible. 
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing the payment to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view to the overall position our Investigator took. In 
particular, I am not persuaded that Mr H failed to take the requisite level of care required for 
Starling to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. It follows that under 
the provisions of the CRM Code, Mr H should have been reimbursed for the funds he lost.
I do appreciate Starlings frustrations that it, rather than another financial business, will be 
solely responsible for Mr Hs loss. But given that Starling is a signatory to the CRM Code, 
I dont find that Starling being responsible creates an unfair outcome. 
Turning to interest, its necessary for me to consider both the point at which Starling ought 
reasonably to have refunded the claim under the CRM Code and whether Mr H can 
satisfactorily demonstrate that he has been caused loss by being deprived of the money 
since that point. Having looked at Mr Hs business bank account statements, I think its more 
likely than not that the funds would have remained in that account but for this scam. The 
account typically runs with a high balance of working capital, and I dont think Mr H had any 
immediate plans to use the funds. As this account does not pay interest on credit balances, 
I am unable to fairly say that Starling should have to pay any additional interest on the 
refund. Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Starling. Starling should have reimbursed Mr H under the terms of the CRM 
Code and I therefore require it to:
Refund the £9,875.69 Mr H lost as a result of the scam within 28 days of receiving 
notification of acceptance of my final decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman