DRN-1382419
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Adrian Flux Insurance Services Groups handling of his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out car insurance on 3 August 2017 (the first policy). Adrian Flux sold the policy 
as broker. The policy was underwritten by a separate business (the first insurer). That policy 
included driving other cars (DOC) cover. That meant Mr W could drive other cars and that 
his insurer would cover third party risks when doing so.
Mr W took out a second car insurance policy in the summer of 2018, again through Adrian 
Flux. That policy started on 12 July 2018 and was underwritten by a separate business (the 
second insurer).
During the sales call for the July 2018 policy, Adrian Fluxs call handler took all the relevant 
details from Mr W. He told them he was employed full time as a manager at a supermarket. 
When he was asked if he had another job he said he recently got a part-time job at a garage. 
He said I wouldnt even call it mechanical just helping out. But the call handler put down 
Mr Ws part-time occupation as a mechanic.
Mr Ws first policy renewed on 3 August 2018. As that was arranged by Adrian Flux, and 
because they noted Mr Ws part time job as within the motor trade during the sale of the July 
2018 policy, they changed the details on his August 2018 renewal policy to show he worked 
at a garage.
In February 2019, Mr W was driving a friends car when he had an accident. He wanted the 
claim dealt with under his DOC cover but was told he couldnt because DOC was excluded 
from his policy.
Mr W has used Adrian Flux for his car insurance for a number of years. And he said he has 
always had DOC cover that allowed him to drive the cars of friends and family when needed. 
But DOC was excluded under the renewal policy Adrian Flux arranged for Mr W. Adrian Flux 
said that was because the insurer wouldnt allow a policyholder with an occupation within the 
motor trade to have DOC cover. Mr W complained. He said the sale of the policy was 
advised so Adrian Flux should have told him the policy he took out didnt have DOC cover so 
he could get another policy that did provide that.
Adrian Flux didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint and said it wasnt an advised sale but they had 
merely provided him with the best priced policy with sufficient information to enable Mr W to 
make an informed choice whether the policy was suitable for him. They also said that they 
had told Mr W that he didnt have DOC cover on his policy. Mr W didn't think that was fair so 
he brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Adrian 
Flux had dealt with Mr W reasonably. As Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr W, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ws points carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
When Mr W took out his first policy in August 2017, it included DOC cover. His policy 
renewed in August 2018 with the same insurer. But the insurer excluded DOC cover based 
on the information given to them by Adrian Flux, namely that Mr W had a second job in the 
motor trade. 
I have seen the insurers underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone 
with cover and on what terms. Mr Ws insurers rules say that they wont provide DOC cover 
to anyone who works within the motor trade. And Mr Ws second job was within the motor 
trade therefore the insurer excluded DOC from his policy.
But I have to look at Adrian Fluxs actions to see if they were fair and reasonable. 
I have carefully listened to the sales call Mr W had with Adrian Flux in June 2018 when he 
took out his second policy with a different insurer. Mr W said his full time occupation was a 
supermarket manager. But he went onto say he had a part time job helping out at a garage. 
Mr W didnt say he was a mechanic but the call handler incorrectly recorded his part time job 
as a mechanic. But I dont think that error made a difference. Even though Mr W wasnt a 
mechanic, the fact that his second job was in a garage meant that he worked in the motor 
trade. During that call Adrian Fluxs call handler did tell Mr W that the driving other vehicles 
benefit is excluded from the policy. 
That call related to the other policy Mr W took out with a different insurer for a different car in 
July 2018. It wasnt in relation to the renewal policy Adrian Flux arranged which is the 
subject matter of this complaint. But I think that call is relevant for two reasons. The first is 
that Adrian Flux were the broker for both policies, so I think it was reasonable for them to 
update the records they held for Mr W when he took out the other policy to show he worked 
in the motor trade. And because Adrian Flux arranged the renewal policy a month later for 
the policy that is the subject matter of this complaint, it was reasonable for them to update 
the insurer of the renewal policy that Mr Ws circumstances had changed and that he worked 
in the motor trade. So, it was on the basis of the information Adrian Flux provided to the 
insurer that the insurer excluded the DOC cover.
The second reason why I think the sales call is relevant, even though it related to the other 
policy, is because Adrian Flux told Mr W driving other vehicles benefit is excluded. As      
Mr W said he wanted DOC cover for both his policies, I would have expected him to have 
challenged Adrian Fluxs call handler and to question why DOC cover was excluded. Had he 
done that I think the call handler would have explained DOC cover was excluded because 
Mr W worked in the motor trade. And if that happened and Mr W said he still wanted DOC 
cover, I think Adrian Flux would have looked to try and find an insurer from their panel of 
insurers that included DOC cover as part of their policy. And if none of the insurers on 
Adrian Fluxs panel provided such cover, Adrian Flux would have explained that and Mr W 
would have then been able to decide whether or not he wanted to take out a policy through 
them or go elsewhere. And if that discussion happened, I think its likely that Adrian Flux and 
Mr W would have discussed the policy thats the subject matter of this complaint that was 
due to renew in August 2018 (a month after the sales call). So, that call should have alerted 
Mr W that there was a problem.Before the policy renewed in August 2018, Adrian Flux sent Mr W his policy documents. 
Those documents confirmed that the sale was non-advised. In those documents Adrian Flux 
strongly advised Mr W to read everything carefully as it is that document [the policy], the 
schedule, any certificate of insurance and the policy wording, which are the basis of the 
insurance contract you have purchased. If you are in any doubt over any of the policy terms 
or conditions, please contact us promptly. And on a prominent part of the renewal notice 
under Summary of Cover Adrian Flux said: 
Driving other cars benefit
This policy only covers vehicle registration [car registration]. The driving or riding of 
other vehicles is not included.
And under the Summary of Cover section there was another section headed Important 
conditions. In that section Mr W was told Last year you had the driving of other cars 
benefit, please note that this is no longer available.
Mr W said that he has always had DOC cover and he thinks the sale of the renewal policy 
was whats known as an advised sale. That means Adrian Flux should have advised him 
that the policy he was taking out didnt have DOC cover. But Ive seen that the sale of the 
policy was non-advised. That means Adrian Flux only had to provide Mr W with sufficient 
information to enable him to make an informed decision whether or not he wanted to take 
out the policy offered. And Adrian Flux didnt advise Mr W whether or not the policy was 
suitable for his needs.
I therefore think that given the information Mr W provided Adrian Flux, he was correctly 
identified as working in the motor trade. And the policy Adrian Flux offered Mr W excluded 
DOC cover. Adrian Flux told Mr W that the policy didnt have DOC cover before it renewed 
as it was clearly explained in the policy documentation provided to him. I therefore think 
Adrian Fluxs actions were reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman