DRN-4343127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Metro Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss they
suffered when they were tricked into sending money to an account held with Metro Bank.
Although the loss stems from a payment made from a joint account, for ease of reading, Ill
mostly only refer to Mr B. Mr B has also used a representative to bring his complaint, but
again, Ill ascribe the comments of the representative to Mr B himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr B sadly fell victim to a scam. He
instructed two CHAPS payments in January 2021 from his account with his own bank C.
The payments totalled around £185,300 and were made a few days apart. Both payments
credited the same account held with Metro Bank.
At the time, Mr B believed he was making payments towards an investment bond with a well-
known firm A. But he later learned that A were being impersonated and the payments had
gone to a scammer. He reported this to C who in turn informed Metro Bank. Shortly after this
Metro Bank responded to say that no funds remained to be returned.
Mr B complained to Metro Bank. In essence he didnt think theyd done enough to prevent
the fraud from taking place. He also referenced that a friend of his had fallen victim to the
same scam and had received a partial recovery. He questioned why Metro Bank hadnt
likewise been able to make a recovery?
In summary Metro Bank said all the funds were spent prior to them receiving a notification of
fraud. And they had no other reasons to be suspicious of their customers account prior to
that point. Mr B referred his complaint to our service and one of our Investigators didnt
recommend it should be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a
decision.
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im
issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
Im satisfied that Metro Bank appropriately followed its processes when opening the account
in question. I dont think there were any failings at that time or that Metro Bank reasonably
could have known that the account they were opening would later go on to be used in
connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think Metro Bank could have prevented Mr Bs
loss in that way. I also dont think there was any account activity prior to the arrival of the first
payment from Mr B where Id have expected Metro Bank to have intervened or to have done
more.
Metro Bank have obligations to be alert to potential fraud, scams and the misappropriation of
funds. They are also required to have systems and controls in place in relation to
compliance, financial crime and money laundering. In particular the Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) Systems and Controls Sourcebook (SYSC) includes that A firm must take
reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with
the applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering
the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime. (SYSC 3.2.6R).
Further SYSC guidance includes that A firm should ensure that systems and controls
include: (4) appropriate measures to ensure that money laundering risk is taken into
account in its day-to-day operation. (SYSC 3.2.6G).
In its March 2016 paper Financial Crime: a Guide for Firms the FCA set out that A firm
must conduct ongoing monitoring of its business relationships on a risk-sensitive basis.
Ongoing monitoring means scrutinising transactions to ensure that they are consistent with
what the firm knows about the customer, and taking steps to ensure that the firms
knowledge about the business relationship remains current.
With the above considerations in mind, Im satisfied that Metro Bank ought to have been
monitoring its accounts and that this would include both incoming and outgoing payments.
The first payment from Mr B was for £85,188.10 and it arrived in the Metro Bank account on
22 January 2021. Given the nature and expected use of the type of account that received
the funds, I dont think Metro Bank needed to do more when the funds credited the recipient
account. But following on from this there was then a series of transfers made to another
Metro Bank account (in the same name as the account that had received the funds). The
first four of these are detailed below:
Date Time Amount
22 January 2021 5.24pm £15,600
22 January 2021 8.37pm £9,580
23 January 2021 4.50am £12,563
23 January 2021 9.25am £7,000
By the time the third transfer was instructed this represented nearly half the incoming funds
being transferred out less than 12 hours after they were received. I think this should have put
Metro Bank on heightened awareness about the possibility of misappropriation of funds and I
think its fair to say that the account should have been closely monitored as a result. The
arrival and relatively quick dispersal of funds can be a feature of the movement of the
proceeds of fraud and scams. Its also unusual to place funds onto an account of this type
and then to promptly move them on. The type of account is one that more commonly sees
less frequent activity. And it isnt generally typical activity for money to be credited to such an
account and then to be dispersed soon after.
And by the time of the fourth transfer, I think Metro Bank ought to have blocked the account;
looked more closely at the activity as the potentially suspicious pattern of activity was
continuing; and investigated the activity before allowing the movement of further funds. Idalso have expected them to have blocked the linked account that the funds were being
transferred into at the same time.
Had it taken the above action, Metro Bank would have seen that the additional information
provided with Mr Bs incoming payment indicated that it was intended for A. This clearly
would not have fitted in with what Metro Bank knew about their customer and would have
been an immediate red flag. Metro Bank also would have seen that the funds were quickly
moved again from the account theyd been transferred into which would have added to the
picture of suspicious activity. I think Metro Bank should have contacted their customer and
sought evidence to support that they were the intended beneficiary for the payment theyd
received.
I also dont think it would have been unreasonable for Metro Bank to have contacted C to
ask them to check with Mr B about the reason for his payment. When the scam was reported
on 4 February 2021, Metro Bank attempted to contact their customer but were unable to
speak to them. So, Ive no reason to think things would have been different had they
attempted contact sooner.
But even if the accountholder had responded, I dont think they would have been able to
provide anything which would have both been acceptable and would have adequately
explained the beneficiary name mismatch.
And in either case, I think the majority of the funds Mr B had sent (or would have sent
including the second payment) would have remained available for recovery. Either through
Metro Bank contacting C which would have resulted in the discovery of the scam as Mr B
would have explained he believed he was paying A (who werent the accountholder). A are a
reputable and regulated firm and this had the hallmarks of a cloned investment scam. Id
also have expected a large bank such as Metro Bank to be aware of such scams. Or through
Metro Banks customer being unable to have adequately explained the situation before the
scam report was received on 4 February 2021. The second payment of around £100,000
either would never have been made, or it would have arrived in a blocked account and would
have still been recoverable.
Had Metro Bank done all Id have expected, at the time the fourth payment was requested
(and when the accounts ought to have been blocked), of the first three payments £32,500.22
would have already been spent. And I dont think Metro Bank reasonably could have
stopped that from happening. But I think the remainder of Mr Bs loss could and should have
been prevented. As Ive seen evidence to support that C hasnt reimbursed Mr B with any of
his loss, Im intending to direct Metro Bank to pay Mr B £152,816.13 which represents the
loss I think they could have prevented.
Ive considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility for his own loss due to
contributory negligence, meaning I should make a reduction in my proposed award. And in
the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded I should. The documentation
provided from the scammer appears genuine. Ive also seen evidence of the interaction
between Mr B and C when instructing the payments. But nothing to support that he was
warned of the possibility of a cloned investment scam and continued despite this.
Given this was a form of investment scam, Mr B was clearly looking to invest his money
around that time. And as we cant establish with any certainty what he would have done, had
the money been returned to him at the time, I see no reason to deviate from our usual
approach of also awarding 8% simple interest (yearly). This interest should be calculated
between 1 February 2021 and the date of settlement.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mr and Mrs B or Metro Bank, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
I intend to direct that Metro Bank Plc pay Mr and Mrs B £152,816.13. This is the total of the
payments into the account minus what was spent before Metro Bank ought to have stepped
in (£185,316.35 minus £32,500.22). 8% simple interest (yearly) should be added to this
amount between 1 February 2021 and the date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision. Metro Bank didnt and responded with some 
further comments which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank say that my provisional decision is flawed as Mr B wasnt a customer of theirs 
and as such no legal duty of care exists between them. And even if the funds were paid to 
their customer as a result of deception, then this doesnt automatically entitle Mr B to a 
refund from Metro Bank.
Whilst Ive taken account of the law, our service is not bound by it, instead were tasked with 
reaching an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And this doesnt 
have to be the same position as if matters were being considered by a court. 
I accept what Metro Bank has said, in that the sender of funds isnt automatically entitled to a 
refund from the recipient bank. However, even in the absence of a customer or contractual 
relationship between the parties, or of a legal duty of care, if Metro Bank has failed against 
their various obligations and this can be said to have caused Mr Bs loss (as is the case 
here), I think its fair and reasonable to direct that the loss be reimbursed. I believe Metro 
Bank is already aware of this position as our service has already considered complaints 
about them as the receiving bank some of which were upheld with Metro Bank being 
directed to pay redress. 
Metro Bank have also highlighted that my decision includes no consideration of Mr Bs own 
bank C who they say did owe him a duty of care. This complaint is made by Mr and Mrs B 
about Metro Bank as the respondent. As such, I cant comment on the actions of C here. In 
any fraud case there are always likely to be multiple parties involved. And I cant always 
comment on the actions of other involved parties. Examples of this would be the scammer or 
another unregulated entity or banks outside the UK. So inevitably I have to make a decision 
based on the actions of the respondent to any given complaint. Our rules do allow me to 
point out that a complainant may wish to refer their complaint to another respondent. But 
each complaint must still be considered on its own merit. But to acknowledge the comments 
raised by Metro Bank, Ive already contacted both parties to make them aware of my 
intention to slightly amend the redress outlined in my provisional decision. As I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs B (upon request) to assign their rights against C to 
Metro Bank. This way should Metro Bank wish to try to recover what theyve been directed to 
pay to Mr and Mrs B, from C, they can do so. 
Metro Bank reiterated their position that they acted promptly upon notification of fraud, but by 
that time the funds had been paid away, and so they say they couldnt have prevented this. 
Ive considered this, but the basis of my decision is because I think Metro Bank couldve prevented some of their loss for the reasons set out above, not that Metro Bank failed to act 
when notified. 
Metro Bank have also said that them contacting C would have been outside usual banking 
practice. I maintain that in a situation where a bank is trying to establish whether their 
customer is the intended beneficiary / has entitlement to an incoming payment, when that 
payment has come from another FCA regulated firm, contacting the sending bank is a 
reasonable step for a diligent banker to take. This is something Ive also seen happen 
reasonably frequently across my experience of complaints of a similar nature. So, I dont 
agree it was an unreasonable expectation on Metro Bank here. And even if it were, I still 
dont think their customer would have been able to provide a reasonable explanation as to 
why theyd received payments which appeared to be intended for a large investment firm  
something completely different to the nature of the recipient account.
Metro Bank also questioned my decision to award 8% simple interest, pointing out that doing 
so is discretionary. Ive considered this, but as Ive mentioned above, its clear Mr B was 
looking to invest his funds. And Ive no reason to doubt that had the scam been prevented, 
he would have gone on to invest elsewhere. And where we cant be sure of the exact nature 
and form that investment might have taken; I still think 8% simple interest is a fair rate to be 
applied. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Metro Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B £152,816.13. This is the total of the payments into the 
account minus what was spent before Metro Bank ought to have stepped in (£185,316.35 
minus £32,500.22). 8% simple interest (yearly) should be added to this amount between 1 
February 2021 and the date of settlement. I also think that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs B (upon request) to assign their rights against C to Metro Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman