DRN-1479257
complaint
Mr P complains that BUPA Insurance Limited failed to advise him that he could transfer his 
private medical insurance cover after moving to another country. 
background
Mr P held private medical insurance with BUPA. He left the UK and moved to another 
country. He explains he called BUPA in June 2019 to find out his options, as his policy was 
due to renew the following month. He says BUPA told him he couldnt continue the policy 
without a UK address. He therefore let the policy lapse. 
In September 2019, Mr P took out a new policy with a local healthcare provider (that Ill call 
Company S) which is part of BUPA. He then made a claim for treatment, but found out that 
as it was a new policy, he couldnt make a claim for the first 10 months. Company S told him 
that because hed previously held cover with BUPA in the UK, he could have transferred his 
policy over to them. If hed done this, he would have had continuous cover and wouldnt 
have needed to wait for the 10-month qualifying period to end before making a claim. Mr P 
made a complaint to BUPA. He thought BUPA should have told him of this option when he 
spoke to it in June. 
Initially, BUPA didnt uphold the complaint. But eventually, it agreed to amend his policy so 
that he had continuous cover, and could therefore make a claim without waiting for 10 
months. It waived the premiums he should have paid for July and August 2019, which would 
have been just over £400. Although Mr P accepted this offer, he also thought BUPA should 
pay additional compensation for the time it had taken to resolve the matter. He said hed 
been in a lot of pain, and his treatment had been delayed as a result of BUPAs actions. He 
therefore brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Our service hadnt been 
provided with the relevant calls at this point, but based on BUPAs call notes, he didnt think 
BUPA had done anything wrong. Nonetheless, he thought BUPA had placed Mr P back in 
the position he would have been in, if hed transferred to Company S after speaking with 
BUPA in June. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr P says that when he called BUPA in June, he asked if he could continue his policy once 
hed left the UK. He says BUPA advised him he couldnt continue his cover if he didnt have 
a UK address. 
As we know, Mr P could have transferred his cover to Company S (which is part of BUPA) in 
his new country of residence. So long as BUPA was aware that Mr P wanted to continue his 
cover, I think it should have made him aware of this option. Ive therefore listened to what appears to be the two most relevant calls between Mr P and 
BUPA in 2019  one from January, and the other from June. 
In January, Mr P called BUPA to explain that he was spending most of his time abroad, and 
wanted to know what his options were. BUPA made him aware that he could transfer his UK 
policy to Company S. It explained hed need to call Company S to talk to them about the cost 
of the cover, and the policy coverage  and would then need to request a form from 
Company S in order to arrange the transfer. Mr P understood this. 
In June, Mr P called BUPA and explained his main residence was in a country outside the 
UK. He said hed been told by BUPA he couldnt have the policy anymore because of this. 
He asked to cancel the policy and said hed have to take out some sort of policy in his new 
country of residence. The adviser confirmed Mr P would need to be a UK resident to hold the 
policy. As the policy was shortly due for renewal, Mr P let the policy lapse.
Although Mr P didnt specifically ask BUPA in June what his options were regarding 
transferring his cover, I think BUPA probably could have done more during this call to make 
Mr P aware that he could transfer his cover to Company S. However, I cant ignore that 
BUPA had already made Mr P aware of this option in January. 
Mr P says the information he was given about transferring to Company S in January wasnt 
relevant at the time, because he didnt decide to take residency in his new country until July, 
and didnt need to leave BUPA until then. However, during the January phone call, Mr P 
explained he was a temporary resident in his new country, and no longer a UK resident. He 
said hed been living abroad for many months. Given that he specifically called BUPA in 
January to find out his options because he was living abroad, I think the advice he was given 
was relevant at the time.
In any event, BUPA has since agreed to put Mr P in the position he would have been, had 
his policy been transferred to Company S without a break in cover. That seems reasonable 
to me. BUPA has also agreed to waive the premiums that should have been paid for July 
and August. This amounts to over £400.
Although Mr P thinks BUPA ought to compensate him further for the delay in resolving the 
matter (which he says delayed his treatment), I disagree. I dont think BUPA were at fault 
here since theyd made him aware he could transfer his policy to Company S. And even if I 
did think BUPA were at fault, I would say it has placed him back in the position he would 
have been in, and hes received appropriate compensation as a result of not needing to pay 
two months premiums.
I therefore dont require BUPA to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman