DRN-3081556
The complaint
Mr B says pricing errors in the trading platform provided by Jarvis Investment Management 
Limited (trading as x-o.co.uk)  hereafter referred to as Jarvis  misled, and caused him a 
financial loss in, his Individual Savings Account (ISA) trading.
What happened
Mr B raised his complaint to Jarvis on 20 March 2020 and it featured his trading in two 
specific securities  identified with the tags 3OIS.L and BX4.P. He said he had been trying to 
sell his holdings in both securities since the previous day (19 March) but the platform had 
prevented him from doing so, and he referred to the error codes he received in response to 
his attempts. He was unhappy that the relevant market prices had fallen since 19 March and 
that he had missed the opportunity to sell at 19 March prices.
On 21 March 2020 Mr B added to his complaint by saying a pricing error had affected his 
purchase of 3OIS.L  and, potentially, BX4.P  on 19 March. He said the purchase price 
level for 3OIS.L of $66 was wrongly showing as $0.66, so he had been misled by seeing a 
big profit for the holding in his account based on the latter price  a profit that, based on the 
former/correct price, did not actually exist.
By 23 March, Jarvis responded to Mr B to explain that sales in BX4.P were restricted to limit 
orders only because the security was not listed in London and that the price for the relevant 
trade in 3OIS.L  was displayed incorrectly in the system  and had  since been 
amended . However, he considered the explanation for the latter unhelpful and he 
responded to say the explanation failed to address the point that he had been misled to 
believe the holding was in around £4,000 profit when it was far from such, and that the same 
applied to his position in BX4.P.
In its formal response to Mr Bs complaint Jarvis referred to the background behind his 
overall 3OIS.L position; it noted that he had been trading the security since 18 March, that 
he bought three holdings of the security on this date at price levels between $87.19 and 
$70.22, that in the morning of 19 March first he sold (at the price of $55.52) all the holdings 
he had bought the previous day and then in the same morning he bought three holdings of 
the security at prices $64.15, $69.81 and $66; it said the trade priced at $66 had a post-
market/overnight valuation on 19 March that was based on the incorrect price of $0.66, but 
the valuation during market time (and the live prices) were based on the correct price; it said 
the error was rectified and that the overnight price was provided by a different third-party to 
that who provided its platforms intra-day price.
Jarvis formal response also confirmed that no evidence of attempts by Mr B to sell his 
shares online could be found, that the same applies to the notion of him incurring a financial 
loss  no evidence of that could be found too  and that, had there been an issue with the 
online platform, he could have contacted its dealing desk to trade manually.
One of our investigators looked into the matters and concluded that Mr Bs complaint should 
not be upheld. He supported Jarvis finding that the price error for the relevant 3OIS.L 
holding happened only after hours and he said there was no evidence that it applied intra-
day; he was not convinced by Mr Bs argument that an intra-day negative balance in his 
account proved otherwise, he said a negative account balance does not automatically prove 
a price error; he said only an overnight price error had happened and that had not affected 
Mr B; he noted that Mr B could not prove the attempts he says he made on 19 March to sell 
the shares and that if he faced a problem online he ought reasonably to have used the 
alternative of telephone trading, which he did not do; and he said it is worth noting that Jarvis 
had a relevant contractual disclaimer of responsibility for losses beyond its control (such as 
those caused by the platform problems Mr B alleges).
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. The investigator moved positions within our service and a 
new investigator took over the case. He reviewed the complaint matters and Mr Bs rebuttals 
to the first investigators findings. He explored different findings and, following further 
investigation (and enquiries to both parties), he retained his initial conclusion that the 
complaint should be partly upheld, based on the following main findings: 
There is insufficient evidence to establish Mr Bs claim that he attempted to sell 
holdings through the platform, prior to when he did, but could not do so. His claim in 
this respect should not be upheld.
With regards to the 3OIS.L trade in dispute, evidence confirms that there was a price 
misquote of $0.66. Jarvis argues that Mr B incurred no loss because the trade was 
nevertheless executed at the correct price of $66. However, Jarvis confirms that the 
misquote related to the 19 March trade was identified and then corrected within its 
back office system at 11.45am the following day (20 March), that no notice of this 
was given to Mr B, that in the absence of the error he had enough in his account to 
place the trade without creating a negative balance, that the subsequent trades he 
made before correction of the misquote caused the negative balance and that until 
that correction his account balance would have been higher than it should have 
been.
The above meant, on balance, Mr B relied on an inaccurate account balance to 
continue trading and then, after the correction, found he had traded into a negative 
account balance that he probably would not have done if the account balance at the 
outset had not been inaccurate. There is no evidence to suggest otherwise. Jarvis 
arguments  about Mr B being an experienced trader, about him having traded in 
3OIS.L for a day before the events on 19 March and about him probably knowing at 
the time that the $0.66 price stated in the relevant contract note was an error  are 
noted and agreed, but the point remains that he was without notice of the erroneous 
effect on his account or the steps Jarvis would take to address the error.
Typically, where such a pricing error has affected an account firms would either allow 
the trade to stand with the incorrect price, amend the trade with the correct price or 
void the trade entirely. Jarvis appears to have taken the second option but, on 
balance, the third option (voiding the trade) should have been applied in the 
circumstances, because Mr B was unaware that Jarvis had identified and amended 
the error and it is unfair for him to incur detriments arising from the resulting effect on 
his account (in terms of his subsequent trades and negative balance).
Jarvis terms for the account disclaimed liability for mistakes/errors by third-parties, 
such as the price feed error, but it has not been found that Jarvis should hold such 
responsibility in this case. Instead, the finding is that the manner in which Jarvis 
addressed the price misquote left Mr B disadvantaged and the proposed redress 
seeks to do the same as voiding the relevant trade, but not to compensate for any 
other loss he has claimed.Jarvis retained its disagreement. Mr B also rejected the above outcome and insisted that the 
full claim for financial loss should be upheld. He said Jarvis records should show evidence 
of his attempts to sell the relevant holdings on 19 March, attempts that were hindered by the 
faulty platform, and he said he tried to call Jarvis on that date but could not get through. He 
also highlighted that the matters complained of (inability to sell and pricing error) affected 
other securities he held at the time, so compensation for them should also be addressed.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find as follows:
Mr B admits the lack of evidence, beyond what he has said, that he attempted to 
trade on 19 March but was prevented by error messages from the online platform. I 
understand his assertion that Jarvis should have record of this, but Jarvis has 
confirmed that it does not and I have not seen evidence to suggest that it has misled 
us in this respect. Whilst a firm would be expected to have record of trading activity in 
an account, the same cannot always be said about record of trading attempts that 
were unsuccessful. I accept that if the platform was faulty and if the relevant fault 
meant trading was suspended or blocked, then Jarvis ought reasonably to have 
record of that, but its evidence is that there was no such platform fault so it cannot be 
expected to have record of a fault that does not appear to have existed.
In the absence of such evidence, the part(s) of Mr Bs claim that alleges a financial 
loss because he could not sell holdings on 19 March is unsupported and is not 
upheld. Even if there was such evidence it is unlikely that I would uphold the claim. In 
the circumstances of the case, I am persuaded by Jarvis argument that he could and 
should have used the alternative of calling its dealing desk to place trades manually. I 
appreciate he says he tried to call Jarvis at the time but could not get through. I do 
not doubt that he did, but he arguably should have kept trying until he got through. I 
make this comment because the suggestion from him is that he urgently sought to 
sell the relevant shares, so it is arguable that such urgency should have meant he 
persisted with the telephone calls until he got through.
I do not consider that available evidence establishes a pricing error/misquote in      
Mr Bs BX4.P trade(s) like that in his 3OIS.L trade and I am not persuaded by his 
claim otherwise. That claim appears to be an assumption  which is not supported by 
the balance of evidence  but if he says that the same type of misquote that has 
been treated in relation to his 3OIS.L trade definitely happened to his BX4.P trade(s), 
the information available to me does not appear to establish that.
I agree with the second investigators finding on the price misquote for the 
relevant/offending 3OIS.L trade and with the redress to Mr B that he proposed. I also 
share the same reasoning he gave for his findings.
Jarvis concedes that the correction options mentioned by the investigator  would 
potentially be appropriate if this were an error trade  i.e. had [Jarvis] executed a 
transaction in the market at a different price/quantity to what the client expected 
and/or what was fair. However, the trade in question was not an error trade, it was executed correctly in the market & the resultant back office rebooking of the trade 
was Jarvis amending the clients record to accurately reflect the true position.
Whichever way the matter is viewed, the fact is that there was a pricing error with the 
3OIS.L $66 trade that affected the accounting for the trade on 19 March, that 
remained untreated on that date and that was not identified or resolved by Jarvis until 
around midday on 20 March. It is also a fact that until the error was corrected it 
caused Mr Bs account to show a profit and higher balance that did not exist. As the 
investigator explained, it is this effect that should reasonably be redressed. 
The effect  inclusive of the fact that Mr B was given no notice of the error, its 
identification and/or its correction  influenced his trading at the time to the extent of 
him trading the account into a negative balance. As the investigator said, that would 
probably not have been the case but for the price error that caused the effect. Mr B 
has even referred to some interest that he incurred for the negative balance. 
I am persuaded that the relevant effect extended from when Mr Bs account first 
showed an erroneously inflated balance on 19 March to when, after Jarvis correction 
and after onset of the negative account balance, he mitigated the matter by selling 
the relevant holding (alongside the others he had bought) at a loss on 20 March. On 
balance, I consider Mr B was misled in the matter, it is Jarvis evidence that the 
pricing error happened after (shortly after, it appears) his placement of the trade so it 
was not an error he was notified of at the point of placing the trade. He received no 
notice about it at the time and had to discover it himself after the correction. On 
balance, and despite the points Jarvis has made about his level of trading experience 
and how he ought to have perceived information in the contract note, I do not 
consider that Mr B would have associated his account balance, prior to correction, 
with a pricing error that he probably did not know about. His evidence suggests he 
noted the error upon or after noticing and addressing the accounts negative balance. 
I am not persuaded that Jarvis has established that he knew his account balance 
was wrong at the point the error occurred (and wrongly inflated the balance) or at any 
point prior to onset of the negative balance.
The applicable reasoning is that the detriment caused by the erroneously inflated 
account balance was Mr B being misled to trade into a negative balance and then 
having to repair that thereafter. The erroneously inflated balance was caused by the 
pricing error on 19 March that Jarvis did not resolve until 20 March, and I consider 
that the time in between inevitably contributed to the detriment. Jarvis criticised the 
idea of trying to speculate what Mr B intended with the relevant 3OIS.L trade. 
However, as set out above, I propose no such speculation. Instead, the focus is on 
what would have happened but for the wrongly inflated account balance (caused by 
the price error). Jarvis also said it is being held to ransom for a minor decimal point 
error in the $66 to $0.66 price conflict. Also as set out above, this is clearly not the 
case, the price error is inevitably relevant because of the effect it caused but that 
effect was not minor or negligible given the detriments I have summarised above. 
Jarvis also criticised us for disregarding contractual liability disclaimers for errors and 
for third-parties errors, which it believes applies to Mr Bs complaint. I do not hold 
Jarvis responsible for the third-party pricing feed error that happened in this case. I 
also do not consider that the matter should be viewed as one in which Jarvis is being 
punished in any way or is being held responsible in a punitive context. This service 
does not have a punitive remit, so I make absolutely no finding of punishment with 
regards to Jarvis. The matter should be viewed as one in which Mr Bs position is 
reasonably being redressed in order to treat the unfair detriments (as summarised above) he faced as a directly result of the effect of the pricing error  and as a result 
of being unaware of that error until after detriments had happened. The redress is 
also fairly limited to the relevant single 3OIS.L trade  not  to all the 3OIS.L trades or 
all other trades as he has argued for  in order to reflect the facts that the incorrect 
account balance misled him only after that single trade and the error associated with 
that single trade was what caused the negative account balance. I am persuaded 
that, despite the disclaimers that have been cited, this services fair and reasonable 
approach to cases (and remit) allows for such redress. I acknowledge Mr Bs claim 
for more redress related to the pricing error effect, and I address that in the next 
section.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I uphold only Mr Bs complaint about 
the detrimental effect of the $66/$0.66 pricing error in the offending 3OIS.L trade; but 
I do not uphold his other claims about financial loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation for Mr B is to replicate the effect of the offending 3OIS.L trade (for which 
the $66 to $0.66 price error occurred) being voided. This broadly provides a fair and 
reasonable basis to redress the detriments he unfairly incurred from that trade. 
This is not presented as an exact or comprehensive form of compensation and I understand 
his argument about how the detriments extended to other securities in his account. I 
consider it safe to conclude that, but for the effect of the offending trade on his account, Mr B 
would have behaved differently in his trading. However, it is impossible for me to say 
precisely, or even probably, what he would have done differently, so I consider it unsafe to 
speculate in these respects and will not do so. What Mr B refers to is what happened in the 
context of the offending trade and the negative balance, but what he has not established, 
without the benefit of hindsight, is what would have happened in the absence of the 
offending trade and negative balance. As such, a reasonable compromise is to compensate 
him in relation to the offending trade with redress based on the idea of that trade being 
voided.
To fairly compensate Mr B Jarvis must do as follows:
Mr B sold all his 3OIS.L holdings (including the offending holding) on 20 March 2020. 
Jarvis must calculate an average unit/share price from that sale  the result is 
represented by a.
Mr B bought 86 shares of 3OIS.L in the offending holding. Jarvis must calculate the 
proceeds of selling 86 shares of 3OIS.L at the price of a  the result is represented 
by b.
Evidence in Mr Bs trading activity statement is that his purchase of the 86 shares of 
3OIS.L on 19 March 2020 cost him 4,995.50 GBP. If this is incorrect, then the correct 
purchase cost must be established. If b is less than 4,995.50 GBP/the correct 
purchase cost Jarvis must subtract b from 4,995.50 GBP/the correct purchase cost 
and pay Mr B the difference in compensation.
Jarvis must also calculate and refund any interest payment incurred by Mr B for the 
negative account balance caused in this matter.
Jarvis must pay Mr B interest on the total compensation, at the rate of 8% simple per 
year, from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if it does not pay Mr B the total compensation amount within 28 days of being informed that he has 
accepted this decision. This is to compensate Mr B for any undue delay by Jarvis in 
paying him compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint only for the detrimental effect of the 
$66/$0.66 pricing error in the offending 3OIS.L trade, but I do not uphold his other claims 
about financial loss. I order Jarvis Investment Management Limited (trading as x-o.co.uk) to 
pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman