DRN-2832409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) have unfairly handled 
a claim they made under a Holiday Home Insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs G or EIO includes the actions of respective agents or 
representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, and has been outlined 
extensively by our investigator previously. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs G hold an EIO Holiday Home Insurance policy for a holiday cottage.
They live abroad, and have a property manager (Mrs W), and maintenance person 
(Mr W) look after the property.
In October 2016 there was an escape of water leading to damage in the property.
EIO investigated in November 2016. Its loss adjuster (LA) identified the damage 
was caused by failure of a shower tray within a ground floor en-suite bathroom. This 
led to water saturating timber stud work of partition walls alongside other damage.
EIO accepted the claim (claim one) and a scope of works was produced and 
approved by the LA.
A damp specialist (Mr R) was appointed by Mr and Mrs G. He also visited the site in 
October 2016 and gave advice to Mr W. He subsequently carried out and invoiced for 
damp treatment works. 
Works were completed in May 2017 and carried out by Mr W. These works included 
replacement of the bathrooms fittings, removal and replacement of a wall with new 
insulation and plasterboard, new flooring and pipework alongside redecoration. EIO 
settled respective invoices, and following the repair, the property was then re-let.
In August 2018 another escape of water was discovered (claim two). Temporary 
flooring repairs were carried out by Mr W to allow continued trading. Then during a 
visit in May 2019 dry rot was discovered. 
EIO appointed a surveyor (Company R) to assess the damage. Its report said the rot 
had most likely stemmed from a combination of the 2018 discovered leak, and re-
occurrence of the previous 2016 leak. 
In June 2020 the works were completed, and costs settled by EIO. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to EIO and came to this Service. They said the mismanagement 
of the claims led them to relocate back to the UK in October 2018. And its poor handling of 
claim one led to extensive damage to the property discovered within claim two. They said 
they are seeking £325,000 to account for relocation costs, flights, school fees amongst other 
costs and compensation that they hold EIO responsible for. And they said the claims should 
be considered as one.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
The Investigator was satisfied all necessary investigations and reinstatement works 
were carried out and paid under the terms of the insurance policy including the loss 
of income incurred by Mr and Mrs G during the course of both claims. She also said 
EIO hadnt been provided with any evidence or concerns of dry rot as shed expect 
during claim one, so it had acted fairly in the circumstances.
She wasnt persuaded the claims should be treated as one as the leaks that led to 
them being raised were separate. And she wasnt persuaded EIO needed to appoint 
a project manager for the first claim in light of it appearing to be a straightforward 
matter and having already appointed a LA. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. Ive summarised their key points.
Mrs W had first reported the flooring as weak and spongy which indicated dry rot.
EIOs LA responsibility was to manage the claim within their delegated authority. 
Which included which information needed to be shared with EIO.
They described Mr W as a mere handyman and unqualified to carry out the works 
he did. They said he was appointed by the LA who should have identified his 
inexperience or ability. They also said Mr W and the LA agreed the scope of works 
together. And they hadnt objected to Mr Ws involvement as they believed the LA 
would oversee all necessary investigations and works completed.
Mr and Mrs G said they shouldnt have needed to pass on photos taken by Mr R or 
provide evidence of dry rot themselves, and instead this Service should focus on the 
evidence EIO provided in showing its works were sufficient. 
They reiterated claims one and two were linked and that a project manager shouldve 
been appointed in light of the extent of works.
EIOs LA failed to communicate with Mr and Mrs G for several months due to sending 
correspondence to an incorrect email address. They also never signed a second 
claim form.
EIOs drying contractors were allowed to use powerful drying fans prior to treatment 
of the dry rot, which couldve led to dry rot spores across the property. And requested 
EIO determine what is needed to protect the property from any future dry rot in parts 
of the home that were not renovated.
The investigator looked again, but didnt change her mind, saying:
Mrs Ws observations alone wouldnt be enough to determine dry rot.
The LAs role was to investigate a complex or contentious claim on behalf of the 
insurer  and they are responsible for establishing the cause of loss and whether its 
covered by the insurance policy.
The evidence supported EIOs position that Mrs W confirmed Mr W was the 
maintenance man and carried out all repairs at the property and would be 
undertaking these repairs also. But, whether or not this was the case, Mr and Mrs G 
couldve informed EIO of any concerns or objections at the time. 
She was satisfied EIO kept Mr and Mrs G updated in respect of the claim and the 
scope of works. And if Mr and Mrs G felt they werent being given enough information 
or were unhappy with how the claim was progressing, they couldve raised this at the 
time.She reiterated that Mr Rs findings were never shared with EIO, nor were concerns 
Mr and Mrs G had that they raised with Mr R. And she felt they shouldve shared this 
with EIO for it to be able to consider the matters.
Mr and Mrs G provided another extensive response which included a detailed timeline. The 
Investigator looked once more but didnt change her mind, saying:
The second claim form not being sent to Mr and Mrs G wasnt sufficient to 
demonstrate EIO was trying to hide the true extent of issues. 
She was satisfied the claim being logged with the input of their property manager 
was reasonable and didnt prejudice their position as the sooner the claim was made, 
the sooner losses could be mitigated. And this wasnt raised as a concern at the time.
She didnt agree the claim had been mis-managed therefore didnt believe EIO 
should be responsible for any moving costs incurred by Mr and Mrs G.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs submissions span many pages. Within this decision I wont be responding in 
similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mr and Mrs G have said but I can confirm I have read 
and considered everything said by both parties.
Claim one
After the initial leak was discovered Mr and Mrs G contacted EIO. They put EIO in touch with 
Mrs W and a meeting took place between the LA and her. In light of Mr and Mrs G living 
abroad, it seems sensible their property manager who was present would take on 
responsibilities related to this claim. Mr and Mrs G have since said Mrs W wasnt given 
authority to act on their behalf. However, Ive seen nothing to support any objection was ever 
raised at the time. And given her role as the property manager and that Mr and Mrs G first 
introduced her to EIO, it seems reasonable to me that EIO engaged with her as it did.
The LA met with Mrs W, and EIO says Mr W was introduced by Mrs W as the contractor who 
would outline what works needed to be completed, and who would carry them out. Mr and 
Mrs G have since made comments about the competency of Mr W. However, Ive seen 
nothing to show concerns were raised at the time, and in light of his role as the propertys 
handyman, its unclear to me why Mr and Mrs G would agree to him taking on these works if 
this were the case. 
And overall, I see no reason EIO wouldve been communicating with Mr W without him being 
put forward for the works by either Mr and Mrs G or their property manager. So, Im satisfied 
Mr W was Mr and Mrs Gs nominated contractor for the works.
Mr and Mrs W have said since they only agreed to Mr W carrying out works as they believed 
the LA would oversee the works and ensure they were carried out to the correct standard. But as Mr W was appointed by Mr and Mrs G, I wouldnt expect the LA to be responsible for 
the works unless the LA had intervened to control or significantly change the scope put 
forward by Mr W, beyond agreeing to settle invoices. 
It seems Mr W set out the necessary works which the broad scope of works was then 
agreed with the LA in November 2016. This included removal of the shower tray, 
replacement plasterboard/stud walls, replacement floors and other works. This agreement to 
the scope doesnt persuade me the LA directed Mr W or should be responsible for all works 
he completed. 
Mr and Mrs W appointed Mr R, a damp specialist, around this time. EIO settled an invoice 
for specialist damp proofing treatment but seemingly had little detail of Mr Rs findings and 
had no active involvement in setting the scope of his works. No written report was produced 
or provided to EIO or the LA, but Mr R did take photos and gave advice to Mr W. Mr and Mrs 
G havent disputed that none of Mr Rs findings or photos were shared with EIO or the LA at 
the time.
Its unclear to me why evidence Mr and Mrs G now seek to rely on to show the presence of 
dry rot wasnt provided to EIO at the time of this claim. And in line with their obligations as 
policyholders with a responsibility to mitigate their own losses, I dont think withholding 
information that they themselves deem to be key is in keeping with that obligation. 
Mr and Mrs G have said this Service should ignore Mr Rs findings that were not shared with 
EIO, and instead focus on the evidence EIO has provided instead. While I have considered 
EIOs findings I dont agree it would be fair to ignore a decision to not share this information 
with EIO. 
Alongside this, I also have considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments about Mr W being 
unqualified for scoping or carrying out works of this nature. If this was the case, it seems 
even more unusual to me that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt share the seemingly conflicting 
findings of their own expert, Mr R, with EIO.
Ive also thought about whether the LAs actions more widely. Mr and Mrs G have also said 
Mr Rs invoice referenced dry rot as it included an application of sterilisation and 
preservation paste. This inclusion within the invoice doesnt persuade me the only reason 
for the use of this treatment would be dry rot. And as Ive said above, Id have expected this 
to be explicitly raised by Mr and Mrs G or Mrs W, or their nominated contractor Mr W, if 
discussions around this had taken place and they had knowledge of a concern. 
EIOs LA has said in their opinion they did not see signs of dry rot upon their visit, nor were 
any concerns around this raised. While the LAs view on this may be contested, on balance 
Im satisfied EIO acted fairly in regards to this first claim. Seemingly on the presented facts, it 
appeared to be a simple escape of water claim and the agreed proposed works would put 
this right. I wouldnt expect EIO to have done anything further without being alerted to a 
problem, which it wasnt.
So, Mr Rs evidence doesnt persuade me to hold EIO responsible for any potential works 
that couldve been completed as it simply wasnt informed of the risk or concern.
Mr and Mrs G have also indicated the description of a spongy floor should have led EIO to 
conclude dry rot was present, but I disagree this couldve been determined by this as theyve 
suggested. They also said a project manager shouldve been appointed for this claim by 
EIO. But I dont agree this was necessary in light of the works and damage reported.
Claim two After the second escape of water was discovered in May 2018, Mr and Mrs G referred EIO 
to Mr and Mrs W and provided costs for the repair of works. The LA attended the property 
and again, works were agreed. Some temporary repairs were then completed by Mr W. And 
around this time dry rot was discovered. This was raised with EIO, alongside a report from 
April 2019 from Mr R also highlighting this. 
Company R were appointed and assessed the extent of the damage. Its report said the rot 
had most likely stemmed from a combination of the 2018 discovered leak, and re-occurrence 
of the previous 2016 leak. It said water had spread into areas which were previously invisible 
below the suspended timber floor. It also acknowledged if previous works in 2016 werent 
completed correctly this may have caused the later outbreak, but without being involved it 
was unable to confirm if this was the case. 
As Ive outlined above, Im satisfied EIO handled the first claim fairly in the circumstances. 
So, this report doesnt persuade me otherwise. 
And similarly to our investigator and for the reasons shes given previously, Im satisfied all 
necessary investigations and reinstatement works were carried out and paid under the terms 
of the insurance policy. 
EIO treating these as two claims
Mr and Mrs G have argued EIO should have considered the second claim as a continuation 
of the first. It was during the repairs of the second water leak which led to the discovery of 
the dry rot. The two events of escape of water appear to be separate. And Ive been given 
no compelling evidence to show the second escape of water occurred as a result of the 
original repair being unsuccessful. So, Im satisfied these were two separate claims and EIO 
was correct to consider them as it did.
Handling
Mr and Mrs G have said EIO was responsible for them having to relocate to the UK. I 
understand their feeling on the matter and Ive carefully considered the impact of the claim 
on them, but these arent costs Id expect EIO to cover or pay towards. Having reviewed the 
claims, Im satisfied EIO has largely met its obligations to handle the claim promptly and 
fairly. And in places where there may be slight delays or communication couldve been 
better, these wouldnt be to the extent that I would look to award compensation for.
It seems to me that much of their concerns were raised in hindsight, such as Mrs W acting 
as their delegated authority. But this matter and others simply arent reflected in the 
communication or evidence from the time. So EIO didnt have an opportunity to put things 
right if there was an issue. In addition, it seems to me whether a second claim form was 
provided to Mr and Mrs G has little bearing on this claim, in light of their actions suggesting 
they agreed to the second claim proceeding. 
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman