DRN-2243246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs H were on holiday with their children when their teenage son
became ill. His leg became very swollen and he was admitted to hospital with suspected
septic arthritis. Mr and Mrs H contacted Aviva for help and were asked to send a medical
report.
The report was sent to Aviva but needed translating. On 2 September 2019 Aviva asked for
a quote for the report to be translated urgently. Within a few hours the translation service
responded and asked for clarification on the type of translation needed (a summary or full
translation). The translation company chased Aviva the next morning, but Aviva didnt reply
until later that evening.
In the early hours of 4 September Aviva chased up the report from the translation service
who replied shortly afterwards saying it had already been sent and they were attaching a
further copy. Aviva confirmed cover and contacted Mrs H on 4 September. However, by that
time Mr H had already returned to the UK with his son to seek medical treatment. Mrs H and
their other child returned to the UK as planned on their pre-booked flight.
Mr and Mrs H are very disappointed by the three-day timescale they were given for the
translation, especially considering the seriousness of their sons illness. He was immediately
taken to hospital in the UK and operated on  hes had months of treatment following this
illness. Mr H wants Aviva to pay compensation for the painful flight his son had back to the
UK, without assistance, and the distress caused to the family.
In their final response letter Aviva said they would cover the cost of the new flights subject to
the receipts being provided. Aviva acknowledge there were serious failings in relation to the
delays in handling the urgent translation and the poor level of communication. They offered
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
She thought that the offer of £150 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused to
the family. So, she didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more to put things right. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
In September 2020 I issued a provisional decision which said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Aviva has apologised for what went wrong here. Theyve said there was a procedural 
failure that theyve taken very seriously and, in an urgent case like this, they should 
have got the report translated as soon as possible and the family shouldve been 
kept updated. Aviva told Mr H they agree that didnt happen in this case. Theyve 
explained they have taken this very seriously and will be providing feedback and 
training to the case managers and call handlers involved. Theyve also offered £150 
compensation and, in the final response letter, they said theyd cover the cost of the 
additional flights (subject to receipts being provided).
Im intending to uphold this complaint and award £500 compensation. I also think the 
cost of the additional flights should be refunded. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs H were in an extremely stressful situation and were very 
concerned about their son and his treatment. He was diagnosed with septic 
arthritis  which was consistent with his symptoms  but had been discharged 
from hospital having been told to seek urgent treatment on his return to the 
UK. I note thats consistent with the information in the translated medical 
report. Mr and Mrs H were also worried about the care he was receiving, 
which was different to the information they could see on the NHS website. 
Theyd also witnessed the treatment their son had which involved a large 
volume of fluid being drained from his leg and were worried that hed been 
discharged prematurely
The complications of septic arthritis can be serious and include the risk of 
sepsis, permanent damage to joints and fatality. So, I agree with Aviva that 
this was a case which should have been dealt with urgently as it was time 
sensitive and carried some risks if not handled promptly
In the circumstances of this case I dont think the timescales for translating 
the report were appropriate. It took too long because there was a delay in 
Aviva responding to the translation service, despite Aviva being chased up by 
the translation company. I agree this was serious, given the situation, 
especially as Mr and Mrs Hs son had been discharged and he wasnt under 
medical supervision. They also werent told about the progress with the 
translation which meant they didnt know what was happening or when theyd 
get help
This left Mr and Mrs H in a very difficult position, at an already worrying and 
stressful time. Its not surprising that Mr H took the decision to get home and 
access treatment in the UK as he wasnt getting much support or guidance 
from Aviva and he didnt know when he was going to hear more from them. 
So, I dont think Mr H made an unreasonable decision in the circumstances. 
By the time Aviva had confirmed cover Mr Hs son was already at home and 
back in hospital recovering from an operation
As a result of the delays and poor communication Mr H got his son home 
without assistance. His son was offered a wheelchair by staff at the airport 
because he was struggling so much, but only after hed struggled to walk as 
far as the security gate. And he was in a lot of pain on the flight because he 
was uncomfortable. I cant say that Aviva would have been able to arrange 
extra leg room or a flight home more quickly. But receiving appropriate care 
and support during such a stressful situation would have at least meant Mr H 
and his son would have received an appropriate level of assistance with their 
travel arrangements. I also note that, in any event, Avivas recommendation following the medical report was to bring the family home on the basis that  
even if it wasnt medically necessary  their sons mobility would have been 
reduced significantly.
Putting things right
I think Mr and Mrs H experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the 
delays in getting the report translated which put them in a position where they had to 
make a decision without input from Aviva and get their son home without assistance.
I also think Aviva should cover the costs of the additional flights home subject the 
receipts or proof of payment being provided. They should pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of the claim being submitted to the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Aviva to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr H responded to say that hed also been told that 
Aviva would pay for the medication their son received whilst he was abroad. Mrs H provided 
a more detailed reply and made some further comments. In summary, she said:
They were advised by the treating consultant to return to the UK as soon as possible 
to seek urgent treatment 
The fluid drained from their sons knee was horrendous to look at and it was clear 
this was a serious infection. This was explained to Aviva 
They had no support or guidance from Aviva 
It was insensitive to say that I didnt think Mr H made an unreasonable decision in the 
circumstances 
Aviva didnt confirm cover at any stage 
Her son was blacking out in pain by the time hed reached the security gate and got 
assistance at the airport 
She remains haunted by what might have happened if her son had been refused 
permission to fly  she wants Aviva to be aware that the pilot sat with her son on 
landing as he was so distressed and there was a delay in arranging the lift to get him 
off the plan 
She queried whether Aviva still maintained that it wasnt medically necessary to bring 
her son home 
She still struggles with the events of that day and feels that, were it not for the 
kindness of others, her son got to a hospital in the UK for treatment. She explained 
that he is still having ongoing physiotherapy and has had to apply for benefits to support himself at university. She says that Aviva played no part in any positive 
outcome for him. 
Our investigator contacted Aviva to say that I was also intending to direct them to pay the 
prescription costs and they didnt add any further comments. 
So I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending to uphold this complaint and award the further £500 compensation I referred to 
in my provisional decision, the additional flight costs and the prescription costs if it hasnt 
done so already. 
Ive taken into account the further points Mr and Mrs H have made but Ill focus on those that 
I consider to be central to the outcome of this complaint: 
In my provisional decision I said, I dont think Mr H made an unreasonable decision 
in the circumstances. Im sorry to hear that Mrs H felt my finding on this point was 
insensitive. To clarify, I was agreeing that Mr H made an entirely reasonable decision 
to take his son home bearing in mind the circumstances and what theyd experienced 
by that point in time 
Aviva did confirm that cover was in place on the 4 September via email. However, as 
Mrs H has rightly pointed out by this point theyd already returned to the UK to get 
urgent treatment 
As I outlined in my provisional decision its clear that this was a horrendous 
experience for Mr and Mrs H, and I dont doubt that its had a lasting impact on their 
family. I accept what Mrs H has said both about the circumstances of their sons 
illness whilst abroad, their need to return to the UK urgently and the distress caused 
to her son during the journey home without assistance from Aviva
Aviva did consider it was medically appropriate to curtail Mr and Mrs Hs trip given 
their sons reduced mobility and the medical evidence theyd been presented with 
about his condition 
I also accept that Mrs H is haunted by what might have happened. However, I can 
only take into account what actually did happen rather than what might have 
happened when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. I think Aviva have 
taken into account that there were serious failings here that ought not to be repeated. 
I appreciate that cant erase Mrs Hs memory of such traumatic events, and the 
distress she and her family experienced, but I do hope it goes some way to 
reassuring her how seriously Aviva, and our service, have taken her complaint 
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Avivas complaint handler. She did confirm 
that the prescriptions would be covered and I can see Mr H has provided receipts for 
them. So Aviva should cover those costs in line with any remaining policy terms and 
limits.   
Putting things rightAviva needs to put things right by:
Paying £500 compensation to Mr and Mrs H
Covering the cost of the additional flights 
Covering the cost of the medication it agreed to pay if it hasnt done so already. 
They should pay 8% simple interest from the date of the claim being submitted to the date of 
settlement in relation to the cost of the additional flights and medication.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and directing Aviva Insurance Limited to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman