The complaint
Mr W says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one 12-month instalment loan MYJAR provided to Mr W on 19 
September 2017. The loan was for £1,200 and was repaid on 6 December 2017.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed saying more checks should 
have been done - he had to take out another loan to repay this one, and others, and ended 
up in financial difficulties as a result. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
DRN-1329579I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
MYJAR says it agreed to Mr Ws application after asking for income and expenditure data 
and after completing credit checks and looking at other third party data. And this information 
combined suggested that Mr W would be able to make the repayments he was committing 
to. So, in these circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide the loan.
I accept that Mr Ws circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained via the credit checks. And 
Mr Ws financial position as he now describes it might well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements had been obtained. But MYJAR could only make its 
decision based on the information it had available at the time.
A credit check that a lender carries out can take many forms. Generally, the information a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain 
any differences between the information provided to MYJAR by its credit check and the 
information Mr W thinks it should have seen.
It was the start of a lending relationship, and I dont think it was at the stage where there 
were any indicators that the borrowing might be unsustainable for Mr W. In these 
circumstances, I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to complete a fuller 
financial review.
Overall, I think that MYJAR carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen anything in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a different lending decision.
It follows I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give this loan to Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman