DRN-3043444
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) when 
he transferred four existing personal pensions totalling £137,064.69 to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). 
These funds were split between two different discretionary fund managers, with £66,000 
invested in high-risk investments that subsequently lost the majority of their value. Mr G said 
he wasnt an experienced investor and the level of risk attached to his investments was 
higher than he was prepared to take.
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Alexander Money (AM) -unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
TAM Asset Management (TAM)  regulated discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH)-SIPP provider
Mr G said he was contacted by AM in 2014 who offered to review his four personal pensions 
and told him they werent performing well. AM subsequently introduced Mr G to Pi. 
Mr G signed a letter dated 1 July 2014 to PI saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plans into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan, in order to allow me access a wider range of investments. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider and a Discretionary Fund Manager 
to manage 50% of the investment held within the SIPP, and arrange the transfer accordingly. 
Please note I would like to manage the remaining 50% of my funds so do not require any 
advice on this as I have a separate investment advisor.
I hope that you will be able to assist me and look forward to hearing from you regarding this 
request.
On 4 July 2014 the adviser from Pi replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of the 1st July 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current . Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to 
carry out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the 
most appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
You have requested no advice on the funds in the investments within the SIPP that will not 
be actively managed by the Discretionary Fund Manager.
I will have no input in these funds, as you are using a separate investment adviser for this, 
and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, and transferring your funds into, the 
SIPP.
Mr G signed a service agreement with Pi on 7 July 2014. This agreement indicated the 
service level was limited advice service only.
On the same day four Pension Replacement Contract Forms were also completed. They 
included information about Mr G s existing pensions and the new SIPP, including charges 
and whether the existing plans held any guarantees. The risk category for the SIPP was 
recorded as medium, with an asset allocation being described as managed. This matched 
what was recorded for the existing plans.
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
Other
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was ticked as no. And a note recorded this option 
was discounted because: 
Client setting up SIPP to invest with DFM & also self invest a part of the portfolio himself.
Pi sent a suitability report dated 15 July 2014 and headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer. This said, amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
 
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only 
obtained the necessary information from you to advise on the above area. You should be 
aware that my recommendations may have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your 
financial circumstances.
Objectives
We have not discussed providing you with a target income in retirement or compared your 
existing providers projections. You have simply asked that I find a suitable Investment fund 
for 50% of your existing pension plan and via your SIPP you will self-Invest the rest in line 
with your agreed risk profile..

Your Risk ProfileWe established that your risk profile would lead you to be a medium risk investor.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The adviser outlined the points to consider for a transfer including charges, exit penalties 
(none); guaranteed annuity rates (none) and investment selection. 
It also said the effect of the charges would depend on the investment chosen within the 
SIPP.
The SIPP recommendation section said:
We discussed the various ways you could achieve your present objective as outlined above. 
I recommend that you consider a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan offered by 
James Hay Partnership. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the 
original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of 
service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier.
Discretionary Fund Manager Recommendation
The provider I am recommending is TAM Asset Management
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP and the reason TAM had been recommended as 
the DFM. 
An application for the SIPP was completed and signed by Mr G on 2 August 2014. It showed 
Pi as the financial adviser and the initial adviser charges for transfers was 3% of each 
pension transfer received. 
The SIPP was opened on 5 August 2014. The suitability report was signed to confirm that Mr 
G had received and understood it on 6 August 2014. Funds totalling £137,064.69 were 
transferred from the four pension providers to the SIPP between 14 August to 25 November 
2014.
The application for TAM Investment Proposal was also signed by Mr G on 6 August 2014. A 
medium risk portfolio was selected. £65,000 was transferred to TAM on 3 December 2014.
An application form for HS was signed by Mr G on 28 July 2014. This was sent to JH in an 
envelope franked to show it was sent from Pis advisers address.
The Power of Attorney for HS was witnessed by Pis adviser on 8 December 2014. The 
section Strategy & Risk Profile shows that the option to trade in CFDs (contracts for 
difference) was ticked which was a very high risk and speculative investment.A Knowledge and Experience section which asked if a customer had ever traded in a 
number of more complex investments including CFDs, Options, Derivatives, Commodities or 
Spread Betting was left blank.
The form recorded that Mr Gs annual income was £17,114. The section Current 
Investments showed he had £30,000 in cash savings and £300 in direct equities.
The form had a section entitled Investment Risk and Objectives which said:
Please indicate below your tolerance to short term fluctuations in capital or income by 
ticking one of the following options:
Two options were selected, Medium and High. Medium stated the client had some 
tolerance to fluctuation of capital value and/or current income in normal market 
circumstances. High said, in brief, that the portfolio could be subject to increased risk and 
the possibility of significant fluctuation of capital value. There was the risk of substantial loss; 
potentially in excess of the initial deposit. It said the managed CFD account carried a high 
risk of loss compared to many traditional investments. 
A box was ticked as Yes to indicate that Mr G was willing to invest through a managed CFD 
account and that he was only investing money that he could afford to lose. It said: 
I understand that this is a high-risk speculative product, and that I might lose some or all of 
the funds invested.
£66,000 was invested with HS from the SIPP on 13 April 2015.
Mr G became concerned about the advice hed been given when the value of his SIPP had 
reduced and complained to Pi in October 2018, who didnt uphold his complaint and so it 
was referred to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated it. He recommended that it should be upheld. He said it 
was a very significant change of investment strategy for Mr G to want to self-manage his 
pension when there was no evidence that he had been or was actively managing 
investments. He thought the adviser should have contacted Mr G to get a better 
understanding of why he wanted to proceed with a strategy that appeared to be out of 
character and not consistent with his investment knowledge or experience.
He thought a very high risk CFD account was unsuitable for Mr G. There was no evidence 
Mr G had experience or knowledge of CFD trading. And the adjudicator didnt think taking 
such substantial risks with his pension was suitable for Mr G in his particular circumstances.
Pi disagreed and the complaint was passed for an ombudsman for consideration. Ive 
independently considered this complaint and all submissions from Mr G as well as Pi.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. They also submitted further 
comments on similar cases which are relevant here and which Ive taken into account. 
However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in 
deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. Pis position in summary is that:
Mr G instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider and Discretionary 
Fund Manager (DFM) for 50% of his pension. It only provided Mr G with a limited 
advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature of the retainer 
the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable in full 
compliance with COBS. Any liability could only be in regard to whether a SIPP was 
appropriate for Mr G.
Pi didnt provide Mr G with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr G had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. And the HS forms made it clear the intended 
investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by Pi would have 
changed Mr Gs course of action. 
Mr G had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. They did compliance checks and there were no red flags which should 
have caused them to refuse to arrange the transfer for Mr G.
It accepted that Mr G was not an experienced investor, but the investment strategy 
for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a regulated party. HS is 
responsible for Mr Gs losses and not Pi who only played a very limited role here. 
The fact that HS is now in liquidation doesnt change this.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr G investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr G would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr G did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr G with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr G. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 8 July 2014 and prepared by Pis adviser 
and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the James 
Hay Modular iSIPP for Mr G. 
The suitability report dated 15 July 2014 headed Personal Pension To SIPP Transfer 
which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP and I have acted accordingly.
The report then went onto outline the points to consider. It said In undertaking this transfer I 
would like to draw your attention to the following. It went on to list, amongst other things, the 
charges for the SIPP Pi was recommending, and confirmed there were no exit penalties from 
the original arrangements and that they didnt provide guaranteed annuity rates. It also noted 
that although there was a guaranteed minimum income from the smallest plan, Mr G was 
happy to lose this. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation We discussed the various ways you could 
achieve your present objective as outlined above. I recommended that you consider 
establishing a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan offered by a James Hay 
Partnership. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the original 
research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
When considering a DFM for 50% of Mr Gs pension, Pi stated In order to determine the 
most appropriate offering available I have undertaken research via an independent 
agency
The provider I am recommending is TAM Asset Management
The basis on which I have provided this advice is set out in the Client Agreement,
which I gave you at our initial meeting. The advice provided is also based upon the
information you have disclosed and therefore, if this letter does not match your view of
the situation please let me know.
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr G as well as a DFM. Im satisfied that their 
recommendations here can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr G when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in COBS 
9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Gs instructions. Mr G 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice for 50% of his pension. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the 
switch from Mr Gs personal pension to the SIPP or where 50% of it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product and a DFM for half of Mr Gs investments only. Having 
considered this carefully I dont think it was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP and DFM, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for 
believing that their recommendation would meet Mr Gs objectives and that he was able to 
bear any related investment risks. Mr Gs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was 
the access to a wider range of investments and Pi was aware that more specifically he 
intended to invest through HS and a CFD account and manage 50% of the investments 
himself. 
I consider the risks of Mr G transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr G wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr G was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific SIPP product and the use of a DFM, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Gs wider 
circumstances including how his funds were currently invested and what the intended 
investment strategy would be. Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without 
considering the whole transaction is not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension.. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. Pi says 
the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser was the 
only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Gs 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider, and the 
underlying investment strategy including the use of a DFM. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr G to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr G were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr G s intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr G.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Gs case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr G on the suitability of the James Hay Modular 
iSIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the 
pension switch and where Mr G intended to invest all his funds after the transfer.did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr G with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr G was 50, single, and had an annual income of £17,114. He had £30,000 in savings, 
£300 in direct equities which were acquired via a share-save scheme from his employer. His 
personal pensions were invested in balanced or with profits funds. He didnt have any 
significant investment experience and Pi agree that he couldnt be classed as an 
experienced investor. His retirement age was recorded as 65.
As part of the advice process in recommending a suitable DFM for 50% of Mr Gs pension, 
Pi established the client had a medium attitude to risk. Given his limited experience and term 
to retirement of 15 years, I think this is a reasonable assessment.
Pi was aware that Mr G was intending to transfer his existing personal pensions which were 
invested in balanced, managed funds to a SIPP in order to choose his own funds. They 
knew from the application form he was intending to use HS as his discretionary investment 
manager for 50% of his pension. Pi was arranging the paperwork for the HS account and so 
they knew that Mr G agreed to invest in CFDs which were very high-risk investments and not 
in line with his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report says the adviser discussed Mr G s experience and knowledge and said 
he was an experienced investor, but Pi has since accepted that this wasnt accurate. The 
only high-risk investments Mr G held were shares in his employer, built up via a share save 
scheme, where the risks are usually lower than traditional equity investments, as they are 
purchased at a discount. He no other experience of high-risk investments and wasnt 
particularly knowledgeable when it came to investments. His personal pensions for example 
were invested in medium risk funds. Even if Mr G had suddenly wanted to invest into high 
risk investments, I think its highly unlikely he had the knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in CFDs. 
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the intended investment into CFDs was 
unsuitable for Mr G. If Pi wasnt able to identify this with the information they had, then at the 
very least I think this would have been evident if they had asked Mr G more questions about 
his circumstances-like they ought to have done. In any event, I note Pi have already agreed 
that CFD investments wouldnt have been suitable for retail customers. So I dont think this 
issue is really in dispute.
I also agree with the adjudicator that given Mr G had no real investment experience, Pi 
should have considered whether a switch to a SIPP and DFM in general was suitable. The 
existing pensions he had were invested in line with his attitude to risk and I cant see that 
there was any pressing need to change his provisions, particularly as the DFM would have 
also added to the charges Mr G was paying. No proper comparison was done to see 
whether a SIPP or DFM could in fact provide a better outcome for Mr G than his existing 
pensions. Pi knew that an unregulated introducer was involved and that Mr G wasnt an 
experienced investor, so the fact Mr G wanted to suddenly actively manage his investments 
should have been queried.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP or DFM to Mr G. They should 
have explained that his intended investments in HS were too high risk even if this only 
accounted for half of his pension fund. 
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and helped him arrange the paperwork for investments which were clearly not suitable for him. They didnt pay due regard to Mr G s interests and did not take reasonable steps to 
ensure that their personal recommendation was suitable for Mr G, as per their regulatory 
obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr G were fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances. 
The other 50% of Mr Gs pension was allocated to a medium risk portfolio with TAM. There 
are no concerns with the level of risk attached to the recommended DFM and the funds 
didnt show anything like the level of volatility associated with the investment managed by 
HS. However, Pi couldnt just look at half of Mr Gs funds without considering what was 
happening to the other half. I have already set out, there was no clear reason why Mr G 
needed to move his existing pensions to a SIPP and DFM, when he had no previous 
experience of managing his own investments. Moving four pensions to one SIPP provider 
would serve a function of consolidating Mr Gs pensions, but this would be of limited value to 
the consumer when his pensions werent being actively managed by him up to that point and 
on its own wouldnt be sufficient reason in my opinion to warrant additional charges.
While there are no concerns with the level of risk attached to the DFM, there was no evident 
need for Mr G to switch his pensions at all. 
would Mr G have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that the paperwork Mr G received from HS clearly set out that the product was high 
risk and that he could lose his money. So Mr G would have known the risks and agreed, Pi 
presumes, in the expectation of higher returns. Pi said it was beyond doubt that even if they 
had provided Mr G with risk warnings or refused to recommend the SIPP, Mr G would have 
gone ahead with the transfer regardless.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr G would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered the 
intended investments through HS to be unsuitable for him. 
Mr G has said his first contact with AM was after being cold called with the offer of a free 
pension review. He was told by AMs representative that his pension funds werent 
performing well and he could do better.
Although Mr G may have signed the initial instruction letter, I think it needs to be considered 
in the context that the transaction was initiated by AM. There was no longstanding 
relationship between Mr G and AM and it seems to me that before being approached Mr G 
hadnt planned to change his pensions. 
Its true that the risk of the underlying investment was highlighted in the CFD account 
opening process/forms. However, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
would have carried significantly more weight than the wording in the application forms 
warning the investment was high risk. The consequences of the loss of the pension were of 
great significance to Mr Gs overall financial position. Mr G didnt have the capacity to bear 
significant losses to his pension, which was a real possibility with the investment in the CFD 
account.
So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr G 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments through HS were not 
suitable for his circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt 
afford to risk a large part of his pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to 
proceed. If AM had continued to pressure him, he would have faced a choice between taking the 
advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not persuaded the evidence 
suggests Mr G was so strongly motivated to make the transaction that he would have 
decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. For the reasons I have 
given above, Im satisfied that Mr G would more likely than not have remained with his 
existing pension arrangement if Pi had explained the position in full and recommended 
against the SIPP and investment with HS.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr G. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr G would be invested in and based on the 
information they had they knew it was high risk and investments would include CFDs. Pi had 
already classed Mr G as having a medium attitude to risk and any investment in a very high 
risk product, such as CFDs wouldnt have been suitable for him.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr G with a suitable investment, when they could see from the information 
provided that Mr Gs account would include CFDs which Pi knew were too high risk for their 
client.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr G unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr G more 
likely than not would have remained in his personal pensions. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr G for any losses he 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into high risk investments through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Gs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investments in CFDs were evidently unsuitable for Mr G.  For the reasons I have given 
earlier in the decision, I think Mr G would have likely remained in his existing pensions but 
for Pis failings. So Mr G wouldnt have been in the SIPP or CFD account at all if Pi had met 
its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered the 
investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr G suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr G and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Gs losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service were findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr G are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. 
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Gs loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation. 
In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Gs losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi have confirmed they were aware of the investment strategy which involved a CFD 
account. They knew this was a high-risk and speculative investment product and they had 
already classed Mr G as having a medium attitude to risk. So Im satisfied the real risk of Mr 
G suffering substantial losses and even the risk of total loss of to his pension would or 
should have been foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr G could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr G suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.
I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr G as far as possible in the financial position he would be in 
but for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr G wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr G. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr G s losses flowed from PIs failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr G for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Gs losses my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mr G would more likely than not have stayed in his 
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the 
SIPP.
Pi should request notional values from Mr Gs previous pension providers. Pi should 
calculate compensation by comparing the value that Mr Gs pensions would have been at the date of my final decision (Value A) with the value of his SIPP (Value B) on the same 
date.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss. 
When calculating Value A, any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP 
should be deducted from the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be 
added to the Value A calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr G hasnt yet taken any tax-free 
cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to their likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr G £250 for the distress suffered when he realised 
he had lost significant parts of his pension.
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation 
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Mr G within 28 days of us notifying Pi 
Financial Ltd that Mr G has accepted my final decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr G how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr G in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr G compensation aa set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman