DRN-3462688
The complaint
Mr G complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) delayed sending him a cheque for the closing balance 
of his account, and when it did, failed to pay him £50 for the inconvenience it caused as 
promised.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr G asked for his savings account to be closed and the funds in it returned to
him by cheque. TSB say it sent this cheque to Mr Gs nominated address. Mr G says it
wasnt received. Mr G says around that time he asked for the cheque to be sent to a public
organisations address instead of his residential one.
In September 2021, Mr G approached this service and said he hadnt received the cheque.
The complaint was passed to TSB to look into. In December 2021, Mr G contacted this
service and said he had received his closing balance but had not received £50 that was
promised to him by TSB as compensation for the inconvenience this matter had caused.
Mr G has another complaint under a different reference at this service. That complaint deals
with this account being placed under review and blocked. This decision will make no findings
which relate to the merits of that complaint.
So, to be clear, I will only be considering TSBs actions in relation to releasing and sending
Mr G a cheque once it had agreed to do so, and whether it promised to pay him £50 for any
trouble or upset caused.
TSB didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In two separate responses it said it had complied with
Mr Gs instruction on sending the cheque  and that it had not promised compensation for
any inconvenience it may have caused.
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Gs complaint. In summary, they said they
couldnt see any evidence showing Mr G had been promised £50 compensation by TSB.
As Mr G remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint
Mr G, so Ill explain why.
Mr G has confirmed he isnt no longer complaining about any issues or delay with receiving
his cheque. Despite this, and for the sake of completeness, Ive considered this point.
TSB have sent me its internal records which show it had agreed to send Mr G a cheque
payment in late 2020. Ive also seen a letter from Mr G dated December 2020 to TSB which
asks for the cheque to be sent to a different, public organisation, address. TSBs internal
records show this was done too.
It's not clear what happened until late 2021 when Mr G got in touch with this service about
not receiving the cheque. Given what Mr G has told us about his personal circumstances, its
possible he didnt chase this up any earlier because it wasnt possible for him to do so.
Following this services intervention, Mr G received his cheque for the closing balance of the
account several weeks later. Having seen the evidence I have, and knowing Mr Gs
circumstances, I dont think TSB made an error or caused avoidable delay in attempting to
send a cheque for the closing balance to Mr G.
Mr G says he was promised £50 for the inconvenience this matter caused him by TSB. Hes
also named the staff member he says said this to him. TSB say it has searched it systems
for evidence of this and havent found anything. It has also spoken to the staff member Mr G
says said this to him. That individual says they only write to the banks customers and they
didnt say anything to this effect to Mr G.
TSB have given me its internal records. And having looked through them carefully, I havent
seen anything that suggests it agreed to pay Mr G £50 compensation. I also dont have any
reason not to place any weight on what TSBs staff member has said. I also think its unlikely
that individual, because of the seniority of their role, would have spoken or emailed Mr G on
a one-to-one basis.
So, it follows, Im persuaded its more likely TSB didnt agree to pay Mr G £50 in
compensation for any inconvenience it may have caused. And, as Ive already alluded to, I
make no award for compensation. Thats because I dont think TSB caused avoidable delay
or made any error in sending Mr G his closing balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman