DRN-3541673
The complaint
Ms M complains that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) mis-sold her mortgage.
 
What happened
In April 2020, Ms M contacted MAB for advice on a re-mortgage as her current mortgage 
product was coming to an end. 
She says in an initial telephone appointment she explained that she was looking for the best 
possible price for her re-mortgage and that she was considering renting her home out in the 
next couple of months. She says she also explained she was potentially moving abroad in 
approximately two years and therefore would require a mortgage with reasonable letting 
terms and flexibility. Ms M followed this up in writing on 16 April 2020. 
MAB says a further call took place on 20 April 2020 where Ms Ms circumstances and goals 
were discussed in more detail. And that using the information it obtained in this call, it 
produced an initial mortgage illustration for a capital repayment mortgage with a lender. 
There were concerns that the lender may add an additional 1% onto the agreed interest rate 
if Ms M asked to let out the property  but MAB later confirmed that the lender had said if 
consent to let is granted, Ms M would be able to keep the residential rate. 
Ms M asked further questions around the monthly payment being higher than her current 
mortgage and the exit fees associated with both fixed interest rate and tracker rate products. 
She eventually agreed to proceed with the mortgage on 29 May 2020 following sufficient 
answers from MAB.
At this point MAB checked to ensure the mortgage Ms M wanted to proceed with still had the 
best interest rate for her. It identified that it didnt and that a different lender now had a lower 
interest rate. MAB produced an illustration for the new lender and Ms M queried about 
consent to let still being available without hassle, as this was the main factor at present. On
3 June 2020 MAB confirmed the new lender wouldnt increase the rate if consent to let was 
agreed. Ms M agreed to proceed with the mortgage on 8 June 2020.  
On 8 June 2020, MAB produced its Mortgage Suitability Report  Your Mortgage 
Requirements  outlining its recommendation and this was sent to Ms M. The lender 
approved the mortgage and on 16 June 2020 issued Ms M with a mortgage offer. 
Unfortunately, Ms Ms name was incorrectly spelt on the mortgage offer, so she contacted 
MAB to have this amended on 22 June 2020. 
MAB contacted the lender on 23 June 2020 to have the offer amended. In the meantime, 
Ms M spoke with the solicitors and lender directly. She explained to MAB she had been 
advised that due to the incorrect spelling of her name by MAB, a valuation needed to be 
arranged as a direct consequence. Ms M arranged a survey for 1 July 2020 and following 
this a new mortgage offer was issued on 10 July 2020 with the re-mortgage completing on 
12 August 2020. 
In August 2020, Ms M tried to switch her mortgage to consent to let but was informed by the 
lender that this wouldnt be possible. Ms M has said that the lender explained the mortgage 
she took out doesnt allow changes for the first six months. Unhappy, Ms M raised a 
complaint with MAB as she felt her mortgage had been mis-sold. 
MAB responded explaining that it didnt think the mortgage had been mis-sold. It said the 
evidence on file indicated that Ms M didnt intend to let her property immediately and the 
lender does offer consent to let as Ms M required  subject to an application. It said had it 
been clear she wanted to let the property immediately, it would have arranged a buy to let 
mortgage instead. It acknowledged the incorrect spelling of Ms Ms name had caused 
delays. In recognition of this, it offered £131.68 for the additional costs incurred and £250 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think MAB had acted fairly. They 
concluded that MAB had mis-sold the mortgage, as it was clear Ms M always intended to 
rent the property following the new mortgage completing. And it hadnt informed Ms M of the 
six-month restriction before consent to let could be agreed or the associated fees. They said 
because of this Ms M had lost out on potential rental income. In resolution of the complaint 
the Investigator recommended that MAB:
- Pay Ms M the expected profit per month from the rental income from September 
2020 until the end of the fixed rate mortgage product.
- From this amount deduct the costs involved in renting the property out. 
- And then pay 8% simple interest on the final amount for Ms M not benefitting from 
the funds.
- Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
MAB disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 5 May 2022 where I said:
Ms M says that during an initial telephone call with MAB she made it clear that she was 
looking for the best possible price for her re-mortgage and that she was considering renting 
her home. Therefore, she says she was looking for a mortgage with reasonable letting terms 
and flexibility.
MAB says that following the initial telephone call a subsequent call took place where more 
detailed discussions were had. It says that during this call Ms M advised that she was 
considering letting the property due to her long-term travel plans but due to external factors it 
may not be realistic in her original timeframes. It says Ms M confirmed she was living 
between her home and her partners, but she did not expect her residential status to change 
until 2021 at the earliest.
Unfortunately, Ive not been able to listen to either of the calls outlined above, so I cant say 
with any certainty what was discussed. However, I have been provided with various 
documents from the time Ms M approached MAB to arrange a mortgage for her.
Ive seen a copy of the email Ms M sent MAB on 16 April 2020 following her initial telephone 
call. In this email she explains she has been giving consideration to renting the property out 
in the next couple of months. However, she explains that it is all tentative at this stage, but it 
would be helpful to consider mortgages with reasonable consent to let terms and not 
exorbitant additional interest. She also explains it is likely she will move abroad in the next 
couple of years  if not before  so would like decent flexibility in the mortgage as well.Ive also seen copies of emails between Ms M and MAB when discussing the different 
mortgages. In these there are various discussions around consent to let and if Ms M applied 
to let her property, whether her interest rate would increase  which MAB confirmed would 
not be the case and she would retain her residential rate.
MAB has also provided a copy of its Mortgage Suitability Report - Your Mortgage 
Requirements. This was sent to Ms M before she took out the mortgage and asked her to 
check the details to ensure they were correct, as if they werent it could affect MABs 
recommendation. This document outlined that Ms M intended to remain in the property as 
her main residence and if in the future she decided to let the property she would need 
permission from the lender. It also detailed that Ms Ms preferences for a new mortgage 
were to fix the monthly payments to avoid any rate increases, have an initial rate on the 
mortgage for no longer than two years and to incur no legal fees and valuation fees to keep 
the upfront costs down.
Having reviewed these documents, I think its clear that Ms M had the intention of eventually 
renting the property. Whilst the conversations around consent to let focussed solely around 
whether there would be an increase to the interest rate, I also think MAB had a duty of care 
to ensure Ms M fully understood when she would be able to apply for consent to let  
especially considering the emphasis she had put on the terms during her correspondence 
with MAB. And I cant see that MAB made it clear that the lender it was recommending 
would not allow consent-to-let until six months had passed. With this in mind, I think Ms M 
should be compensated for the unclear information she was given with regards to consent to 
let by MAB. But I dont agree that Ms M should receive the loss of rental income she says 
she has suffered because of this.
Whilst Ms M may not have been able to apply for consent to let as soon as she had 
intended, she still had the option to move forward with letting the property following the initial 
six-month period. However, Ms M chose not to do this, and I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold MAB responsible for any potential loss of rental income. I say this 
because consent to let firstly needs to be approved by the lender, which isnt guaranteed, 
and there is no certainty that Ms M would have either been able to find tenants for the 
property or rent it for the amount she has indicated she may have been able to.
I understand that Ms M has also explained that if she had been given correct information 
that she couldnt apply for consent to let for six months  she would have sought a buy to let 
mortgage and therefore been able to rent out the property sooner. However, I disagree 
because I think its clear from the documentation and correspondence at the time that Ms M 
wanted to avoid an increased interest rate on her mortgage. So, I think it unlikely she would 
have chosen the more expensive buy to let option.
Ms M has also mentioned an annual fee of £225 that the lender charges to anyone who has 
consent to let agreed. Again, I think MAB should have provided information to Ms M about 
this when taking the mortgage out, but I dont think it is unreasonable that she pays this if 
she decides to proceed with letting out the property going forward. This is a fee imposed by 
the lender and would always have been payable. The alternative would have been for Ms M 
to apply for a buy to let mortgage, which as I have explained, I dont think it likely Ms M 
would have done.
It should be noted that as part of Ms Ms submission to our service she explained that during 
a recent phone call with the lender, it explained that there were certain restrictions with 
letting a property, and that if Ms M wanted to let the property there would be an increase to 
the interest rates  which she argues is contradictory to what she was told by MAB and 
further supports the mortgage was mis-sold. Having read Ms Ms submissions and the 
submissions from the lender to both our service and MAB, Im satisfied that the lender correctly explained to MAB that if Ms M changed her mortgage to consent to let the interest 
rate would stay the same. Having read the information Ms M has provided this relates to a 
buy to let mortgage which would be an entirely separate application and mortgage from the 
lender agreeing to consent to let.
I also note in Ms Ms submissions to our service that she mentioned the need for the 
mortgage to be flexible and that its not because it has an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Having reviewed the emails between Ms M and MAB before the mortgage was agreed, I can 
see she emailed MAB to enquire about the ERC so she could confirm her understanding and 
weigh up the benefits of a fixed rate and a tracker rate. MAB confirmed her understanding, 
so Im satisfied Ms M was aware of the different options available to her before making an 
informed decision to proceed with a mortgage product with an ERC.
MAB has offered £250 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and takes into account the 
inconvenience Ms M has suffered by finding out her plans to let the property would need to 
be delayed  and that there would be a fee to do it.
MAB have also offered Ms M £131.68 that she requested for the additional costs she says 
she incurred because of the delays with the application. MAB dont dispute that problems 
with the application caused delays, so I think its offer to pay the amount Ms M says she 
incurred is reasonable.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to raise 
by 2 June 2022. 
MAB responded accepting my provisional decision.
Ms M didnt agree to my provisional decision and provided a detailed submission outlining 
her reasons why. I wont detail every point Ms M included in her submission but have 
summarised below the points which I consider are relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
She said she didnt recall the second more detailed call with MAB taking place and disputes 
the contents of the call as it cant be listened to. Therefore, she disputes what MAB outlined 
was said in the call with regards to her not changing her residential status until 2021.  
Ms M disagreed that she purposefully took a residential mortgage as it had the best interest 
rate and said she was always clear of her intention to secure a product which met her 
current needs at the time of inception  residential  and that she was always clear about 
her need for suitable flexibility to change to buy to let in the near future. Ms M refuted that 
she would not have initially sought a buy to let mortgage and rented the property sooner on 
the basis it was more expensive. She also disputed the suitability report as it was inaccurate 
and didnt represent the conversations she had at the time with MAB. 
She said she stated to MAB on 3 June 2020 that consent to let was the main factor at 
present and that MAB hadnt provided her with correct information with regards to the six 
month passage of time needed before consent to let could be granted. She said she also 
wasnt told that consent to let would need to be approved by the lender, which wasnt 
guaranteed. Therefore, she didnt feel the compensation offered fairly compensated her for 
this failing and the clear mis-selling of her mortgage. 
Ms M explained she didnt proceed with letting out the property due to obligations and further 
financial outlay which she hadnt budgeted for, including the risk of redundancy from her 
employer and an unknown personal economic circumstance. She said because of these reasons she was left with no option but to put the flat up for sale  explaining the mortgage 
had mis-sold. Ms M also said she provided contemporaneous documentation which illustrate 
the amounts the letting agency said she could achieve by letting the property out  and that 
the property fell in a desirable area with buoyant and high monthly rental. Therefore, she 
said it was probable she would have found tenants. She also said she was further mis-sold 
her mortgage because MAB didnt make her aware of the fee the lender would impose if she 
were to apply for consent to let.
Ms M also raised concerns about the information she was given by the lender with regards 
to consent to let. She said that she was informed by the lender that the interest rate would 
increase by 0.75% if she were to apply for consent to let and it was agreed
She also explained she had clearly asked for the mortgage to be flexible and the end 
product wasnt. As such she has incurred an ERC and feels this should be refunded to her 
along with an increase to the compensation already offered to £500  giving a total 
settlement of £2,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that Ms M says that during an initial telephone call with 
MAB she made it clear that she was looking for the best possible price for her re-mortgage 
and that she was considering renting her home. Therefore, she says she was looking for a 
mortgage with reasonable letting terms and flexibility. 
I also explained that MAB says a further telephone call took place where more detailed 
discussions were had. It says that during this call Ms M advised that she was considering 
letting the property due to her long-term travel plans, but because of external factors it may 
not be realistic in her original timeframes. MAB says that Ms M confirmed in this call that she 
was living between her home and her partners, but she did not expect her residential status 
to change until 2021 at the earliest. 
Ms M says she doesnt recall the second call with MAB and disputes the content of the call 
as it cant be listened to  specifically what MAB has said about her residential status not 
changing until 2021. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive not been able to listen to either of the calls outlined 
above, so I cant say with any certainty what was discussed. This means I cant confirm what 
either Ms M or MAB said happened in either call. However, as Ive said, I have been 
provided with supporting documentation from the time of the application.
Following the initial call, Ms M sent a follow up email on 16 April 2020 confirming what she 
was looking for with her mortgage. Ive read this email and Ms M explains that she is looking 
for the best possible price and has given some consideration to renting the property out 
within the next couple of months. She says it is all tentative at this stage but that it would be 
helpful to consider a mortgage with reasonable consent to let terms and not exorbitant 
additional interest. She goes on to explain that it is likely she will move abroad in the next 
couple of years, if not before, so would like decent flexibility in mortgage products such as no 
penalty for paying earlier. 
Having read this email, I dont think Ms M gave any definitive plans that she would be 
looking to let the property out immediately after securing a mortgage  or within the first six 
months. I agree that she gave indication she was considering letting the property, so would like a mortgage with reasonable consent to let terms, but she said her plans were tentative  
in other words not certain or fixed. Ive also read the emails that Ms M and MAB have 
provided in relation to her application. I do think its clear that Ms M had the intention of 
eventually letting the property, as much of the conversations focussed solely around consent 
to let and whether there would be an increase to the interest rate. However, in none of the 
emails before completion of the mortgage does Ms M give an indication she was looking to 
let her property out immediately after securing a mortgage  or within the first six months. 
She also doesnt mention the need for flexibility to change her mortgage to buy to let in the 
near future.
MAB has also provided the fact find, fact find notes and Mortgage Suitability Report  Your 
Mortgage Requirements  for Ms Ms application. I understand that Mr M disputes the 
content of the Mortgage Suitability Report as she feels it is inaccurate and didnt represent 
the conversations she had. However, the Mortgage Suitability Report and the fact find are 
documents which were completed at the time of the application, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest they are inaccurate as Ms M has suggested. 
In addition, the Mortgage Suitability Report was sent to Ms M on 10 June 2020 (after Ms Ms 
initial call) and MAB asked that she read the document to ensure she fully understood the 
recommendation it was making and to check the details were accurate  as if the detail were 
inaccurate, it could affect MABs recommendation. I would expect any customer to read this 
report as its an important document which sets out the reasons why a mortgage is being 
recommended. If there was any inaccurate information in the report as Ms M has suggested, 
I would have expected her to raise this at the time before agreeing to take out the mortgage. 
The Mortgage Suitability report outlined that Ms M intended to remain in the property as her 
main residence and if in the future she decided to let the property she would need written 
permission from the lender to do so. It also detailed Ms Ms preferences for a new mortgage 
were; to fix the monthly payments to avoid any rate increases, have an initial rate on the 
mortgage for no longer than two years and to incur no legal fees and valuation fees to keep 
upfront costs down. 
The fact find notes indicate that Ms M wanted to fix the mortgage for two years as she may 
sell after this time and buy with her partner. It details that Ms M is currently living between 
her flat and his home so wanted a degree of flexibility, but if that doesnt work out she would 
not look to sell and re-mortgage the property. It also detailed that Ms M said she may ask for 
consent to let after a year if she decides to move into his property and that MAB explained 
she would need to apply to the lender to do this. 
I think its clear from Ms Ms correspondence that she had the intention to let out the property 
at some point in the future. However, as Ive said there is nothing to indicate she told the 
advisor this would be within the first six months, which I think is further supported by the 
notes taken at the time with the fact find, that indicates she gave a timeframe of a year. The 
fact find and Mortgage Suitability Report also support that she was told she would need 
permission from the lender to do this as well. 
I understand that Ms M had also said that the mortgage didnt meet her needs as it has an 
early repayment charge (ERC)  therefore isnt flexible. As mentioned, the Mortgage 
Suitability Report outlines Ms Ms preferences for a mortgage was to fix her mortgage 
payments to avoid any rate changes and also have an initial deal for no longer that two 
years. Ive also read correspondence between Ms M and MAB where she enquires about the 
ERC on the mortgage to confirm her understanding so she can weigh up the benefits of a 
fixed rate and a tracker rate  which MAB confirmed was correct. Whilst I appreciate that 
Ms M would incur an ERC if she exited the mortgage early, Im satisfied she was aware of 
the different options available to her before making an informed decision to proceed with a mortgage product with an ERC  and that the product chosen meets her preferences 
outlined above. 
Based on the above I think MAB sourced a mortgage which was suitable to the preferences 
Ms M had outlined she wanted from a mortgage. More specifically, the mortgage had 
consent to let terms and whilst she may not have been able to apply for this when she 
wanted, immediately after the mortgage, Ive found nothing in the evidence to suggest she 
made it clear to MAB she would be looking to let the property out in the first six months  the 
documentation actually suggests otherwise. 
Ive also found no evidence to suggest MAB made her aware she couldnt apply for consent 
to let in the first six months, and that there would be a fee, before she proceeded with the 
mortgage. Whilst I dont think this means her mortgage was unsuitable, I do think Ms M 
should be compensated for not being told this information initially, as its clear shes had a 
loss of expectation and been caused distress and inconvenience because of this. As Ms M 
didnt proceed with letting out the property, she has not incurred the annual £225 fee the 
lender charges to anyone who has consent to let agreed  therefore she hasnt suffered a 
loss associated with the fee. MAB has offered £250 which I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint as it takes into account the inconvenience Ms M has 
suffered by finding out her plans to let couldnt happen in the first six months of her mortgage 
 and that there would be a fee if she did apply. 
I understand that Ms M has said she didnt proceed with letting out the property due to 
unforeseen personal economic circumstances, so ended up having to put the property up for 
sale. I also appreciate that Ms M has provided documentation illustrating what she could 
potentially have achieved by letting the property out. However, in order to consider making 
an award for loss of rental I would first need to be satisfied the mortgage was mis-sold  
which as Ive said I dont think it was. 
Ms M has also raised concerns about the information she was given by the lender with 
regards to consent to let. She said the lender told her that the interest rate would increase by 
0.75% if she were to apply for consent to let and if it was agreed. As explained in my 
provisional decision, Ive reviewed Ms Ms submissions and Im satisfied what she was told 
about interest rates increasing relates to a buy to let mortgage, not consent to let. This has 
been further supported by information from her lender where they have confirmed that her 
interest rate would not increase if it agreed to consent to let. 
As outlined in my provisional decision, MAB have also offered Ms M £131.68 that she 
requested for the additional costs she says she incurred because of the delays with the 
application. MAB has agreed to pay this amount and dont dispute that problems with the 
application caused delays. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer by Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay £131.68 for 
additional costs and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited should pay these amounts to Ms M if not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman