DRN-2826771
The complaint
Mrs M complains about charges MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) asked her to pay 
when she returned a car at the end of a lease. She also thinks they were wrong to record a 
default on her credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the charges
The letter MotoNovo sent Mrs M in September 2020 clarified that the outstanding charges 
were £436.34. Whilst I understand there was some confusion over the charges in the 
preceding weeks I think its clear there were always going to be charges and that much of 
the confusion was because some of the charges were waived by MotoNovo. 
The charges are for a damaged door mirror (£42); a scratch to the rear door (£55) and a 
charge of £339.34 for a missing parcel shelf.
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) set the industry standard for 
what is considered fair wear and tear on a vehicle being returned at the end of its lease. I 
understand that Mrs Ms car was about three years old when she took receipt of it and Ive 
considered whether it is likely it would have had the damage to the door and the mirror 
housing when it was supplied to them. If think Mrs M would have noticed that damage and 
complained about it if it was present so Im persuaded it wasnt there at the onset of the 
agreement.
Im also not persuaded it is most likely the damage occurred whilst the car was in transit to 
the inspector or whilst waiting for inspection. The car was in Mrs Ms possession for much 
longer and there would have been significantly greater opportunity for the damage to occur.
The BVRLA guidance says that damaged mirror housings are not acceptable and that 
surface scratches less than 25mm in length are acceptable if the primer isnt showing. I think 
there is damage to the mirror housing, and I think there is primer showing on both scratches. 
So, I think MotoNovo were fair to make the refurbishment charges that they did.
On balance, I think its unlikely there wasnt a parcel shelf in the car when it was supplied to 
Mrs M. I think she would have been likely to notice that, if not initially, then very soon after 
the agreement had started. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask MotoNovo to remove that 
charge.
The terms of the finance agreement that Mrs M had with MotoNovo asked her to return the 
car in good and substantial order and I dont think that can be said to have been the case 
if the parcel shelf was missing.
the default
Before a default is registered the relevant legislation says a notice of default should be 
provided. That notice must specify:
the nature of the breach; 
what action is required to remedy the breach and the date before which that action is 
to be taken;
if the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach and the date before it is to be paid.
The legislation also goes on to explain that the date the action is to be taken must not be 
less than 14 days after the date of service of the default notice.
MotoNovo havent provided a copy of any Notice of Default. The letter they sent Mrs M on 
3 September 2020 said, If we do not receive a payment within the specified timescale (14 
days) your account will be passed to a debt collection agency who will contact you to 
arrange payment of the above amount in full. It didnt comply with the relevant legislation to 
qualify as a notice of default and I think that MotoNovo were therefore wrong to report a 
default to Mrs Ms credit file. They should remove it.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded that MotoNovo should remove any of the charges they have sought to 
levy in their letter of 3 September and that Ive listed above.
But I dont think they were fair to register a default on Mrs Ms credit file. They should 
remove it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to remove the default they have registered on Mrs Ms credit file.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman