DRN-3063066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their claim for damage 
from an escape of water at their home under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In order to assess and manage Mr and Mrs Hs claim AXA appointed loss adjusters, who in 
turn appointed contractors to re-instate the property. A schedule of work was provided 
following a site visit in March 2020, and repairs commenced.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with the repairs. The loss adjusters re-inspected the property 
in September 2020 to assess the remaining works and said it would carry out a list of 
specified repairs.
Mr and Mrs H complained that dealing with the claim took far too much time and their work 
was affected. They said there are many outstanding issues to be resolved, as follows: the 
restoration of two mainline telephone sockets and the breakfast bar in their kitchen; fitting 
the correct kitchen down lights; making the water softener accessible; replacing the French 
doors with equivalents to those damaged; replacing the under stairs cupboard doors and the 
screws in the electrical sockets; re-laying of uneven floor tiles; finishing the positioning of the 
dishwasher and washing machine waste pipes; fitting the cover for the broadband cable; 
securing the wine cooler door; fixing non-working central heating radiators and non-matching 
valves; fitting flush the washing machine door and the bottom drawer of the breakfast table.
AXA said the contractors returned several times for additional work and to make changes, 
but some of Mr and Mrs Hs concerns relate to private work, such as upgrading the kitchen 
worktop. AXAs loss adjusters then provided a schedule of works to conclude the claim. AXA 
apologised for the delay in its rent payment and paid Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs H remained dissatisfied with AXAs response and brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said AXA 
isnt responsible for all the work Mr and Mrs H had complained about as the work had been 
carried out satisfactorily or wasnt required. He said AXA should carry out the following work:
install the missing internet master sockets. 
Move the water softener to a more accessible position.
Change the screws on the electrical sockets installed or repaired by AXA. 
Cover the rest of the pipe which is outside the kitchen window in conduit.
Move the broadband cable box back to its original position. 
Replace two radiator valves so they match the other radiator valves.
Install the door locks and handles that are yet to be installed on the French doors.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with some of the investigators findings. They said his suggestion 
they take up with the contractor the issue of their kitchen worktop ignored that the contractor 
was AXAs responsibility. They said floor tiles were uneven and needed replacing. They said 
the kitchen downlights werent of the required quality and AXA hadnt installed the correct 
French doors and hadnt paid them for re-fitting the blinds. 
AXA also disagreed with the investigator. AXA said the broadband cable and mainline phone 
socket installed were in line with what it had previously proposed and alternatives would 
need to be installed by service providers. It asked if the water softener had to be moved to a 
new position as it had been sited as agreed between the parties. AXA said it wasnt clear 
what it was asked to do about the piping outside the kitchen window. AXA said the radiator 
valves didnt differ from others in the same room and there was no issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at AXA and its loss adjusters handling and decisions on Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim and the parties comments about the remaining works. I havent addressed each 
complaint point individually but I have reviewed our investigators detailed considerations, 
and the parties responses.
The purpose of Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance is to attempt to put them as closely as 
possible back in the position they occupied before the escape of water. This means any 
improvement or upgrade in the work such as the upgrade they requested to quartz worktops 
isnt covered by the policy and becomes a private contract between Mr and Mrs H and the 
contractors. A private contract is outside of the work required of an insurer on a claim 
regardless of how the work was organised. Mr and Mrs H need to take up any issues they 
have with private or upgraded work with the contractors.
I can see that a schedule of work was proposed by AXAs loss adjusters. It appears that 
AXAs contractors attempted to carry out the work on the schedule as agreed over the next 
period. However, this wasnt as Mr and Mrs H understood the tasks and there were some 
mistakes in completion of the work as well. In an effort to unravel this and allow progress to 
be made our investigator set out the work he thought it would be fair for AXA to carry out in 
resolution of the claim.
I understand there has been no progress on the claim since May 2021 and no other 
professional reports have been prepared since the schedule of works. Having seen the 
details of the disagreement between the parties about the outstanding work I havent seen a 
great deal to show me that the investigators recommendations were wide of the mark. With 
all claims progress depends on a degree of cooperation between the parties and where this 
is absent, progress stalls. 
Mr and Mrs H want the outstanding work on their claim to be completed. Consequently, I 
think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for AXA to carry out the 
work put forward by the investigator but do so in communication with Mr and Mrs H to 
ensure that requirements and misunderstandings are resolved. This means resolving AXAs 
question about the outside piping and Mr and Mrs H contacting service providers if required 
for new sockets. 
AXA needs to arrange for the re-engagement of its loss adjuster or surveyor with Mr and Mrs 
H so the work can be carried out promptly. Both parties need to ensure that any remaining 
disputes are resolved quickly so the work can proceed to the conclusion of the claim. 
Although in normal circumstances a claim of this nature would have been progressed to a 
conclusion by this time, I think the disagreement between the parties and misunderstandings 
about what work is covered are the reasons completion of the claim has been delayed. Ive 
looked at the timeline of events and communications between the parties and I havent found that AXA has been responsible for avoidable delays and so I havent awarded compensation 
for this.  
Mr and Mrs H havent referred to the compensation AXA has paid them for its delayed rent 
payment, and I havent considered this further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the following work on Mr and Mrs Hs claim:
install the missing internet master sockets. 
Move the water softener to a more accessible position.
Change the screws on the electrical sockets installed or repaired by AXA. 
Cover the rest of the pipe which is outside the kitchen window in conduit.
Move the broadband cable box back to its original position. 
Replace two radiator valves so they match the other radiator valves.
Install the door locks and handles that are yet to be installed on the French doors.

I do not require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything further in respect of Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman