DRN-2947335
The complaint
Mr O is complaining that he wasnt made aware that he was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for his 
children with a supplier that I will call E. Hes also unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel it. 
  
What happened
Mr O says, in January 2019, his ex-wife contacted him as she was keen to arrange some 
additional tutoring for their children and had arranged an appointment with E. At her request 
Mr O attended the appointment with one of Es representatives, following which he entered 
his children onto a course, which cost £6,225. He entered into a five-year finance agreement 
with 3J to pay for it.
Around three months later, Mr O tried to cancel the course as he says the laptop his children 
were provided was of poor quality and the course didnt match the syllabus his children were 
studying. But E said he was outside of the cancellation window  it said he had 14 days to 
withdraw from the agreement. Mr O didnt think this was fair and said the salesman had told 
him he could cancel at any time.
E responded to say Mr O signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied he was 
reasonably aware he was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork he 
signed set out the terms and his cancellation rights.
E subsequently went into administration, so Mr O referred his complaint to 3J as the finance 
provider. 3J says it understands E always aimed to do all it could to make clear what was 
being entered into when a family chooses to purchase a programme from them. It says Mr O 
signed the agreement which contained a section which set out he had 14 days to withdraw 
from the finance agreement. And it said the paperwork was emailed to him which also set 
out that he had 14 days to withdraw from the agreement. It also highlighted Mr O had hand-
signed a document and individually initialled to confirm he was aware he was taking out a 
finance agreement and the cancellation rights were.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she was satisfied Mr O had been given misleading 
information about whether he could cancel the agreement or not. She said shed found 
Mr Os testimony plausible and persuasive. She acknowledged the paperwork set out Mr O 
was entering into a finance agreement and what the terms of the contract were. But she 
didnt think Mr O was given an opportunity to review the information before he entered into 
the contract.
The investigator noted that the paperwork had an electronic signature. She also noted the 
date stamp for the signatures showed they were all ticked at the same time. She thought this 
supported Mr Os assertions that he electronically signed the contract and wasnt given an 
opportunity to read it beforehand.
The investigator was satisfied Mr O had been misled into entering into the finance 
agreement. She was also persuaded the salesman had told him he could cancel the contract 
at any time. And she didnt think Mr O would have entered into the contract had he known it 
was to run for five years.
So the investigator thought 3J should cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to 
pay. But she thought it could retain three monthly payments to reflect the usage Mr Os 
children had had of the course. She also said 3J should remove all record of the loan from 
his credit file.
3J didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mr O paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr O entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when he was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr O. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Mr O is unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when his children said it wasnt 
suitable. He says he was told by the salesman he could cancel at any time and he says he 
was misled into entering into the course and the finance agreement. He says he hasnt taken 
out any loans since moving to England.
Under the terms of the finance, Mr O had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mr O doesnt dispute the contract says this, but 
he says he was told he could cancel it at any time. He says he wouldnt have entered into 
the course had he known hed have to continue to pay for it for five years. He also says he 
didnt know he was entering into a finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to 
think about is whether the course and finance agreement were misrepresented to him. Hes 
also said the course didnt follow his childrens syllabus  i.e. he doesnt think it was fit for 
purpose.
I note 3J say the primary focus should be on the paperwork Mr O signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans responsibilities 
to provide clear information to enable Mr O to make an informed choice before he agreed to 
enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description of the conversations that were had before the contract started.
In arranging the loan between Mr O and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But, I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee; 
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must: 
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mr O purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Mr Os assumptions about how he was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Mr O.
 
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 
days have passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons. So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering 
either face to face or online tuition. 
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Mr Os testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what hes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product he ultimately bought.
Mr O has said he understands that it was a five-year course his children were signing up to. 
But hes also said he was concerned about signing up to such a long-term and specifically 
asked whether he could cancel and was assured he could. Mr O has been consistent from 
the start with his testimony on this and Ive found him plausible and persuasive with what 
hes said. So, on balance, I think its most likely he did enquire whether he could cancel the 
course when he did so. And I dont think its likely he would have entered into a five-year 
contract, unless he was told he could cancel it.
Ive considered 3Js comments that Mr O signed the agreement. But I think the evidence 
here supports Mr Os assertions he wasnt asked to individually sign the contract, but I think 
he was actually only asked to tick a number of boxes on a tablet. I can see Mr O 
electronically signed the finance agreement, the enrolment application, the direct debit 
instruction and the declaration of affordability. But I can also see that he signed them all 
within a minute of each other. I dont think its likely he could have signed them separately at 
precisely the same time  I think its likely there would have been a slight delay if hes been asked to sign them separately. So I think its most likely he ticked separate boxes to 
electronically sign the documents. And Im not persuaded he would have been given a copy 
of the agreement to review before he signed them.
I note 3J has said Mr O was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement before he 
ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I dont 
disagree with 3J that it was Mr Os responsibility to understand what he was entering into. 
But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to ensure he 
had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and about the 
finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before he agreed to enter into the 
course and finance agreement.
Mr O has also consistently said he didnt know he was taking out a loan and hes said he 
wouldnt have done so had he known how he was going to have to fund the course. And hes 
said hed not taken out any loans since moving to England. Ive seen some of the training 
material provided by E to its salespeople, which I understand was current at the point Mr O 
entered into the finance agreement. When covering how to explain the financial aspects of 
the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan anywhere in these training materials. Instead, I 
think the focus seems to have been on setting an affordable monthly payment and, it seems 
to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid making the arrangement sound 
like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mr O as clearly as he should have done. And I think Mr O has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said, Mr O has had a benefit from the course because his children did use it for around 
three months. I note Mr O has said the course didnt match up with the schools syllabus, so 
he doesnt think his children had any use for it. Hes also said the laptop his children were 
provided to access the course was of poor quality.
I should first state that the laptop was provided by a third-party company and the 
documentation specifically says E isnt responsible for its quality. So 3J isnt responsible for 
any issues Mr O may have had with the laptop. I also havent seen enough to show that the 
course didnt follow the curriculum and didnt give his children any benefit. So I think its fair 
he pays for some of the amount payable. I understand Mr Os children only used the course 
for around three months. 
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. It can retain the first three 
payments Mr O made to reflect the usage his children had from the course. But it should 
refund any additional payments Mr O has made, plus 8% simple interest. 
As I dont think Mr O would have entered into this finance agreement had he been given 
sufficient information at the outset, I dont think its fair that it continues to appear on his 
credit file. So I think 3J should remove any record of the agreement from Mr Os credit file  
including any adverse markers.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require 3J Finance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Remove any record of this finance agreement  including any adverse markers  from 
Mr Os credit file;2. It can retain the first three monthly payments Mr O has made, but it should refund any 
additional payments Mr O has made. It should also pay 8% simple interest on each 
payment from the date Mr O made them until he gets them back*;
3. Waive any outstanding payments due.
* It should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from when Mr O paid them 
until he gets them back. If 3J thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman