DRN-2853105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society led them to believe that they would 
be able to port their mortgage, but it has refused to do so.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L looked at a taking out a fixed rate mortgage product with Nationwide and had a 
discussion with a Nationwide mortgage adviser in branch in December 2019. At some stage 
in the future they wanted to move to a more expensive property and based on income 
information provided by Mr and Mrs L they say that the adviser told them that they could 
afford to buy a property up to £1.3m. Mr and Mrs L agreed to accept the new mortgage 
product at a rate of 1.54% over five years from January 2020. 
But when they had an offer accepted on another property worth £1.15m and wanted to port, 
Nationwide refused the mortgage. It said that when it did the affordability assessment, Mr 
and Mrs L were looking to increase their borrowing by £410,000 and for Nationwide this 
exceeded affordability by £184,000. This meant that in order to buy the new property they 
had to redeem the mortgage and pay an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr and Mrs L feel 
that Nationwide didnt provide them with full information when they took out the mortgage 
product or took a reasonable view of the affordability given their income streams which they 
believe could have sustained the mortgage that they wanted. Shortly after Nationwide 
refused the mortgage, they got a mortgage on their new property with another lender.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that 
Nationwide had done nothing wrong. Mr and Mrs L disagreed saying in summary that 
Nationwide acted in a manner to entice them to take out the product without being 
transparent about how they assess their mortgage. They say this was completely unfair and 
misleading and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Nationwide for about ten years. They went to the 
Nationwide branch to see a mortgage adviser in December 2019 to try and get a lower rate 
for their mortgage but hoping to move to a new property in the near future. Fixing the rate 
was important to them but it was also important that the mortgage product was portable. In 
order to gauge what they could afford with their income the adviser seems to have probed 
the Nationwide system which came up with a figure that Mr and Mrs L could potentially 
borrow on a new property. Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs L factored this in when they took 
out the mortgage product. But then when they applied for a new mortgage, the application 
was refused as it didnt meet Nationwides lending criteria.
Its not my role to decide what Nationwides lending criteria is. Its a commercial operation 
which sets its own criteria and is subject to regulation. I note that Nationwide seems to have 
looked at the application on several occasions including following an appeal but refused it. I 
also see that the reasons for refusal were based on Nationwides criteria which determined 
that Mr and Mrs Ls income wouldnt support the amount of borrowing they wanted. I know 
that Mr And Mrs L find that unacceptable and another lender had no issue with affordability. I 
note that Mr and Mrs L had several streams of income and that there were changes in their 
employment in the recent past. But as Nationwide is lending the money its a matter for it to 
determine what risks its willing to accept. 
Within its own criteria Nationwide seems to have processed this application fairly. When Mr 
and Mrs L agreed the mortgage product, Mr and Mrs L should have been aware aware that 
any application to port their mortgage product would be subject to Nationwides lending 
criteria at the time of application as this warning is contained within the mortgage offer. I note 
that it was also contained in the DIP of January 2020 indicating that any mortgage 
application was subject to this lending criteria.  So, I cant say that Nationwides refusal of 
the new mortgage application was unfair.
There remains Mr and Mrs L complaint that they were misled by the adviser that they could 
get a mortgage when in fact they couldnt. But the adviser wasnt advising them on a new 
mortgage but on the suitability of a mortgage product.  The adviser seems to have 
processed a query about what on their income Mr and Mrs L could borrow.  But this wasnt a 
promise that in the future Mr and Mrs L would get a mortgage based on that income. The 
mortgage product offer had the caveat that any porting would be subject to Nationwides 
lending criteria at the time. Unfortunately, a closer examination of the sources of their 
income when it came to the application meant that the application failed Nationwides 
criteria. As the adviser wasnt processing a mortgage application at that stage, I wouldnt 
have expected the adviser to go through such a detailed examination of their income then or 
to go through Nationwides detailed lending criteria at that stage.    
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs L had to pay an ERC when they moved to their new house but 
when I consider the application, I cant agree that Nationwide has done anything wrong and 
so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman