DRN-2254429
The complaint
Mr P complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited trading as Autonet Insurance 
Group (Autonet) incorrectly cancelled his van insurance policy. 
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify any other 
party.
Autonet acted as an intermediary between Mr P and an insurance company. It set up a 
policy for Mr Ps van for a year from 5 August 2019. The policy covered Mr P and his wife.
Autonet asked Mr P to send it documents including drivers licences. He sent them but 
Autonet thought there was a problem with the address on his wifes licence. It gave notices 
of cancellation and cancelled the policy with effect from 28 September 2019.
Mr P complained about the cancellation. Autonet wrote a final response letter dated 10 
October 2019. It refunded its cancellation fee of £79.95. Mr P didnt think that went far 
enough to put things right. He brought his complaint to us later in October 2019.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
whole scenario had caused great inconvenience and stress to Mr P. He recommended that 
Autonet should:
1. pay Mr P £200.00 compensation; and
2. not record the cancellation on CUE (Claims Underwriting Exchange).
Autonet agreed with the investigators opinion. It said it had raised a credit for £200.00. It 
said it had no record of an enforced cancellation on its database and it would contact the 
insurers to ensure they do not either.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. He says, in summary, that he would like £500.00.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Autonet set up the policy on 5 August 2019, Mr P paid the full cost of £524.34. Of that, 
£20.00 was a fee to Autonet. The balance of about £504.00 was payable to the insurer. That 
was for 12 months. Dividing by 12 equates to about £42.00 per month.
The policy documents mentioned Mr Ps wife. But there was no indication that Autonet asked 
whether she shared Mr Ps address.
From 9 August, Autonet asked Mr P for documents including drivers licences. Mr P sent in 
copies of his drivers licence and his wifes. Hers had a different surname and a different 
address to his. I can see why Autonet mightve thought that her licence needed updating 
following a marriage and a move of home.
On 23 August, Autonet asked for information and gave a seven-day notice of cancellation. 
Ive seen a letter dated 30 August by which Autonet asked for an up to date licence with Mr 
Ps wifes current address.
Autonet sent another seven-day notice of cancellation on 13 September 2019. It sent 
another letter of the same date. It warned Mr P that he wouldnt be insured to drive after the 
seven days expired. But the letter didnt explain what documents Mr P needed to provide to 
prevent cancellation.
Ive also seen a letter dated 20 September with another request for an up to date licence 
with Mr Ps wifes current address. The letter contained another seven-day notice of 
cancellation. 
I accept that Mr P had provided an up to date licence for his wife. But I dont find it likely that 
he wouldve used the van after 27 September without checking the insurance cover. From 
28 September 2019 Autonet cancelled the policy and sent Mr P confirmation.
From the file I find that the insurer refunded a balance of £372.05 to Autonet. I find it likely 
that this was a refund of the years premium of about £504.00 less a charge of about 
£132.00. I wouldve expected the charge for two months on cover to be about £84.00. 
So I find it likely that the insurer had charged a cancellation fee of about £50.00 (or charged 
a short-term rate). I find it likely that the insurer - rather than Autonet - was responsible for 
that. So Mr P may wish to take that up with the insurer.
Autonet said it was refunding Mr P £292.10. And it later said it had applied a cancellation 
charge of £79.95. So that is consistent with it having received a refund of £372.05 from the 
insurer.
At that point, Mr P had received about 2 months of cover. Yet he had paid for 12 months and 
been refunded only just over half of what hed paid. 
And it was only at that time that Autonet explained that the problem was that Mr Ps wifes 
licence showed a different address to his. Mr P has confirmed they werent sharing the same 
address.
So I can see why Mr P didnt pay Autonet to set up a policy for a further 12 months.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ps statement that he got a new policy through another 
provider. And it cost him around £700.00 which he had to spread in monthly instalments. But 
he hasnt provided a copy of the new policy. And I dont find any evidence that the new 
provider increased the cost because of Autonets cancellation.
In its final response letter dated 10 October 2019, Autonet told Mr P the following:
 our organisation has failed you regarding the cancellation of your policy. After 
reviewing the requests made for evidence of your wifes driving licence, I believe these could have been clearer. In addition, we could have contacted you to discuss 
the matter via telephone which may have resulted in the cancellation notice being 
removed. 
Autonet refunded its cancellation charge of £79.95. But that is no more than I would expect, 
as Autonet couldve stopped the cancellation. Also, I wouldnt find it fair for Autonet to charge 
a cancellation fee if the insurer had already deducted a cancellation fee.
Following the refund of £79.95, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Autonet to 
compensate Mr P for any identifiable financial loss.
Putting things right
I will direct Autonet to treat the cancellation as having been made in error  and ask the 
insurer to remove from CUE any adverse record of the cancellation. 
Ive seen from the file that  by shortcomings in its communication  Autonet caused Mr P 
increasing irritation and inconvenience. Overall I agree with the investigator that its fair and 
reasonable to direct Autonet to pay Mr P £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited trading as Autonet Insurance Group to:
1. pay Mr P £200.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. treat the cancellation as having been made in error  and ask the insurer to remove 
from CUE any adverse record of the cancellation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman