DRN-1866345
The complaint
Mr W isnt happy with the way LEBC Group Limited (LEBC) dealt with his defined benefit 
transfer. 
  
What happened
 Mr W had deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefits pension scheme. The 
trustees decided to offer enhanced transfer values (ETV) and wrote to members on 31 
January 2019. The trustees said theyd asked The Retirement Adviser (part of LEBC) to 
provide free advice to scheme members. For convenience Ive just referred to LEBC below. 
Im not going to set out in detail how things progressed. But the transfer went ahead. Mr W 
took tax free cash which was paid into his bank account on 28 May 2019.
Mr W is unhappy with the time taken. Amongst other things he says progress was slow, 
communications poor and wrong information and timescales were given. He had to chase for 
information and responses. He ended up dealing with the ceding and the receiving schemes 
direct. He says the stress was multiplied because, after the insistent client procedure was 
adopted, LEBC said it would only assist if Mr W used its preferred SIPP provider, not the 
SIPP operator Mr W had wanted to use. He reluctantly agreed to use the other provider but 
LEBCs service was poor and Mr W had to intervene. 
Mr W complained to LEBC. It upheld his complaint in part and offered £250. Mr W wasnt 
happy with that and referred the matter to us. 
Mr W says hes suffered financial loss as well as trouble and upset. Hed stressed the 
urgency from the outset. Hed told LEBC he had a chance to set up a small service company 
but that didnt happen as the tax free cash didnt arrive in time. That caused a lot of stress 
and upset. Mr Ws holiday plans were also disrupted. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint but only 
in part. In summary she said it was clear that Mr W wanted to go ahead with the transfer. 
And that he wanted it to be done as quickly as possible. From the start LEBC had made it 
clear it had to follow a regulatory process and that could take time. And when Mr W wanted 
to go ahead as an insistent client LEBC had asked the trustees if theyd waive the cooling off 
period but they didnt agree. LEBC had liaised with the other parties involved during the 
transfer process to try to ensure that it went ahead, and Mr W got his tax free cash, as soon 
as possible. 
The investigator did identify one delay caused by LEBC  the adviser had told Mr W on 10 
April 2019 that shed email the report the same day as it was posted so Mr W wouldnt have 
to wait for it to arrive. But she didnt email the report and unfortunately Mr W didnt receive 
the copy sent in the post. As hed responded the same day he did get it (by email) it followed 
hed have done the same if hed received it earlier. Had it been emailed hed have got it on 
18 April 2019 and replied that day. So hed have got his tax free cash by 21 May 2019, a 
week earlier than was actually the case. 
She suggested that LEBC increase its offer of compensation to £500 to reflect that. She 
didnt think LEBC should pay compensation in respect of Mr W losing out on a potential 
business opportunity or for his holiday. 
LEBC accepted the investigators view and said it was happy to increase the compensation 
to £500.
 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he had other pension funds he could have accessed instead of 
this transfer. And hed have been able to fund his holiday and the business opportunity. He 
maintained the tax free cash should have been paid in early May 2019. He forwarded an 
email exchange about borrowing money to pay for the holiday. He said LEBC wouldnt 
facilitate the transfer unless Mr W used its preferred SIPP provider. Hed still then had to 
chase things up and contact the parties involved direct. He maintained that LEBC knew 
about his holiday and that the transfer should have been completed and the tax free cash 
paid in early May 2019.
The investigator considered Mr Ws further comments. But she wasnt persuaded to change 
her view. She said that, in his conversation with the adviser on 27 March 2019, Mr W had 
asked how long the process would take and the adviser had explained that her research and 
then the report going to the compliance team would take around two to three weeks. The 
report was finalised and posted to Mr W on 18 April 2019, in line with the timescale LEBC 
had indicated. Although, as had been acknowledged, there was a delay due to the report not 
being emailed as promised.
 
Mr W had made commitments on his understanding that the transfer would go ahead, but 
from what the investigator had seen, LEBC hadnt told Mr W the funds would be with him 
sooner than they actually were. LEBC had treated the matter as a priority and had done all 
they could to try to get the funds to Mr W sooner than the normal process allowed. Mr W had 
chased a number of different organisations and people at LEBC to make the process faster, 
but it didnt seem that the process was only being moved on by what Mr W did. Overall the 
investigator considered that compensation of £500 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W said he wanted an ombudsman to review the matter. He supplied a time line of the 
main events. And he said his complaint was based on four main points. In summary:
LEBCs service was poor throughout, especially at crucial times and when hed said 
from the outset that it was time critical. Instead there were delays and a lack of 
communication. LEBC and our investigator had admitted that to a greater or lesser 
extent. But the compensation  for loss, expenses and damages to his reputation 
and taking into account the missed business opportunity and that he lost holiday time 
with relatives and friends  wasnt adequate.  
His choice of SIPP provider was discounted. He was told LEBC would only support a 
transfer on an insistent client basis if he used LEBCs preferred provider. As time was 
slipping he agreed to use LEBCs preferred provider but the promise of speed wasnt 
met. The investigator hadnt asked for details of who hed contacted to back up what 
hed said about having had to steps himself.  
LEBC had promised the transfer would be completed by 21 May 2019. He had to 
contact and coordinate the transfer himself as paperwork/details hadnt been done. 
He didnt get the special service LEBC had promised. 
Hed suffered distress and frustration. The April finish point was extended into mid 
May. By then he was already well into the process. He suspects LEBC was under 
resourced. But that doesnt excuse the outcome.Mr W also added that LEBC had failed to answer his complaint within eight weeks. And, 
when LEBC did respond, it blamed everyone else although admitted to some fault and 
offered £250.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont disagree with the outcome suggested by the investigator and the 
amount of compensation she suggested - £500  and which LEBC has confirmed it is 
prepared to pay. 
I can see that Mr W feels very disappointed and frustrated by whats gone on. He clearly 
feels that LEBCs service fell far short of the standard hes entitled to expect. As hes said, 
LEBC and our investigator accepted that there were some shortcomings. Mr W doesnt 
consider the compensation recommended is enough to redress him for the trouble and upset 
hes suffered (including disappointment, frustration and stress) and extra expenses he 
incurred in connection with his disrupted holiday plans. Hes also mentioned compensation 
for a lost business opportunity. 
As far as the latter is concerned, I dont have full details of exactly what the missed business 
opportunity was. Or what money Mr W may have agreed to put in and by when. I havent 
asked for further information as, for the reasons Ive gone on to explain, I dont think a claim 
for a lost business opportunity can succeed. 
Mr W is a self employed contractor. I think the proposal involved collaborating with two other 
contractors. In the end the venture didnt go ahead as Mr W wasnt able to put his share of 
the money in. I think it would be impossible to say hes suffered financially  that is hes lost 
out on earnings or profit that would have been generated, had the venture gone ahead. We 
cant say (and regardless of how confident Mr W may have been about the prospects) how 
the business would have fared and what money, if any, Mr W would have made. There are 
too many variable factors. Any claim is too uncertain and too remote. 
 
Mr W has also mentioned loss of reputation in connection with the proposed venture. I can 
understand he might have felt some embarrassment at having to let his prospective 
business partners know that money he was expecting to receive had been delayed. But Id 
generally regard damage to reputation  and any award for that  as involving rather more 
damaging information that is more widely publicised. An example might be where a court 
judgment (which is a matter of public record) is obtained as a result of someone not being 
paid money that they are entitled to. In Mr Ws case I dont think the compensation needs to 
include an award for damage to reputation. 
The other issue is Mr Ws disrupted holiday. My understanding is that he owns a timeshare 
villa and he booked flights in late 2018 as they were much cheaper than usual. He was 
planning a three week stay. He booked an outward flight departing on 22 May 2019 at 
9.15am with a return flight three weeks later. 
Hes also mentioned that he paid the service charge for the villa in December 2018. If hed 
left it later it would have increased. I dont think Mr W is saying he wouldnt have paid the 
service charge then anyway. Hes said hes had the timeshare for over ten years and so I 
think hed have anticipated using it during 2019 whether in May or some other time and so 
the service charge would have been paid anyway. But he did have accommodation costs for 
his planned May 2019 visit. Mr W has told us he could change his flights up to five hours before check in time. When he 
hadnt got his tax free cash by 20 or 21 May 2019 he went on line to change the flights. But 
there were two problems. First, the flights were fully booked for two weeks. Secondly, Mr W 
couldnt be sure when the transfer would complete and when hed actually get his tax free 
cash. Hes explained that he didnt want to fly out as originally planned in case the transfer 
didnt then complete within a week or so. That would mean hed be left abroad with no funds 
to live on and unable to book an earlier flight home.
 
The tax free cash was paid on 28 May 2019. He then booked with another airline to fly out 
the following day - 29 May 2019. He returned two weeks later on his original return flight. 
That meant his holiday was only two weeks, not the three weeks hed originally planned. 
Mr W arranged his holiday in December 2018, before the possibility of transferring arose. He 
was between contracts at the time and so how he was going to pay for the holiday was 
uncertain. The prospect of an ETV from his former employers scheme didnt arise until later. 
I can see that when that came up, Mr W thought the tax free cash would be paid in time to 
fund the holiday. So he didnt cancel the flights or his holiday plans. And he didnt try to raise 
other funds  hes said he had other pension plans but it was too late to try to access them 
by the time he realised that there might be a problem with the transfer. 
Mr W says he made LEBC aware at the outset of his holiday plans. He says all those 
involved knew the transfer was a priority and he reasonably expected it to be completed in 
time for his holiday to go ahead. But even if I accept that LEBC was aware of Mr Ws holiday 
plans, LEBC didnt guarantee the transfer would be completed and Mr Ws tax free cash paid 
in time for him to confirm his flights and holiday plans. I dont think LEBC is responsible if the 
transfer took longer, provided there was no unreasonable or avoidable delay on LEBCs part. 
Looking at Mr Ws timeline, an ETV was requested on 12 March 2019. That was received 
ten or so days later, enabling the advice process to start towards the end of March 2019. I 
think there was always a risk that any transfer wouldnt be completed by early May 2019, 
which seems to have been Mr Ws expectation. 
On the face of it, the time taken doesnt seem unreasonable and wouldnt immediately 
suggest any unreasonable delays. I dont think its entirely fair to judge LEBC on the basis of 
whether the transfer could have been completed any quicker. Rather Ive considered if LEBC 
dealt with the matter within a reasonable timeframe. Mr W has said LEBC knew the matter 
was urgent and should have acted accordingly. But if LEBC did everything within a 
reasonable timeframe then I dont think, and in the absence of any promise that a certain 
deadline would be met, Id be able to say that LEBCs service fell below the standard Mr W 
was entitled to expect. 
That said, it seems, in the main, LEBC did progress things as quickly as it could. Although 
Mr W has said there were times when he was unable to contact LEBC, I think its clear LEBC 
knew Mr W wanted the transfer and the payment of his tax free cash progressed as quickly 
as possible. I think LEBC did try to meet Mr Ws expectations, even if there were incidences 
where Mr W considers communication was lacking. 
LEBC started gathering information and had all the details needed by 28 March 2019  
within a week or so of the process starting. LEBC then took until 12 April 2019 to produce its 
report. 
I dont agree that such reports are largely standard as Mr Ws described them or that they 
typically take two weeks to produce. I think thats an underestimation of the work that needs 
to be done in analysing all the information thats needed and considering all the relevant 
factors. Advising on defined benefits transfers is a specialist area and that type of work can 
only be undertaken by a firm that holds the requisite regulatory permissions. I think thats a reflection of the complexity of the matter and the importance the regulator attaches to trying 
to ensure that consumers are given suitable advice about pension transfers.  
But, in any event, the report was produced within the two week timeframe Mr W has 
suggested. I think that indicates that LEBC did treat the matter with urgency. 
Unfortunately there was then a delay as has been identified - Mr W didnt receive the report 
in the post and it hadnt, as promised, been emailed to him. That led to a weeks avoidable 
delay. The investigator said that, but for that delay, it was reasonable to assume the transfer 
would have completed a week earlier than was actually the case. So, instead of Mr W 
getting his tax free cash on 28 May 2019, it would have been paid on 21 May 2019. In that 
case he could have kept his original flight booking and his three week holiday could have 
gone ahead as planned. At first sight that suggests LEBC is responsible for the fact that Mr 
W cancelled and incurred extra costs as well as losing a week of his holiday. 
But I think there are other considerations. Mr W could always have gone on holiday anyway. 
I can understand why he perhaps didnt want to do that until he actually had the tax free 
cash. But it seems that was very close anyway and in the event payment was made a week 
later anyway, on 28 May 2019. Mr W says that was down to him chasing things up direct 
with the ceding and receiving schemes. But theres nothing to say that, if Mr W had gone on 
holiday and left instructions with LEBC to finalise things as quickly as possible, that wouldnt 
have happened. 
I think it was Mr Ws choice to err on the side of caution and rearrange his holiday plans. As 
Ive said, I can understand why he did that but it doesnt mean it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that LEBC is directly responsible and that it should pick up any expenses 
Mr W incurred, or pay extra compensation to reflect the fact that Mr Ws holiday was delayed 
and shorter than hed planned because he chose, in the circumstances, to postpone his 
holiday. 
I also bear in mind that the process was also delayed by two weeks due to the imposition by 
the scheme trustees of a cooling off period. I can understand the trustees stance and why 
they werent willing to waive that period. And why LEBC was comfortable with a cooling off 
period too. But for that delay its reasonable to assume the transfer would have completed 
two weeks earlier. So the actual time taken wasnt all down to LEBC anyway. Id also 
mention that not all firms are prepared to process defined benefit transfers on an insistent 
client basis. If LEBC had declined to act for Mr W as an insistent client then that is likely to 
have led to delays. 
It also seems there might have been some delay on Mr Ws part at the beginning of the 
process. It seems he was always intent on accepting the ETV and transferring and he knew 
hed need the tax free cash to pay for the holiday hed booked and the business venture too. 
Im not sure, when he was told, at the end of January 2019, about the ETV exercise that he 
got things moving as soon as he could.  
I note that towards the end of the process there was some difficulty and delay on the 
receiving scheme with paying out the tax free cash. From what LEBC has said it did chase 
up the payment of Mr Ws tax free cash. I dont think LEBC can be held responsible for any 
delay or further requirements on the receiving schemes part. 
Mr Ws also said he had to chase various parties direct. I dont think its necessary to ask Mr 
W for full details. I accept that he did what he says he did. Its clear he wanted his tax free 
cash to be paid as soon as possible. And his intervention seems to have identified some 
details which required attention before that could happen. But that doesnt mean, without his efforts, that LEBC wouldnt have done anything that was needed or that the timescale for 
payment of the tax free cash would have been materially longer. 
Mr Ws also said he agreed, albeit reluctantly he says, to use LEBCs preferred SIPP 
provider. I think LEBCs suggestion, that it would be quicker to use LEBCs preferred 
provider and hold the transferred in fund in cash and then proceed with a transfer to Mr Ws 
choice of SIPP provider, was made in good faith and on the basis that route was likely to be 
quicker and easier. I dont think it was an attempt to mislead Mr W or force him to use the 
SIPP provider that LEBC routinely dealt with. 
Ive also noted Mr Ws comments about how LEBC dealt with his complaint, including the 
time taken for LEBC to issue its final response letter. But I dont think any delay in dealing 
with the complaint means that a higher compensation payment should be made. 
Overall my view is that LEBC did deal with the transfer in a reasonable timescale. Mr Ws 
expectations were high and although he was disappointed with the time taken I dont think 
that necessarily means that LEBCs service, in the main at least, fell short of what Mr W was 
reasonably entitled to expect. 
All in all I think the compensation suggested by the investigator and which LEBC has agreed 
to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and Im not going to say 
that LEBC should pay more.
  
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. LEBC Group Limited must pay £500 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman