DRN-2869122
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Finance Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs P. The car here was 21 
months old and had already completed about 13,111 miles. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Black Horse were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Im persuaded the faults with the key fob, internal panel and boot rattle were present when 
the car was supplied to Mrs P and I can see that the business accepted that and completed 
the repairs Mrs P requested on 3 July 2019.
Im not persuaded the engine failure that occurred in September 2019 was due to a fault that 
was present when the car was supplied because I think the business have provided 
sufficient information to suggest it was due to a front-end impact and that impact most likely 
happened after Mrs P took receipt of the vehicle. I say that because:
the dealership and both independent inspectors agree that the front-end damage is 
what has caused the engine to overheat and the head gasket to fail;
the dealership and the first independent inspector noted that the front bumper had a 
date on it consistent with salvage markings that post-dated the date the car was 
supplied to Mrs P. I think that suggests repairs were completed to the front end of the 
car after Mrs P took receipt of it;
the first independent inspector didnt think it was likely the impact damage had 
occurred before the car was supplied to Mrs P as he thought Mrs P would not have 
been able to drive the distance she had in it if that had been the case. He was also 
persuaded the impact damage had happened subsequently because of the markings 
on the bumper;
whilst the second independent inspector didnt feel he could comment on the date of 
the impact he didnt provide any information that leads me to think the first inspectors 
view was incorrect;
the second inspector didnt identify the salvage markings, but I think they were likely 
to have been there as both the dealership and an independent inspector noted them; 
Ive not been provided with an adequate explanation about why the salvage marks 
would be present and why they would post-date the date of supply; 
the second inspector noted the radiator bracket was damaged and corroded. But he 
didnt suggest that was likely to mean the bracket was damaged before the car was 
supplied to   Mrs P. As the inspection didnt take place until eight months after the car 
had been supplied to Mrs P, I think rust would be likely to develop in that period on 
exposed metal.
So, I think Black Horse were reasonable when repairing the issues Mrs P reported to them 
and when providing some compensation for those matters. But I dont think there is evidence 
the engine failure was developing when the car was supplied to Mrs P and I therefore dont 
think its fair to ask Black Horse to rectify that issue or allow Mrs P to reject the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman