DRN-2557237
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Their complaint relates to the 
rejection of a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their house from a leak.
 
This decision does not consider Mr and Mrs Ts separate home emergency policy that they 
held with a separate part of the AXA Group. This is only referred to in this decision as 
context for what happened.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs T contacted AXA about a leak in their house that had led to 
damage to the dining room floor and a section of the wall in the adjoining kitchen. Mr and 
Mrs T noticed the floor in the dining room had started to bow. Initially Mr and Mrs T 
contacted a separate part of the AXA Group with whom they had a home emergency policy. 
Under that policy a plumber inspected the damage but was unable to identify the cause of 
the leak without further intrusive inspection. At this point Mr and Mrs T called in a local 
plumber who determined that the leak had come from a concealed radiator pipe. The 
plumber carried out a repair to fix the leak. AXA appointed property surveyors to inspect the 
damage. Following their inspection AXA paid a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs T so that they 
could have the further repairs carried out. AXA also appointed a separate contractor to carry 
out the necessary drying of Mr and Mrs Ts house, which they completed in June 2020.
 
Some months later, in October 2020, Mr and Mrs T noticed that similar damage had 
occurred again. Initially they thought that it had been caused by the replacement of the floor 
damaged in the earlier incident. The contractor that installed the floor inspected the floor and 
said that the issue was caused by a further leak. The contractor traced the problem to a soil 
stack in the adjacent utility room that was carrying waste water from two bathrooms. The 
contractor also concluded that the soil stack had been leaking for some time, and that it was 
also a cause of the original damage and  as the leaking radiator pipe had been repaired 
after the earlier incident  the sole cause of the new damage.
 
By the time the second incident occurred, Mr and Mrs T had switched their home insurance 
policy from AXA to another insurer. But as Mr and Mrs T believed that the issue with the soil 
stack was the cause of both incidents, they contacted AXA in October 2020 and asked them 
to re-open the original claim. In their view the actual cause of the first leak had not been 
identified correctly and rectified at the time.
AXA told Mr and Mrs T that as there was a new leak a new claim would need to be 
registered. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy at this response, so it was agreed that AXAs 
building surveyor would re-visit Mr and Mrs Ts house to inspect the damage. Following their 
inspection, AXA determined that the damage was due to a separate leak in the adjoining 
utility room, and therefore a second claim would need to be made. As Mr and Mrs T were no 
longer insured with them, AXA told them the claim would need to be made with the new 
insurer. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy at this response and complained to AXA, maintaining that both 
leaks would have been present at the time of the original incident, but the soil stack leak had 
not been identified. Mr and Mrs T employed a different plumber who replaced the leaking soil 
stack, but also wanted AXA to cover the additional cost of replacing the damaged flooring 
and section of wall.
AXA considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint but in October 2020 rejected it. They maintained 
that their decision that Mr and Mrs T would need to lodge a claim with their new insurer was 
correct.
  
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy at the outcome of their complaint and complained to this service 
in October 2020. The main issue of the complaint was that the cause of the second leak (the 
soil stack) was not correctly identified as the cause at the time of the first leak. They believed 
AXA should have treated the second claim as a continuation of the first. They asked that 
AXA meet the costs of repairing the damage from the second leak.
Our investigator concluded that AXA did not need to take any action. She noted that Mr and 
Mrs T arranged for their own plumber to determine the source of the first leak in May 2020, 
who concluded that it was a leaking radiator pipe. The investigator also noted that repairs 
were carried out and that after drying was completed moisture levels at the property returned 
to normal levels, and there was no indication of another, ongoing leak at that point.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs T.
Taking the circumstances of the first incident, Ive noted that In their report following their 
inspection at the time of the first leak in May 2020, AXAs building surveyor recorded that Mr 
and Mrs T had called a plumber who found an escape of water from a pipe to the radiator. 
The building surveyors report identified the damage that needed to be repaired and also 
included a cash settlement value. Ive also noted the report from the floor drying contractor 
appointed by AXA that records that moisture levels were back within the normal range when 
the drying was completed in June 2020. So, at that point, the evidence indicated no reason 
to doubt that the issue had been resolved, and Ive noted that it wasnt until a further three to 
four months had elapsed that Mr and Mrs T identified the second leak.
Mr and Mrs T have said that as the soil stack carries waste water from the bathrooms out of 
the house, it only operates when the bathrooms are in use  so intermittently. And that this 
means that when the initial repairs were carried out the effect of the repairs and the drying 
out process would have masked the soil stack leak until such time as it subsequently 
became apparent (in October 2020).
 
Ive considered this point, but Im not persuaded that  on the balance of probabilities  it 
proves that the soil stack leak was present at the time of the first incident (and its cause). 
The damage having been repaired and the evidence at the conclusion of the drying out 
process in June 2020 gave no reason to suggest that there was another, undetected leak. I 
therefore think it was reasonable to have concluded that the issue had been resolved. In any 
event, even had the soil stack leak been present at the time of the first incident, it was the 
plumber called in by Mr and Mrs T that identified the cause of the leak as the radiator pipe 
and carried out the repair. So I dont think AXA can be held responsible for that decision.Ive also noted that in their report after their second inspection of the property in October 
2020, AXAs building surveyor has concluded that the escape of water was coming from 
another pipe and therefore a separate claim. Ive noted that the report also states that:
The damage is consistent with a one-off event of escape of water.
This doesnt indicate that the damage was caused by a leak occurring over a prolonged 
period of time, which is Mr and Mrs Ts contention.
 
In their complaint to this service Mr and Mrs T stated that they were told by the building 
surveyor that their recommendation would be that the original claim should be re-opened 
and that the claim would be met [by AXA]. However, thats not what the report states. I think 
the reports conclusion about the escape of water coming from another source and therefore 
a separate claim is reasonable based on the sequence of events, and that therefore the 
second leak should have been treated as a new claim.
 
Based on these factors Ive concluded that AXA acted reasonably towards Mr and Mrs T at 
the time of the first incident, based on the evidence available to them from Mr and Mrs Ts 
plumber and their own building surveyor. Ive also concluded that they acted reasonably 
when the second incident occurred, again on the evidence available.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman