DRN-4167896
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited  trading as Charter 
Savings Bank (Charter) acted unfairly when it didnt increase the interest rate of their 
savings account. Mr and Mrs G also complain that Charter failed to act on their request to 
close their account and that they encountered technical problems when using the banks 
online service.
As the main complainant and for ease, Ill only refer to Mrs G in my decision.
What happened
Mrs G complained to Charter after it introduced a newer version of the 95-day notice account 
she held with the bank. The new version of the account, known as issue 47, was introduced 
following an increase in the base rate and offered a higher interest rate  Mrs G is unhappy 
that the bank didnt apply the increased rate to her account too.
Mrs G asked the bank to transfer her 95-day notice account into the new issue 47 account, 
so that she could benefit from the higher interest rate. Mrs G asked that Charter close her 
account if it couldnt fulfil her request. Charter didnt close Mrs Gs account, so she also 
complained about this.
Mrs G adds that she experienced problems with using the banks chat service via her online 
account. She says she was timed out of the account, so she lost a message she had been 
typing. Mrs G adds that she also had problems with the online chat systems character limit, 
causing her to lose a whole message that shed written.
In its response, Charter said it was within its rights to exercise its commercial judgement 
when setting the interest rates on its accounts.  The bank says that its new product was 
open to both new and existing customers and that Mrs G would need to serve a 95-day 
notice period on her account, in order to close it and withdraw or transfer the funds. 
Remaining unhappy, Mrs G asked this service to get involved. She wants an apology, her 
account closed and reimbursement for the interest she wouldve earned. Mrs G would also 
like the bank to pay her £50 compensation. Our investigator concluded that Charter had 
acted fairly. Mrs G doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out my remit first. Its not for me to provide instructions on how 
Charter should conduct its banking services. Thats something only Charter can do  and its 
for the regulator to determine whether the bank is acting in accordance with the relevant 
rules. My role is to decide on the merits of this case and reach a finding on whether Charter 
has treated Mrs G fairly. If I decide that the bank did treat her unfairly, I can direct it to do 
something to put things right in these individual circumstances - but this doesnt include 
asking it to make a change to its overall commercial practices.
Ive decided that Charter has acted fairly - Ill explain why.
Charters terms explain that the interest rate on Mrs Gs account is variable, and it is a rate 
set by the bank. Im satisfied that the terms make this point clear. Theres nothing Ive seen 
within the account related literature suggesting that the interest rate will be kept in line with 
the base rate, or that it will match the rate of any new or similar accounts issued by the bank. 
So I cant agree that Charter was obliged to administer Mrs Gs account in this way. 
It seems to me that its up to Charter to decide what rate it sets on this account, which I dont 
think is unreasonable. So I dont agree that the bank did something wrong when it didnt 
raise the interest rate on Mrs Gs account, in line with the rate offered on the issue 47 
account.
Mrs G thinks its unfair that Charter introduced a new similar account around the time with a 
higher interest rate. As I said earlier, its up to Charter to decide how it conducts its banking 
services, so it isnt unreasonable for it to introduce new products to allow it to offer 
competitive savings options for its customers. The new account was also available to Mrs G 
as an existing customer, albeit following her giving the relevant period of notice on her 
account.
Mrs G says she requested that her account is closed but Charter failed to act on her request. 
I can see from the messages she sent via the banks online messaging service that she 
requested an immediate transfer of her account to the issue 47 account, or immediate 
closure of her account. 
However, Mrs Gs account was a 95-day notice account. Charters terms - as set out in the 
key features document for this account - explain that a notice period of 95 days needs be 
given before the funds in the account are withdrawn. Mrs G wouldve agreed to this when 
she decided to take out this type of savings account, especially given the account is 
specifically named with the notice period.
I can see that Charter informed Mrs G as to how she could go about giving notice on her 
account, including listing instructions on how she could do so online as well as provide 
withdrawal options. I cant see that notice was ever formally given by Mrs G and I dont 
agree that the messages I referred to above appropriately provided the notice that was 
required. So I dont find that Charter acted unfairly when it didnt close Mrs Gs account.
Mrs G points to the banks terms, relying specifically on a term relating to account closure. 
But I note that this term is relevant to the section of the document that talks about closing an 
account within the first 14 days. These general terms also point out that the specific terms 
for this account need to be reviewed, which is what Ive referenced above. So I dont agree 
that the term Mrs G points to is applicable here.
Mrs G says she experienced several technical problems when using Charters online 
account service. She says the site timed out and logged her out while she was still typing up 
a message and that one of her messages were deleted, after the character count was too 
high and she was unable to delete anything to reduce the count herself. 
Its difficult to say what, if anything, went wrong. Particularly given I havent seen anything to 
demonstrate the errors Mrs G describes. Charter says the time out feature on its website is 
designed to keep customer accounts secure, which I dont think is unreasonable. Charter is 
under a duty to take steps to keep customer accounts secure, so this feature seems like an 
appropriate way to do so. Mrs G says she couldnt stop the time out feature given she was typing a message at the time.
Charter adds that it couldnt establish the character count error Mrs G described, explaining 
that it was able to delete characters after typing up a message. So it doesnt seem to me that 
Mrs G experienced these issues because of something Charter did wrong.
I dont think I need to decide either way. I say this because the only inconvenience Mrs G 
seems to have suffered was that she needed to type her message up again. So even if I 
decided that Charter had caused the errors Mrs G says she experienced, it seems to me that 
the level of inconvenience Mrs G experienced as a result wasnt to a degree that would 
persuade me that compensation was appropriate here. Again, its not for me to tell Charter 
how its website should function in general, so I wont be asking the bank to do anything.
In summary, it is my decision that Charter acted fairly in the way it administered the interest 
rate on Mrs Gs account. Although Mrs G asked for her account to be closed, she didnt 
provide the relevant notice under the terms, so I dont find that the bank did something 
wrong when it didnt act on Mrs Gs request. And although Mrs G seemingly experienced 
technical problems when using Charters online account system, I cant see that this is 
because of something the bank did wrong, nor do I think that Mrs G experienced an 
unreasonable degree of inconvenience.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman