DRN-2303652
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice Lloyds Bank PLC gave her about her interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mrs B and her late husband took out an interest only mortgage with Lloyds. Mrs B says that 
after her husband died in 2004, Lloyds should have advised her to change her mortgage 
from interest only to repayment. She says she didnt realise remaining on an interest only 
mortgage would mean shed have a balance to pay when the term expired.
An ombudsman wrote to Mrs B explaining that our rules only allow us to look into events 
from February 2013 onwards.
Our investigator said Lloyds had treated Mrs B fairly since early 2013. It took her 
circumstances into account to find a solution that allowed her to stay in her home.
Mrs B didnt agree. In summary, she said shed have accepted help from family and friends 
when they were in a better position to help her if Lloyds hadnt advised her to stay on interest 
only terms in 2013. And she could have cashed in a life insurance policy, before it was 
wrongly cancelled in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mrs Bs interest only mortgage was due to expire in 2013, and part was due to expire 
in 2015. 
Lloyds discussed repayment of the mortgage with Mrs B in mid-2013. Lloyds notes say 
Mrs B had no means of repaying the balance. Lloyds asked Mrs B about her income and 
outgoings, and this showed Mrs B couldnt afford to change to a repayment mortgage at that 
time: Mrs B was in her early 70s and her income was from her pension.
Lloyds agreed to extend the term of Mrs Bs mortgage on interest only terms to mid-2018.
In mid-2018 Lloyds discussed Mrs Bs circumstances with her again. Mrs B wasnt able to 
repay the balance, and couldnt afford to change to a repayment mortgage. 
Mrs B didnt want to leave her house, which had been adapted to her sons needs. She 
didnt want to take out an equity release product as she wanted her son to be able to stay in 
the house if anything happened to her. Mrs B wanted to take independent advice, and 
Lloyds gave her time to do this. 
Mrs B told Lloyds she received some money related to an insurance policy and funds from 
family and friends which allowed her to repay about £17,000 of the mortgage and some 
unsecured debts. After reviewing Mrs Bs income and outgoings again, Lloyds found she 
could afford a repayment mortgage for the remaining balance over an eight-year term.
Did Lloyds treat Mrs B fairly?
Mrs B says Lloyds shouldnt have advised her to stay on interest only terms in 2013, as she 
could have repaid the mortgage sooner. I understand Mrs B would have preferred to repay 
her mortgage sooner if she could. But switching to repayment terms would have meant her 
monthly payments increasing. Based on the information she gave to Lloyds, she couldnt 
afford the higher monthly payments. Mrs B told Lloyds she didnt have a lump sum or other 
means to repay the mortgage balance. 
If Mrs B was able to access funds to repay all or part of her mortgage, I dont think Lloyds 
knew this in 2013. Mrs B could have made additional payments to her mortgage account, if 
she was able to do so.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs B in 2013 when it agreed to extend the mortgage. This said the 
mortgage was extended for five years on interest only terms, and it was Mrs Bs 
responsibility to ensure she had a suitable plan to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. 
I think Lloyds made the basis on which it offered a five year extension clear. 
By offering a five-year extension from 2013 to 2018, Lloyds gave Mrs B time to look into 
what options she might have to repay the mortgage, without having to sell her home. And in 
2018 Mrs B was able to reduce her mortgage balance and repay other debts. This change in 
Mrs Bs financial position meant Lloyds could offer her a repayment mortgage. This allows 
Mrs B to stay in her home and repay the mortgage, affordably, over eight years.
I think Lloyds treated Mrs B fairly here. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman