DRN-4044556
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc refused consent to them taking a second 
charge loan on their property.
What happened
Ms J and Mr M took out a repayment mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 2017. In 
December 2022 they were making arrangements to buy a new property. They had a 
mortgage offer for the property they wanted to buy. But they needed short term lending to go 
ahead with the purchase. HSBC said they didnt provide short term lending. And when Ms J 
and Mr M found an alternative lender, HSBC wouldnt consent to a second charge over the 
property.
Ms J and Mr M felt HSBC failed initially to consider their request as they said they wouldnt 
consider a second charge in any circumstances. They drew HSBCs attention to the terms 
and conditions of their existing mortgage they thought were relevant. They said, in summary, 
Ms J and Mr M must not create any additional charges over their property without HSBCs 
consent; HSBC would not unreasonably withhold consent; and Ms J and Mr M agreed it 
would be reasonable for HSBC to refuse consent in certain situations the terms and 
conditions set out. 
Ms J and Mr M asked HSBC to consider the merits of their request in line with the mortgage 
terms and conditions; if they then refused, to explain why HSBC werent unreasonably 
withholding consent; and, if the refusal was due to a blanket policy, to explain why that was 
consistent with the mortgage terms and conditions, which required HSBC to exercise 
discretion. They asked HSBC to give an example of a request for a second charge that 
would fit both their policy and the terms and conditions.
HSBC referred the request to their underwriting department but didnt change their decision. 
In responding to Ms J and Mr Ms complaint they said, in essence, their policy didnt say they 
didnt agree to second charge lending; so, the terms and conditions were right, and they had 
discretion; but internal guidelines said they would only consider a second charge where 
there was a legal reason to do so; and short-term borrowing or bridging finance didnt fall 
into that category. They werent able to provide the example Ms J and Mr M had asked for.
Ms J and Mr M thought HSBCs explanation was contradictory. And they were unhappy with 
the outcome. So, they brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator 
thought HSBC had acted reasonably in declining their request and in deciding which risks 
they would accept. Since Ms J and Mr M didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms J and Mr Ms strength of feeling about their complaint. I note what they say 
about HSBCs failure to disclose their internal policies and how widely they think the 
mortgage terms and conditions are drafted. I can only consider the individual circumstances 
of Ms J and Mr Ms complaint. Whilst I take into account the law, industry best practice and 
other relevant guidance, I wont typically ask HSBC to make changes to their terms and 
conditions or their internal policies. 
Its not unusual for lenders to have policies and guidelines that govern their lending 
decisions. They differ from lender to lender. We dont expect lenders to publish that 
information as it can contain commercially sensitive information. And since policies may 
change from time to time, depending on things like shifting risk appetite and the economic 
climate, what might apply when a borrower first took out a mortgage may change during the 
lifetime of that mortgage. 
HSBC initially told Mr M in December 2022 they wouldnt consent to the second charge on 
grounds their policy was not to agree. The employee Mr M spoke to then didnt seem to be 
aware of the terms and conditions he and Ms J had agreed to on taking out the mortgage. Id 
expect them to have understood they formed part of the mortgage agreement. I can 
understand Mr M found that frustrating. 
The mortgage terms and conditions which Ms J and Mr M highlighted said they must not 
create any other charge over the property without HSBCs written consent and HSBC must 
not unreasonably withhold consent. But Ms J and Mr M agreed it would be reasonable for 
HSBC to refuse consent if, in HSBCs reasonable opinion, it affected or might affect, broadly, 
their security or the ability to recover their lending. So, I can understand why Ms J and Mr M 
felt HSBCs apparently blanket policy not to consent to second charge mortgages was at 
odds with the mortgage terms and conditions. They felt they implied HSBC should exercise 
discretion or, in other words, consider their individual case. 
HSBCs response to Mr Ms request for an explanation was to raise a complaint. That wasnt 
unreasonable since hed expressed dissatisfaction. And HSBC responded quickly after 
getting input from their underwriters, so I dont think it impacted progress.
HSBC explained they would agree to second charges, but only when legally obliged to  it 
wasnt right to say they had a blanket policy to refuse all second charges. I can understand 
why Ms J and Mr M werent persuaded by that since it implied they had no discretion. But I 
think its reasonable to say HSBCs policy was broadly in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. A second charge might increase the risk of mortgage payments not being met 
and/or of making a loss on sale if HSBC had to repossess a property because of arrears and 
the additional costs that might arise as a result. So, it was reasonable for HSBC to think their 
security might be impacted by giving consent to Ms J and Mr M. 
I note Ms J and Mr Ms point that there was enough equity in their property to comfortably 
cover the HSBC loan and the second charge. But they were buying a second property with a 
new mortgage. The timescale for selling their existing property, which would have been 
subject not only to the existing mortgage, but also a second charge, was uncertain. 
The extent to which HSBC carried out that assessment in Ms J and Mr Ms case isnt clear. 
But they considered their case after the complaint was raised. And I dont think it would have 
been unreasonable for HSBC to consider there was a risk to their security - however unlikely 
Ms J and Mr M might feel that would be. 
So, whilst I think HSBC ought to have explained more clearly the reasons why their policy 
wasnt to agree to second charge loans, and to have addressed Ms J and Mr Ms individual 
circumstances in their response, I dont think their decision was unfair. On balance, whilst I 
understand Ms J and Mr M will be disappointed, I dont uphold their complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms J and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman