DRN-1462728
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays in repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to his car under 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged, and he made a claim to Aviva for glass repairs. He didnt want to 
use Avivas approved repairer, and so he used his choice of garage. Mr W was unhappy with 
the repairs made. Aviva sent an investigator to inspect these. It then had another garage 
take on the work. But the repairs were protracted. It took a year for them to be finally 
completed. Mr W was unhappy with the delays, the level of service provided and his loss of 
enjoyment of his car. 
Aviva agreed that there had been avoidable delays. It offered Mr W £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused. It later increased its offer to £300. But Mr W remained 
unhappy. He thought Aviva should pay him the years lease costs of his car, about £7,000, to 
cover his loss of enjoyment. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there had 
been protracted delays in the claim. He thought Avivas level of service had been poor and 
Mr W had to pursue the claim. He thought Aviva should increase its offer of compensation by 
a further £200 to £500. 
Aviva agreed to do this. But Mr W remained unhappy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of the non-
approved repairer as Mr W chose a repairer outside its network. So, if hes unhappy with the 
actions of the repairer, he should complain to it directly. And, as its service wasnt arranged 
by Aviva, I cant consider its actions. I can, however, consider the level of service provided 
by Aviva in dealing with Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W made a claim for the replacement of his windscreen. His policy says under this section 
that Aviva is responsible for the cost of the replacement and any damage caused by the 
glass. 
I can see that Aviva also covered additional damage that was caused by the repairer and so 
wasnt directly incident-related. It later said it had paid for this as it stemmed from the 
incident. Theres been no dispute about the completed repairs, so I wont consider this 
further. 
Looking at the timeline of events, I think there were protracted delays in the claim:
It took a month from instruction for the field engineer to inspect the car.
There were two months between Avivas engineer inspecting the repairs and the car 
being booked in to have further repairs completed.
When a business makes mistakes, as Aviva agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. We also consider the impact the 
mistakes had on the consumer. 
I can understand that Mr W lost enjoyment of his car until it was finally repaired. But, looking 
at the delays that Aviva caused, and at its level of service, I think £500 in total if fair and 
reasonable compensation. I say this because this is what Id require in similar situations. I 
dont require Aviva to increase this or to pay Mr Ws lease costs for a year. 
Putting things right
I think Aviva should pay Mr W £500 in total (£200 in addition to the £300 previously offered), 
as it has already done, to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W the compensation set out above, as it has already done. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman