DRN-3162011
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him six transactions he made to invest in 
binary options between 2014 and 2016.
What happened
Mr S invested £28,000 in what he thought were binary options trades between 2014 and 
2016. In 2019, Mr S complained to Lloyds about these transactions as hed discovered the 
companies hed used to make the investments werent genuine and hed been scammed.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it couldnt carry out a chargeback on the 
payments as too long had passed. And that Mr S had authorised these transactions and it 
had carried out the payments accordingly. It didnt consider the transactions unusual for him, 
so that they wouldve altered the bank to anything suspect. And it said other banking codes 
didnt apply to these types of transaction.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said hed been let down by Lloyds as it had a 
duty of care towards him. He considered it had failed in contacting him about the payments 
and discussing them with him. He felt Lloyds shouldve taken additional steps before 
processing these payments, potentially not allowing them to be paid. And it shouldve also 
done more in relation to the recovery of the funds. Mr S described a challenging experience 
with Lloyds after hed realised hed been the victim of fraud, and said it wasnt helpful and 
made him feel silly and naive.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He was satisfied Mr S was outside the 
timescales for the chargeback process. And he didnt think these transactions were unusual 
considering the general spending on Mr Ss account, so that Lloyds shouldve been altered 
to them and contacted Mr S to discuss them. He said there were no warnings in place about 
the companies Mr S was paying at the time he made the payments, so Lloyds wouldnt have 
had an indication Mr S was possibly about to be scammed. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr S disagreed and said Lloyds shouldve acted at the time and he was only 
looking to break even by having his funds returned. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has referred to an FCA warning from August 2017 as part of his evidence. And a 
FINRA warning in relation to binary options from 2016. The first explicit FINRA warning 
Ive found is from November 2016. So the transactions in question all occurred before 
both these dates. I dont agree Lloyds shouldve read and applied consumer guidance on 
an American website. But in any event, both this warning and the FCA warning werent 
published until months after Mr S made the payments, so they werent applicable at the 
time of the transactions.
Mr S has said that Lloyds failed in its duty of care to him and has also referenced 2012 
published best practice. However I cant agree it did fail. Ive reviewed Mr Ss statements 
and the transactions in question werent unusual for his account. Hed been carrying out 
transactions to investment companies, which included binary options firms, of similar 
values for around 18 months prior to the transactions hes now complaining about. I 
havent seen anything to suggest these transactions were therefore out of character or 
suspect, so that Lloyds shouldve stepped in from 2014. This complaint only relates to 
the transactions from 2014 onwards, totalling £28,000.
Mr S has explained he did research into binary options and found positive reviews for the 
companies he used  which made them seem genuine. He says however Lloyds 
shouldve carried out additional checks on his payments before processing them. Ive 
explained above why I dont agree it shouldve done more, but Im also unsure if it had, 
what difference this wouldve made. If it had spoken to Mr S, he wouldve been confident, 
due to his research. And it seems unlikely Lloyds wouldve found out anything different to 
what he did at that time, if it had searched the companies. I appreciate what is now 
known about binary options and that this type of trading has since been banned by the 
FCA for UK operating firms. But this wasnt the case back in 2014 to 2016.
Mr S says Lloyds shouldve known the companies werent regulated in the UK as the 
payments mustve been international. But Ive reviewed his statements and theres no 
indication hes paying a foreign company on the payment information hes entered. Hes 
only charged a foreign transfer fee for the final payment he made in 2016 and this wasnt 
a debit card payment. So I cant see how, on the face of it, Lloyds wouldve been aware 
he wasnt paying a UK regulated or based company  and Ive already explained why I 
dont think it needed to look further into these payments. And as the last payment Mr S 
sent was an international bank transfer, not a debit card payment, Mr S shouldve been 
aware he was sending money in a different way and abroad himself.
I accept Mr S has been the victim of a sophisticated scam, so that despite his research 
and best efforts to invest wisely, he lost a large sum of money. But Ive seen no evidence 
that Lloyds acted unfairly in this case or had reasonable grounds to step in and stop 
these payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman