DRN-2044797
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Premier account.
Lloyds charged Mr E a monthly fee for the Premier account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Mr E thinks that Lloyds should refund him the fees he paid for the account, 
plus interest.
What happened
Mr E has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us information from its 
records, which shows that he first opened a fee-free account in 1993; and that Lloyds sold 
him the Premier account in December 2006, which he kept until January 2020 when he went 
back to a fee-free account. I think Lloyds records about this are probably reliable, and I have 
taken them to be accurate. 
I understand that for some of the time between 1993 and December 2006, Mr Es fee-free 
account may have been in joint names with his partner, but that they separated before 
Lloyds sold him Premier account and it has only ever been in his sole name.
Two of our adjudicators have already looked into Mr Es complaint. They both considered 
that Lloyds had sold the Premier account to Mr E fairly and didnt recommend that it should 
give him any money back. Mr E didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Es complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr E and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
At the outset of this complaint, Mr E and Lloyds disagreed about the way in which Lloyds 
sold him the Premier account. Mr E said that Lloyds did so during a discussion over the 
counter in one of its branches and that Lloyds recommended that he should buy it. Lloyds 
told us that Mr E bought the account online using its website.
 
In correspondence with us, Mr E has been very consistent in explaining that he did visit one 
of Lloyds branches and did discuss the Premier account while he was there. Hes 
mentioned that he was reviewing his financial arrangements after separating from his 
partner. 
However, Lloyds has sent us a screenshot from its internal system from 2006. The 
screenshot records the Location of the sale as having been Internet Banking. 
Although I cannot tell for sure what happened, it seems likely to me that the discussion Mr E 
has described probably took place, but that Lloyds didnt actually sell the account to him 
during the conversation. It only did so at a later date or time through its website or other 
online method. 
In recent correspondence with us, Mr E has mentioned that Lloyds on-line process was 
simple, so he seems to have accepted that there were at least two events. As these would 
have been separate, Im satisfied from Lloyds record that I should consider this case as 
being about an online sale. 
With an online sale, its very unlikely that Lloyds would have given Mr E any personal advice, 
or recommended that he should buy the Premier account. But to be fair to Mr E, its online 
system should have told him about the fees for the Premier account and described the 
benefits he could get in return. I would also have expected Lloyds to have given Mr E a fair 
choice about buying the Premier account or keeping his fee-free account. 
I cant tell for sure what screens or information Mr E saw when Lloyds sold him the Premier 
account, as they may well have changed over the years, and those from 2006 are no longer 
available. But from what I have seen, I think that Lloyds system probably did tell Mr E about 
the cost and the potential benefits of the Premier account. At the time in question, Mr E had 
held a fee-free account for several years and I havent seen anything to make me think that 
he couldnt have kept it; so, Im satisfied that Lloyds also gave him a choice. I think Lloyds 
met its obligation to Mr E for an online sale.
Mr E has mentioned that he felt under emotional pressure to buy the Premier account. I 
accept that his separation would have been a difficult time for him, but I dont think that 
Lloyds applied any pressure to him. 
In 2006, the main potential benefits of the Premier account included travel insurance, use of 
a car breakdown service, and insurance for mobile phones and home emergencies. Mr E 
has told us that he had no need for these benefits and that he thinks Lloyds should have 
assessed whether they were appropriate for him. However, as I dont think that Lloyds 
recommended the Premier account to Mr E, it wasnt obliged to do this. 
Mr E has also said that on many occasions he tried to switch back to a fee-free account 
earlier than January 2020 and has indicated that Lloyds wouldnt let him because he had a 
large overdraft. He hasnt given us many details about this point, and it seems to be 
separate from his complaint about mis-selling. I havent considered it as part of this decision. 
This means that Mr E is free to raise it further with Lloyds if he so wishes. However, I cant 
give him any advice about this or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint. Nor 
can I tell if any case Mr E may subsequently wish to bring to us about it will fall inside or 
outside the rules about the types of complaint we can consider, or the time limits which apply 
to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Es complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold him a Premier account. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman