DRN-3090759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P booked a holiday abroad in September 2019. They were due to travel in
September 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker in
December 2019. They declared a number of pre-existing medical conditions, which Great
Lakes agreed to cover.
In July 2020, Mr P saw his GP. The GP advised Mr P against flying on holiday. They felt that
due to Mr Ps underlying health conditions, he was at high risk of severe Covid-19 and that
flying would pose an added risk. So Mr and Mrs P cancelled their holiday. They were
refunded some of their costs by their travel provider. They made a claim for the remaining
costs associated with the cancellation of their trip.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the policy didnt cover claims which were down to
the fear of developing Covid-19. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with Great Lakes decision, so
they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. She accepted that the
cancellation section of the policy didnt cover their specific circumstances. But she noted that
the policy terms specifically excluded cover if a policyholder travelled against medical
advice. This meant that whatever Mr and Mrs P did, they werent entitled to any cover under
the policy. So she felt the fair outcome was for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said the reason for the cancellation of the trip was due to Mr Ps
pre-existing medical condition, not the exacerbation of an illness. It maintained the
cancellation section of the policy didnt cover the claim.  
I issued my provisional decision on 22 July 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I planned to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct Great Lakes to 
reconsider their claim. I said:
Relevant Regulatory Rules
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say that a firm should
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle
of the service being provided.
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Great Lakes. As Mr and Mrs P cancelled their trip before
travelling, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to consider their claim under the
cancellation section of the policy. This says:
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover 
per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are
contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions )
which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged
to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory
capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current United Kingdom legislation.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the
start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs P chose to cancel their holiday because of advice they
were given by Mr Ps GP. The GP practice wrote a letter in support of the claim and Ive
considered this carefully. They said:
I confirm that on 31/07/20, Dradvised the above named patient against flying on holiday.
This advice was based on his established high risk of coronavirus infection due to his
significant co-morbidity and the added risk that air travel would pose.
Having looked carefully at the policy terms, I can see that cancellation due to a medical
practitioner advising against travel isnt something the policy covers. So I agree that on a
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Ps claim simply isnt covered by the
terms of their contract.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. Thats the case here. I say that because the policy also includes a
Medical Declaration section. This says:
To be covered, you must be fit and able to undertake your planned trip, and: you are NOT
travelling against the advice of a doctor (or would be travelling against the advice of a doctor
had you sought his/her advice).I can see that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) also clearly highlights that
there is no cover if a policyholder travels abroad against medical advice. So the at a glance
paperwork Great Lakes provided also highlights that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have had any
cover had they ignored their GPs advice.
So in this case, if Mr and Mrs P had travelled as planned, they wouldve been travelling
against Mr Ps doctors advice. This means their policy wouldve been invalidated and they
wouldnt have been entitled to under cover at all under the policy, under any section. So if Mr
and Mrs P had travelled, despite their doctors advice, their policy wouldve been of no value
to them whatsoever. In effect then, Mr and Mrs P were left in a position where they werent
covered if they travelled and they werent covered if they cancelled their trip. And in my view,
I dont think its fair and reasonable - in the circumstances of this case  for Mr and Mrs P to
have no cover when they were left with no option but to cancel their trip following Mr Ps
doctors advice not to travel.
I appreciate Mr P didnt suffer an exacerbation of his existing illnesses. But his doctor
thought they put him at a significant risk of severe illness if he had travelled. And I note that
Mr P had declared these conditions to Great Lakes, which had agreed to cover them. Hed
also paid an additional medical premium. I think then that its fair to conclude that Mr Ps
claim did, in effect, arise from the conditions which Great Lakes had agree to accept, albeit
indirectly.
So overall, in these particular circumstances, I currently think the fair and reasonable
outcome is for Great Lakes to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ps claim, in line with the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Both Great Lakes and Mr and Mrs P let me know that they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason for me to change 
them. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ps claim, in line
with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman