DRN-3282539
The complaint
Ms L complains about administration fees which EBS Pensions Limited has charged her 
while it operated her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2018, Ms L applied online for a Liberty Option SIPP. She said shed been 
contacted by an adviser from Liberty SIPP Limited (LBL), who placed pressure on her to 
apply for the SIPP. She considered LBL was linked to her financial adviser, which Ill call J 
and that J had recommended that she should establish the Liberty SIPP. Ms L invested 
£4000 cash into the SIPP. In April 2018, LBL wrote to Ms L to ask how she wanted the cash 
in the SIPP to be invested, but Ms L didnt provide any further instruction. This meant her 
investment remained held in cash.
Subsequently, EBS took over LBLs book of business in October 2018. LBL was placed into 
administration in January 2020.
In April 2018 and March 2019, annual SIPP fees of £175 plus VAT (a total of £210) were 
applied to Ms Ls account. Ms L was unhappy with the fees which had been levied, as she 
said shed been told by LBL that no fees would apply. She said shed been told that her cash 
investment of £4000 would remain level until she reached the age of 75 years. She was also 
unhappy that EBS intended to apply a transfer-out fee of £100 plus VAT if she chose to 
disinvest the cash from the SIPP. She felt EBS had misadvised and misinformed her about 
the SIPP and how it worked which had led to her investing in it. She asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think EBS was 
responsible for any information Ms L mightve been given before applying for the SIPP. He 
was satisfied that EBS was charging the same annual fees as LBL had previously charged 
Ms L, which had been set out in LBLs schedule of fees. And he thought that it was fair for 
EBS to charge Ms L annual administration fees as there was some work involved in 
administering a SIPP, even if its only investment was held in cash.
Ms L disagreed. She said that EBS had taken her money without her being aware that 
charges would be due. It seems that Ms L transferred her money out of the SIPP on              
1 October 2019 and a transfer-out fee was applied.
The complaints been passed to me to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, I think EBS has treated her fairly and Ill 
explain why.
First, its important I make it clear that EBS wasnt responsible for any information or advice 
Ms L may have been given to establish the Liberty Option SIPP, or to invest her cash within 
it. Whilst EBS took over the administration of LBLs SIPPs in October 2018, it didnt agree to 
take responsibility for any of LBLs previous actions. This means EBS wasnt responsible for 
any information Ms L was given either at the point of application or for ensuring that a full 
welcome pack was sent to her. Neither is it responsible for the annual fee Ms L was charged 
in April 2018 by LBL, as this fee was charged prior to EBS starting to operate the SIPP.
If Ms L feels she was misadvised and misinformed both to invest in the SIPP and in relation 
to the way the SIPP worked, she would need to complain about this to J, her financial 
adviser. Or if she considers any misinformation about the fee structure or SIPP operation 
was given by LBL or that it failed to send her a full welcome pack, shed need to get in touch 
with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) to make a complaint. 
EBS is only responsible for administration of the SIPP after October 2018. So I need to 
decide whether it was fair and reasonable for EBS to charge Ms L an annual fee and a 
transfer-out fee for her SIPP after October 2018 and if so, what level of fee would be fair.
The industry regulators Principles for Business set out fundamental obligations on the 
financial businesses it covers. In my view, Principle six is particularly relevant. This states 
that a financial business must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly. As such, Ive carefully considered EBS obligation to treat Ms L fairly when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2019, EBS charged Ms L an annual fee of £175 plus VAT. This is in line with the 
Schedule of Fees which LBL was responsible for sending Ms L when she opened the SIPP. 
EBS didnt increase the SIPP fees after it took over administration of it from LBL. And EBS 
has provided me with a copy of Ms Ls application form and online activation form both of 
which were completed whilst LBL was the Option SIPP administrator. Both of these 
documents refer to the fact that fees will be taken, although I acknowledge they state that 
these fees would be personalised and set out to Ms L separately. 
EBS has also provided us with a copy of the Schedule of Fees it thinks was likely sent to   
Ms L by LBL as part of her welcome pack. This Schedule of Fees lists an annual 
administration fee of £175 plus VAT. I note the covering letter was correctly addressed to the 
address for Ms L which shed given LBL on her application form. So I think EBS was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that by agreeing to establish the SIPP and acknowledging 
that fees would apply on the application paperwork, Ms L had agreed to the application of 
relevant fees.
It's also important I make it clear that EBS is a commercial business and there is a cost to it 
in providing administration of the SIPP, through the carrying out of necessary tasks and 
responsibilities. This would also include the transferring of cash out of a SIPP and the 
closure of it. And this would be the case even where a SIPP holds only a cash investment. I 
dont think then that the level of fees EBS has charged Ms L are unfair. I also think the fees 
are reflective of the likely work that EBS undertook in operating her SIPP.
I appreciate Ms L says that her investment in the SIPP was left in cash and lost value. But 
shes also told us that she was led to believe that her investment would remain level until 
she reached the age of 75 years. And she didnt respond to LBLs letter asking her how 
shed like to invest her funds, which suggests that she was happy with a cash only 
investment into the SIPP. So on balance, I think it was fair for EBS to conclude that Ms L 
was satisfied with the way her SIPP was operating. Overall, on the specific facts of this complaint, I dont think EBS has done anything wrong 
which it needs to put right. So Im not directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman