DRN-3802128
The complaint
Mrs J and the estate of Mr J complain because Zurich Assurance Ltd declined a claim for 
critical illness benefit under a joint decreasing term assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a joint decreasing term assurance policy, provided by Zurich, in 2009. 
This policy ended in November 2011, when Mr and Mrs J took out a new policy providing life 
or earlier critical illness cover through an independent financial adviser. 
Sadly, Mr J was diagnosed with a terminal illness in October 2021 and he and Mrs J made a 
claim for critical illness benefit. Unfortunately, Mr J passed away in the early months of 2021. 
In April 2021, Zurich told Mrs J that the claim wasnt covered. Zurich said this was because 
Mr J hadnt informed it that he had a medical condition (sarcoidosis) which he was taking 
medication and was under regular hospital review for when the policy was taken out in 2011. 
Zurich said, if it had been aware of this, it wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs J the policy on 
the same terms. Zurich said it considered Mr Js misrepresentation of his medical history to 
be deliberate/reckless. Zurich cancelled the policy and refunded Mrs J all the premiums that 
had been paid. 
Unhappy, Mrs J brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Zurich had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mrs J didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Js sudden diagnosis and his subsequent passing. This must 
have been a very traumatic and sad time for Mrs J and her family, and Id like to offer them 
my sincere condolences for their loss. 
In this final decision, I can only comment on the activities which Zurich is responsible for  
that is the decision to decline Mr and Mrs Js claim. I understand Mrs J says some of Mr Js 
medical information may not have been carried over properly from the previous policy or 
may have been noted down incorrectly and she is unsure in what manner Mr Js answers 
were recorded. But Zurich wasnt responsible for selling this policy to Mr and Mrs J in 2011. 
Any complaint about the medical information collected and passed to Zurich would need to 
be directed to the financial adviser who sold Mr and Mrs J this policy. 
When considering Zurichs actions in this case, Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
good industry practice about managing claims for misrepresentation and treating customers 
fairly (namely, the Code of Practice set out by the Association of British Insurers (ABI)), as 
well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that Zurich correctly considered Mr and Mrs Js claim under the policy 
which was taken out in 2011. This wasnt a continuation of the policy which began in 2009. 
The evidence which Ive seen shows the first policy ended and the second policy began in 
2011. And Ive seen a copy of a letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs J confirming this. In 
2011, Mr J needed to tell Zurich all the material information about his health which he knew 
or ought to have known, in response to the questions it asked him. 
The confirmation of application for the insurance policy submitted on behalf of Mr J in 
November 2011, asked:
In the last five years, unless already disclosed, have you suffered from or been 
asked or advised to have any test or investigation for:

Lung disorders including sarcoidosis other than asthma or bronchitis?
Mr J answered no.
The confirmation of application for the insurance policy also asked:
Other than for the conditions you have already disclosed, are you taking any 
prescribed drugs, medicines, tablets or any other treatment?  
Other than for the conditions you have already disclosed, do you intend to seek, or 
are you considering seeking, medical advice or treatment?
Mr J also answered no to these two questions. 
Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence in this case, and Im satisfied this 
clearly shows that Mr J suffered from sarcoidosis. Letters in Mr Js medical records dated 
March 2010, August 2010 and December 2010 refer to this diagnosis, and to Mr J being 
under hospital review for the condition. A letter dated April 2011 also refers to Mr Js 
sarcoidosis and says Mr J would be reviewed again in three months-time. Mr Js July 2011 
hospital review resulted in him being recommended medication for his sarcoidosis and a 
September 2011 review of Mr Js condition noted that the medication had resulted in a large 
improvement, and that Mr J should continue to take the medication. The same 
recommendation was made at a hospital review in October 2011. 
Im satisfied that the questions which Zurich asked about Mr Js health in 2011 were clear 
and specific and, based on the medical information Ive seen, I think Mr J should have 
answered yes to the questions set out above. Mr J was also given the opportunity to check 
and confirm the answers recorded in his initial application form for the 2011 policy in a letter 
sent to him and Mrs J by Zurich on 23 November 2011. I think this letter also gave Mr and 
Mrs J clear warnings about the potential consequences of providing incorrect information 
about their health, amongst other things. 
Overall, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr J either knew or should have 
known that the answers he gave to Zurichs questions were both incorrect and relevant to 
Zurich, or that Mr J acted without any care as to whether his answers were either correct or 
relevant to Zurich. 
I understand Mrs J is unhappy because Zurich has termed Mr Js misrepresentation to be deliberate/reckless, and I can appreciate why this might be. However, the ABI Code of 
Practice sets out categories of misrepresentation, one of which is called deliberate or 
reckless. Im satisfied that the misrepresentation in this case meets these criteria, and so I 
dont think Zurich has acted unreasonably by mirroring the wording used in the guidance 
which it assessed Mr and Mrs Js claim against.  
Zurich doesnt appear to have given Mrs J the opportunity to explain the reasons why Mr J 
didnt tell it about his sarcoidosis before making a judgment about the category of 
misrepresentation which this falls into, but it isnt in dispute that Mr J should have told Zurich 
about his condition, so I dont think this affects the outcome of Mr and Mrs Js claim. 
Zurich is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept, and at what cost, as 
long as Zurich treats customers with the same characteristics in the same way. Zurich has 
demonstrated that, if Mr J had answered yes to the above questions, then it would have 
resulted in a different underwriting outcome (i.e., Zurich would have charged a higher 
premium for the insurance policy). In these circumstances, the ABI Code entitles Zurich to 
decline Mr and Mrs Js claim and cancel the policy from inception. Zurich has decided to 
refund the premiums paid for the policy to Mrs J. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I understand Mrs J says Mr Js sarcoidosis wasnt relevant to their critical illness claim, but 
Zurich is entitled to take the action which it has regardless of whether there is any link 
between the misrepresentation and the cause of the claim. Based on the circumstances of 
this case, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Zurich to do what Mrs J has suggested 
and pay either a percentage of her claim or to allow her to pay the difference in the 
premiums it would have charged if Mr J had told it about his sarcoidosis. In making this final 
decision, I need to reach an independent and impartial outcome, which is fair to both parties. 
While I have every compassion and sympathy for Mrs Js situation, this simply wouldnt be a 
fair recommendation to make to Zurich in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Js claim wasnt made under the life insurance element of their cover but, even if 
it was, Im satisfied this wouldnt make any different to the outcome here as Mr Js 
misrepresentation affected the policy as a whole.
Mrs J also complained to Zurich about its delays in dealing with her and Mr Js claim and this 
was addressed in a separate final response letter from Zurich dated 4 February 2022. Ive 
considered the timeline of events from when Mr and Mrs J first notified Zurich about their 
claim.
Zurich has acknowledged there were delays in sending a claim form to Mr and Mrs J. After 
receiving Mr and Mrs Js claim form on 23 November 2021, Zurich requested information 
from Mr Js GP. This wasnt an unusual or an unreasonable request. 
Zurich, in common with other insurers, wouldnt generally ask for medical information at the 
point of offering a policy like this and its not something Id expect it to have done here. I 
understand Mrs J is unhappy with the timeframe of Mr Js medical history which Zurich 
requested, but Zurich was entitled to make reasonable enquiries into the claim before 
making a decision about cover. Im satisfied that Zurich had a justifiable reason for asking for 
the medical information which it requested (dating back five years prior to when this policy 
started in 2011), and that the information it requested was relevant and proportionate. 
Zurich completed its investigations into Mr and Mrs Js claim in April 2022, around five 
months after receiving their claim form. I appreciate this delay will have caused Mr and Mrs J 
stress and worry at what was already a very difficult time. But some of these delays were 
outside of Zurichs control, for example, when it was awaiting information from Mr Js doctors. Zurich paid Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation for any trouble and upset which its 
delays caused. Im satisfied this is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, and I know shell be upset with the outcome Ive reached, but I 
wont be directing Zurich to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and the 
estate of Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman