DRN-3483446
The complaint
Mr D says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his account without notice and that it 
acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
Mr D held a bank account with Lloyds with an overdraft limit of £3,000. Mr D went over his 
overdraft limit and following letters asking him to get in touch about this in April and May 
2020 Lloyds sent Mr D a final demand letter to his last known address on 21 July giving him 
30 days notice that it was going to close his account unless the outstanding balance was 
settled. Following no response Mr Ds account was closed and a default was recorded on his 
credit file and the debt sold to a third party.
Mr D complained to Lloyds that he received no notification or letters regarding the default 
because he had moved address. He says he spoke to Lloyds in between June and July to let 
it know his situation and that hed moved. 
Lloyds says the first record it had of Mr D informing it hed moved wasnt until August 2020 
and that the correct procedures were followed and letters were sent to the last known 
address it had registered for him. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and thought that it had followed the 
correct processes and hadnt done anything wrong in closing his account and recording a 
default with the credit reference agencies. But they did think that Lloyds shouldve stepped in 
earlier and had acted unfairly by continuing to charge overdraft fees when Mr D hadnt seen 
or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. They thought to put things 
right Lloyds should rework Mr Ds account and remove all interest and charges added to the 
account from 20 July 2019. 
Lloyds accepted it shouldve stepped in earlier and made an offer to settle the complaint by:
Re-working Mr Ds overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 20 July 2019 are removed. This would mean a refund of £983.06 of daily 
overdraft fees;
The account in question closed with an outstanding balance of £3,037.86 so the 
stated refund will be used to reduce this debt. As the debt was sold by the bank to a 
third party the Bank will decide whether to repurchase this so a repayment plan can 
be arranged directly with Mr D. If the debt remains with the third party then Mr D will 
need to contact this firm directly to repay the outstanding balance; and
Lloyds will arrange for the default to be backdated to reflect if the action to close the 
account commenced on 20 July 2019. As this process usually takes 3 to 6 months it 
would mean the default will be recorded as applied on 20 October 2019.
Mr D declined the offer, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr D has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr D back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr Ds initial complaint point is that it was unfair Lloyds closed his account and registered a 
default on his credit file without giving any notice. So the question I have to ask is whether 
Lloyds did anything wrong in closing Mr Ds account or in the processes it followed when 
doing this - in particular, closing his account and registering a default when he didnt pay 
back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Ds account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that Lloyds sent a number of letters to the address it had registered for Mr D notifying him 
that his account was in arrears and what was to happen to his account if no action was 
taken. 
I understand Mr D says he never received these letters because he had moved from the 
address Lloyds had registered for him. But Lloyds records show that he only notified it hed 
moved in August 2020 following the closure of the account. 
So I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong as it wrote to the address it had registered for him 
and as no payment was received and Mr D failed to get in touch his account was closed and 
a default registered for the outstanding balance. 
And I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in recording a default on Mr Ds credit file  
Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate reflection 
about what happened. 
In regards to the second part of Mr Ds complaint, Im in agreement with our adjudicator here 
that Lloyds shouldve stepped in sooner than it did. Where a business continues to allow a 
consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed 
typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to 
refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have 
realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr Ds statements, our adjudicator thought that by 
20 July 2019 it was clear Mr Ds overdraft was unsustainable as his account hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance over a number of months and thought Lloyds should refund the 
interest and charges added to the overdraft from this point. 
As Lloyds has offered to settle the complaint in-line with what Id expect Im satisfied that 
what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the 
case, its up to Mr D to decide whether to accept Lloyds offer.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mr D is fair and reasonable and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman