DRN-3267247
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to 
invest into two Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS). Mr D maintains that the 
recommendation was unsuitable and has led to losses, for which he seeks compensation.
What happened
In February and March 2015, Mr D received advice from SJP to invest £200,000 into Oxford 
Capital Infrastructure EIS and Ingenious Renewable Energy EIS. Mr D was seeking to 
mitigate a large tax bill and sought tax efficient investments. A suitability letter, dated 2 April 
2015, recommended £100,000 to be invested in each EIS. Mr D says that SJP misled him as 
to the level of risk exposure. Mr D had been prepared to accept an upper medium risk level 
but was unaware that the whole capital in each EIS was at risk. Mr D also raised concern 
that the EISs were held out as being asset-backed, whereas substantial loans were taken at 
the outset by some investee companies. Mr D maintained that SJP had failed to undertake 
due diligence before recommending the products.
SJP say that Mr D was an experienced investor, already holding EIS investments with the 
same providers. The recommendation accounted for 8.79% of his investable wealth at the 
time. The suitability letter and EIS Declaration highlighted the higher risk nature of these 
investments and Mr D had confirmed at the time that he understood the risks with the 
particular investments. No guarantees were given as to performance. Mr D would have been 
aware that whilst attractive tax reliefs were available, his capital was at risk with potential for 
significant loss of capital if a company failed. SJP were not responsible for any investment 
decisions made. As to concerns about gearing in the Oxford Capital EIS, there was no 
evidence to demonstrate that any limits were in place and it had been highlighted that there 
may be concentrated exposure to the same sector.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought that Mr D was able to bear capital 
losses and noted the funds amounted to just over 8% of his investable wealth. Further, the 
investments were affordable in the context of his circumstances. The EISs met Mr Ds 
objective of mitigating his income tax bill from earnings in the previous year and provided 
inheritance tax relief and loss relief. Other tax efficient products had been considered by SJP 
but had been discounted. Our investigator considered the description of risk in the suitability 
letter and the recognition by the adviser that Mr D had considerable experience making 
investments and was comfortable with EIS portfolios, knowing they may be,  highly 
concentrated and contain high risk and specialist investments. She also highlighted that the 
IMs referred to the risk of losing all capital investment. Overall, our investigator concluded 
that Mr D was prepared to take more risk to gain tax advantages.
Our investigator also thought the IMs for both products highlighted the possibility of gearing 
and borrowing and the fund managers did invest in companies which developed, owned or 
operated assets, in line with the investment strategy for each EIS. SJP were not responsible 
for the management of the investee companies.
Mr D disagreed with the view. He maintained that the investments were mis-sold to him, as 
they exposed him to too much risk and it was mis-leading to describe them as asset backed. 
SJP had failed to engage with the complaint points Mr D raised.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im now satisfied that both parties have had reasonable opportunity to provide information 
about the complaint. Its helpful to explain at the outset that we provide an informal dispute 
resolution service, where the information provided by each party is considered and where 
decisions are reached on the balance of probabilities.
Mr D has raised a number of issues. I have taken into consideration all the matters raised 
and I hope Mr D wont see it as a discourtesy if I havent addressed every point. This 
decision addresses the crux of the complaint against SJP, namely, that the recommendation 
was unsuitable. In considering whether the recommendation was suitable for Mr Ds needs, 
Ive considered his circumstances at the time the advice was sought, his attitude to risk, his 
objectives and capacity for loss. Im also mindful that it isnt fair and reasonable to make an 
assessment with the benefit of hindsight, so this decision focuses on the point at which the 
recommendation to invest was given.
Mr D was self-employed with an annual income of around £120,000. At the time of seeking 
advice, Mr D was looking to mitigate a tax bill of £1,000,000 from 2013/2014. Mr D had 
investment experience, holding over £1,100,000 in other investments, of which £500,000 
was in other EIS products. Mr D had £928,140 in his pension and held £744,720 in cash with 
funds in a sterling and euro deposit account. Mr Ds outstanding mortgage was around 
£750,000 and he held a partnership loan of £300,000. As to future finances, Mr D anticipated 
his income would remain stable and he expected to receive £1,000,000 from sale of shares 
he held in other businesses. Set in this context, it is my view that Mr D was in a position to 
withstand capital losses, without a material impact on his day-today living standards. Thats 
supported by the commentary in the suitability report and by the completed tick boxes on the 
Oxford Capital EIS application form, signed by Mr D for which he ticked, I confirm that I 
have sufficient liquid assets/cash to withstand any investment losses.
At the time, Mr Ds core objective was tax efficiency, as he was seeking to mitigate a large 
tax bill. Each EIS provided 30% income tax relief on the sums invested, which could be 
rolled back into the previous tax year, along with capital gains and inheritance tax benefits. 
In my view the recommendation met the objective of tax efficiency. Its also clear from the 
suitability report that consideration was given to other investments, including ISAs, Unit 
Trusts and Bonds but these were discounted, in particular I note that whilst VCTs gave tax 
benefits the timelines of investment were different and the tax relief couldnt be carried back 
a year. The suitability report also showed that paying off of debts was considered and 
discounted. 
The documentation from the time shows that Mr D had wider investment experience, said to 
be in the application forms, over five years experience of investing in equities and one to 
five years investing in tax efficient schemes and AIM-listed companies. I have also taken into 
account that Mr D had invested previously in EIS schemes to secure tax benefits with the 
same providers. 
Further, the client review documented that Mr D wanted to invest in EISs with exposure to 
infrastructure assets. These particular EIS products focused on investment in companies 
that were to develop, own and/or operate energy plants or projects, which was again consistent with Mr Ds objectives.
As to risk appetite SJP, assessed Mr D as having an upper medium risk appetite, as 
someone :
 . . .who is willing to invest a proportion of their overall wealth in higher-risk assets with the 
potential for higher returns. You understand the additional risks of investing in unquoted 
companies with infrastructure investments and are comfortable with some of your capital 
being invested in these markets.
You are generally investing for up to five years or longer, although these types of EIS have a 
limited life expectancy and recognise that you could still experience significant falls in the 
value of your investments.
Mr D has placed significant weight on the categorisation of the EISs by SJP as upper 
medium risk, but when making my assessment I have considered the content of the 
information available at the time and Mr Ds wider investment knowledge. On balance, Im 
persuaded it is likely that Mr D understood the information provided. Mr D signed the 
following EIS Declaration, which I am persuaded it is more likely than not that he read:
I understand Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS) are only suitable for experienced, 
sophisticated or high net worth investors who accept that:
. . . .
-investing in smaller companies represents a much higher risk than investing in larger, well 
established companies listed on, say, the FTSE All Share Index.
-the fact that EIS companies are not listed on an exchange means that they are inherently 
illiquid, and you may be unable to sell them at the point you wish to.
-the legislation surrounding EIS, and as a result their tax treatment, may change in the 
future.
-the high risk nature of EIS means you could get back less than was originally invested. 
While tax reliefs exist to limit any such loss, they remain only suitable for clients who can 
afford to lose money.
In addition, its my view that the financial review letter did set the risk in context,  You have 
considerable experience of making investments and you are comfortable with an EIS 
portfolio that may be highly concentrated and contain high risk and specialist investments. 
Theres nothing to show that Mr D queried this information at the time and neither did he 
raise any concerns with the information in the IMs, which Mr D confirmed he had read and 
understood, in particular the risk sections. Amongst other things, these sections highlighted 
a high-risk profile:
Oxford Capital
You should only consider subscribing if you are able to bear the risk of losing your entire 
investment. It is possible that we may not achieve our targeted returns when the investments 
are sold, or that one or more of the companies in your portfolio may fail, resulting in your 
shares being sold for substantially less than their original cost, or returning no value at all . . .The Oxford Capital Infrastructure EIS will invest in unquoted securities. Such investments 
can be more risky than investments in quotes securities or shares and market-makers may 
not be prepared to deal in them. Unquoted securities may be subject to transfer restrictions 
and may be difficult to sell. It may be difficult to obtain information as to who much an 
investment is worth or how risky it is at any given time. Investing in private companies may 
expose you to a significant risk of losing all the money invested.
Ingenious
Such an investment involves a high degree of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. 
. .
This section contains the material risk factors that the Manager believes to be associated 
with such investment. If any of the following events or circumstances arise, the financial 
position and/or results of an investment could be materially and adversely affected: as could  
the availability of tax reliefs. In such circumstances investors could lose all or part of their 
money.
The Ingenious application form also highlighted, Investing in Qualifying Shares through the 
Service involves a high degree of risk, any may not be suitable for all investors . . 
Taking all of the above into account, Im persuaded that it is unlikely that Mr D was unaware 
that the whole of his capital was at risk.
Liquidity risks were also drawn to Mr Ds attention in the suitability letter. Further, SJP 
highlighted the lack of diversification in making two investments within one energy sector, 
which increased Mr Ds risk exposure. The suitability letter expressly stated that Mr D was 
willing to accept this greater concentration of risk. In my view the Oxford Capital IM 
highlighted the possibility that investee companies might borrow funds to develop energy 
plants and/or to support operational costs; this was set out in the risk sections. The 
Ingenious IM highlighted that acquisitions may benefit from debt finance and modest levels 
of gearing may be used to acquire built assets. And Im mindful that at the point of 
recommendation, it was unknown which investee company funds would be invested in but it 
was clear that each investee company would operate in the energy sector and would 
develop, own and/or operate energy plants or projects. 
Ive seen that Mr D said that the aim of the investments was to seek return of his capital with 
some small percentage uplift, and accordingly he believed that the investment was pitched 
to him as being relatively low risk. But I think its important to highlight the distinction 
between the investment strategy which was geared towards capital preservation and a 
relatively small return whilst also providing generous tax benefits and the concept of risk to 
achieve those aims. As Ive addressed above, theres common ground about the broad 
objectives for these products and Ive not seen anything to show that these products were 
pitched as relatively low risk; that assertion is inconsistent with all of the core 
documentation provided at the time.
Overall, therefore, I find that it is more likely than not that Mr D decided to proceed with the 
investments in the knowledge of a higher risk exposure, in order to secure tax benefits.  
Again, thats supported by the boxes selected on the Oxford Capital application forms signed 
by Mr D, for which he ticked, My main objective is the tax benefits. The return from 
investments is not so important to me. I understand that I am putting my capital at risk to 
achieve the tax benefits.
Further, Ive taken into account that sums invested, £200,000, were just over 8% of Mr Ds 
investable wealth at the time. Leaving approximately £544,720 in cash reserves, in addition to his monthly income.
Taking these factors as a whole, I am not persuaded that Mr D was exposed to more risk 
than he wanted to take. Given the emphasis on tax efficiency, I consider that it is more likely 
than not that these were investments Mr D wanted to make and he made an informed 
decision to proceed. It is incredibly unfortunate that some of the underlying companies failed 
due a combination of risk factors materialising around the same time, but it doesnt follow 
that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr Ds needs. Its common ground that Mr D did 
receive the tax benefits he sought and as our investigator has explained, Mr D may be able 
to claim loss relief. And as I explained at the outset, it isnt fair and reasonable to make an 
assessment with the benefit of hindsight. Further, SJP were not responsible for the 
management of the EISs and the performance of the underlying investee companies, which 
was expressly addressed in the EIS declaration.
On balance, in light of my findings as a whole, I think SJPs advice to invest in the EISs was 
suitable for Mr D. And whilst I understand why Mr D feels strongly about sustaining losses, I 
cant fairly hold SJP responsible for them, so I wont be asking SJP to do anything more. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman