DRN-2851893
The complaint
 A limited company which I refer to as G complains that Starling Bank Limited recommended 
the use a software that would enable it to make multiple payments to its employees in one 
go. G says it acted on that recommendation, but it wasnt able to process the payments as 
intended. It says that it has suffered financial loss as a result. 
In bringing this complaint, G is represented by its director who I refer to as Mr D.
What happened
 In June 2020, Mr D asked Starling how G might to go about making salary payments to all 
its employees at once rather than having to make such payments individually. In response 
Starling sent a message to G saying: 
Thank you for getting in touch earlier about being able to pay multiple payees at
once. The feature Toolkits will be available to Starling business and sole trader accounts
as soon as possible. We will send you an update once this is available. In the meantime, you 
could try a feature called [Software 1] and [Software 2].  Please contact them for more 
information.
G acquired one of the two softwares  Software 1. Afterwards, Gs accountants asked it to 
contact Starling to request a BACS service user number in order to get the software up and 
running. But Starling said they didnt provide BACS numbers. This effectively meant that 
Software 1 couldnt be operated through Starling as G had intended. 
G said that it had moved from a previous software system to Software 1 on the basis of 
Starlings recommendation. It said this ended up costing in excess of £3,500 which it wanted 
Starling to reimburse.   
 
Starling said they understood why the message they sent in June might have led G to 
believe Software 1 would provide it with the ability to make multiple payments and they 
apologised if G was misled. But they said that after reviewing everything, they didnt feel able 
to uphold Gs complaint. G therefore referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought that Starling made it clear that the 
bank didnt yet have the facility to enable G to make payments in the way it had wanted. And 
they didnt think Starling had said that if G acquired the software this could be achieved. In 
any case, they said that before making any changes to its existing arrangements, it wasnt 
unreasonable for G to have ensured that the software it acquired would deliver what it had 
wanted.  
G didnt agree with investigator conclusions and has asked for its case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman 
Findings 
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 G says that it acted on a recommendation from Starling that didnt deliver what it had set out 
to achieve when it contacted the bank in June 2020. If, therefore I am to uphold Gs 
complaint, I have to be satisfied Starling made the recommendation G says they did, and G 
acted on the recommendation in circumstances where it was reasonable to do so.
I have carefully considered Starlings correspondence with G which I referred to above. 
I am satisfied Starling made it clear they did not yet have the facility to make multiple 
payments of the type G wanted to carry out. They confirmed this would become available in 
the future at which point G would be alerted. 
Had Starling left it at that there would have been little opportunity for confusion. But Starling 
didnt. They went to suggest that in the meantime G could try Software 1 and Software 2. So, 
I can see why this left open the possibility, which Starling acknowledged, for G being misled 
into thinking that by opting for one of the two softwares - Software 1, this would enable it to 
make multiple payments. 
But Im not persuaded Starlings message could reasonably be taken as a recommendation 
to acquire Software 1, let alone any promise the software would work. And I say that 
because what Starling said in their message was that G: could try (my emphasis) a feature 
called [Software 1 and Software 2]. And they went on to say G should contact the providers 
for more information. So, on balance, I am satisfied this fell short of a recommendation. 
I note when Mr D complained to Starling on behalf of G, he acknowledged he wasnt a party 
to any discussions with the providers of Software 1 before G acquired it. It seems all the 
arrangements were made by Gs accountants for which G was charged a fee. 
I do not have any details of the discussions if any that took place with the providers of 
Software 1 before G acquired it. But bearing in mind Starlings suggestion was G could try 
Software 1 and 2 they were not providing a guarantee of a successful operation.  For 
Software 1 to work it seems a BACS service user number was required. So, on balance I 
think before going through the expense of acquiring Software 1, reasonably Starling might 
first to have been asked whether the BACS service user number was something, they were 
able to provide. Unfortunately, it would seem that enquiry only came after the acquisition of 
Software 1.   
Whilst I anticipate this will come as disappointing news to Mr D on balance, I dont think 
Starling recommended Software 1 to G and therefore, I see no grounds on which I can fairly 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman