DRN-2141687
The complaint
Miss M complains that Globe Independent Financial Advisors Ltd gave her poor advice when 
she engaged the firm to help her get a buy to let mortgage. Miss M wants to be put back in 
the position she would have been in had she got good advice. 
What happened
In 2017, Miss M engaged Globe to source a mortgage for her on a buy to let property, which 
had previously been a local authority owned house. Globe eventually sourced a mortgage 
for her with a lender. The interest rate was fixed for five years with an interest rate at 3.99% 
and had an early repayment charge (ERC) if it was redeemed within that period. Miss M 
says that Globe assured her that it was the best product for her. But Miss M says that six 
months later she realised that the advice was misleading given the base rate, her financial 
position and her credit score. Miss M feels under pressure and trapped because of the high 
interest rate and exit fee.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that 
Globe had done anything wrong. Miss M disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M makes a complaint that a few months after she took out this mortgage, she did some 
research which told her that Globe could have sourced a different mortgage elsewhere with 
a keener interest rate that wouldnt have tied her in with such a high exit fee making it 
difficult for her to take advantage of keener rates elsewhere. Globe says that it sourced a 
mortgage using its software and got Miss M the most suitable deal for her from the only 
lender who was prepared to lend on the security of an ex local authority property.
Globe has provided their documentation to us to show why they recommended this 
mortgage which is set out in its letter of suitability of May 2017 and explains why it believes 
that this is the best lender and product for her. I note that Miss M was dealing with a number 
of complex matters at that time, including moving her home, porting her mortgage, letting out 
a property and trying to raise money to fund this all. Miss M was also recovering from an 
accident and the bereavement of a parent. She feels that she wasnt at her best and very 
reliant ion the advice she was getting. 
The problem I have with Miss Ms complaint is that Ive simply no evidence to support her 
view that Globe gave her poor advice. The only evidence I have is an undated email from an 
adviser saying that her repayments could be £300 to £400 lower depending on the valuation 
- from £750. That isnt very precise. The email doesnt let me know what the property is, 
what type of mortgage it was, whether residential or buy to let, what the term was, whether 
the adviser was aware of the fact that the property was ex local authority, what the amount 
borrowed was to be and what assumptions were made about the loan to value. Globe on the 
other hand has provided evidence that it used its processes to source the best interest rate 
given the circumstances and provided documentation in support. On that basis, although I 
appreciate that Miss M has genuine concerns and I understand that she was under a great 
deal of pressure at the time, I cant fairly say that Globe has done anything wrong and so I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman