DRN-4341716
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that his single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Euroins AD, 
didnt clearly set out that competitive mountain biking wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
What happened
When taking out the policy Mr P took out additional cover which added special sports table 
D cover. Mr Ps trip included him taking part in a multi-day competitive mountain biking 
event.
Whilst away and before he took part in the event, Mr P says he had another question about 
the policy and it was during this call that he was told that the policy didnt cover him for 
competitive mountain biking. Mr P is unhappy because the special sports table under the 
section of the policy entitled optional sports and activities cover says competitive cycling is 
covered under category D, which hed opted to include when buying the policy. 
Mr P says he didnt end up competing in the mountain biking event and returned home early 
as he wouldnt have been able to buy travel insurance to cover him after his trip had started. 
He says hes lost around £2,000 by not being able to take part in the event and rearranging 
his flights back to the UK. Mr P recalls only receiving a refund of the premium he paid for the 
policy from Euroins. 
Mr P complained to Euroins. He didnt receive a substantive reply to his complaint other than 
being told it wouldnt cover anything not set out in the policy wording. It acknowledged the 
delays in progressing his complaint and said it hadnt carried out a full investigation. It 
offered £50 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr P brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr P disagreed and requested 
an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Euroins has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed but, for the following reasons, I dont uphold his complaint. 
The optional sports and activities cover section, which Mr P bought as an add on to the 
policy, starts at page 10 and says:
Category A sports are automatically covered under your policy. Category B, C and D 
sports will be covered upon payment of an additional premium. 
Payment for additional categories includes coverage for all preceding categories (e.g. 
if you pay Category D you will be covered for A, B and C also)
The policy document then goes on to provide a table showing activities in alphabetical order, 
states whether these are included as category A, B, C or D and sets out any conditions of 
cover relating to each activity. 
Competitive cycling is listed as category D on the condition that theres no personal liability 
cover. 
Further down the list (but on the same page) is Mountain biking. Thats listed as category C 
and covered on the condition that competition/racing is excluded. 
Mr P says that competitive cycling isnt defined, which I agree with. However, I think the 
policy terms are reasonably clear. Under the policy Mr P bought, he was covered for 
competitive cycling. However, he was only covered for mountain biking so long as it didnt 
involve competition/racing. The policy doesnt say this exclusion is overridden by Mr P opting 
for category D cover and also being covered for (amongst activities) competitive cycling. 
In the context of bike riding, and the activities set out in the activities table in the policy, Im 
satisfied theres a distinction between cycling and cycle touring (covered as standard as 
category A), mountain biking (excluding competition/racing) and competition cycling. 
So, I dont think Euroins unreasonably concluded that Mr P wasnt covered for the mountain 
bike event he was due to take part in and telling him so when asked. And I think this was 
made reasonably clear in the policy terms and conditions. 
I dont know the basis on which Euroins refunded Mr P the premium paid for the policy. But 
Im not persuaded that this means Euroins accepted Mr Ps arguments. Mr P says he didnt 
receive any confirmation of the basis of the refund at the time.
Euroins also paid Mr P £50 to reflect delays in progressing his complaint and for not 
providing a substantive reply to his complaint. I accept that not receiving a substantive reply 
in a timely manner wouldve been frustrating for Mr P. I think the compensation paid by 
Euroins reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman