DRN-3886355
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) do not provide him 
with enough notice of the repayment amount that they will take via direct debit.
What happened
Mr G has an Amex credit card and he pays the balance each month by direct debit. He says 
that Amex routinely only provide less than three days notice of the direct debit amount, 
which is in contravention of the direct debit guarantee (DDG). He says this very short notice 
period makes it very difficult to ensure sufficient funds are available to pay the direct debit. 
Mr G made a complaint to Amex.
Amex did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said that his last six statements were produced 
on the 15th of each month, and his direct debit collects 14 days after the statement date. As 
such, the required minimum of 10 days' notice has been given. They said they cant be held 
responsible for the postal service and their delays. They also said he has online access, and 
he can view this information via their website or application (app). 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He said he is not looking for a financial remedy. 
He would rather we instruct Amex that they must start meeting the terms of the DDG for all 
customers either by improving their statement delivery times or by moving the statement 
direct debit dates to be much closer to the statement due date.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said the DDG is there to protect 
consumers against an error in the payment of a direct debit. It says a business should notify 
consumers (normally 10 working days) in advance of the account being debited. But it 
doesnt stipulate how the notification should be given and Amex says he has online access 
where he can view the information at any time. 
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the DDG uses wording which says they will notify (him) in advance of his 
account being debited. He suspects that Amex delays posting statements for some time 
after they are produced and their responsibility would be to use a suitably rapid postal 
delivery company.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their credit card procedures including who they use to deliver correspondence including 
statements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Amex to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered the wording that Mr G has highlighted on the DDG. The wording says If 
there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency of your Direct Debit the organisation 
will notify you (normally 10 working days) in advance of your account being debited or as 
otherwise agreed. As the last words are or as otherwise agreed, then Im not persuaded 
that the normal 10 working days notice would be applicable if Amex had made Mr G aware 
of a different timeframe for changes of the amount being debited and he agreed to it.
I had a look on Amexs website and found a paper based direct debit form. This uses the 
wording Please tick your preferred Direct Debit option. This will be taken on or around 18 
days from your statement date each month as communicated on your monthly statement. 
For the payment in full option, it says Settle my balance in full every month by Direct Debit. 
This will be taken on or around 14 days from your statement date each month, as 
communicated on your monthly statement. 
So it does appear that Amex currently has an agreement with their customers that the direct 
debit would be taken out of their account on or around 14 days from their statement date 
each month if they were paying in full as communicated on their monthly statement. Amex 
say the reason for this is so, in the event of an issue collecting the direct debit, they have the 
opportunity to inform their customer of this so that they can try to make arrangements and 
prevent the account going overdue (and potentially impacting their credit file). And this is the 
reason that Amex dont move the statement direct debit dates to be much closer to the 
statement due date as Mr G wants them to do. So Im satisfied that this is reasonable for 
Amex to do this.
But I was unsure of how Mr G set up his direct debit as Amex show three ways on their 
website to set up a direct debit. So I asked Amex if either they had a copy of the original 
direct debit instruction or if the other methods would clearly set out how and when the direct 
debits were taken. Amex sent me a copy of the original direct debit form signed by Mr G. 
Due to either the time thats passed, or how it was scanned onto their system, some of the 
text on the form is unreadable. And Im not persuaded that the scan shows all of the full form 
as the top of the page appears to be missing. But as a minimum, the bottom of the page 
shows that under the DDG for his account that If the amounts to be paid or the payment 
date changes, American Express Services Europe Limited will notify you five working days in 
advance of your Account being debited or as otherwise agreed. The form is signed by Mr G 
and it appears it was dated 25 April 2008. So Im not persuaded that Amex have breached 
the DDG here as he had an agreement with them in 2008.
When Mr G set up the direct debit originally, he agreed that if the amount to be paid 
changed, that Amex would provide notice five working days in advance of them collecting 
the payment. While I acknowledge that the DDG has changed since then, so has the 
wording on Amexs paper direct debit form. I say this as if Mr G was setting up a direct debit 
with Amex now (as hes quoting the DDG wording now), the paper direct debit form now is 
clear that the funds would be taken on or around 14 days from your statement date each 
month, as communicated on your monthly statement, which Mr G would need to agree to in 
order to set up the direct debit.
I know that Mr G has commented on the number of working days left before his direct debit 
is due, when he receives his statement, and this is less than five working days. But his 
statements are produced on 15th of the month. Amex have told us that once these are 
produced they are sent out to cardmembers, so Im satisfied they have given the notice 
which was agreed as I cant hold Amex responsible for how long the postal system would 
take to deliver his statements and Ive already explained that it is outside of my remit to ask 
them to use a delivery partner which could deliver his statements faster. Amex have told us that they also send Mr G an email five days prior to the direct debit being 
collected which shows a payment due and provides him with a link to his statement. While I 
understand that Mr G does not want to remember online log in details, he is registered for 
online access. I asked Amex if his statement is still available to view online even if he is set 
up for paper statements. Amex confirmed that Mr Gs statements would appear on his online 
account and on their application (app), regardless of whether Mr G was enrolled for 
paperless statements or not. They confirmed that his statements are typically available 
immediately, but they can sometimes take 24 hours to appear. So as Mr G is registered for 
online access, Im satisfied that he is notified well in advance through his online statements  
that he has access to, of the amount that would be collected by direct debit. 
If the current direct debit arrangement does not suit Mr G, he may wish to cancel the direct 
debit and make a manual payment to clear his outstanding balance prior to the payment due 
date. I say this as this will give him an extra 10-11 days to make a payment (based on his 
October 2022 statement). He should refer to his statement to see if another method would 
be more suitable and he should check with Amex if he needs to allow any time for any 
manual payments to be processed to reach his Amex account in time, to avoid any late 
payments and associated fees. But it follows I dont require Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman