DRN-2274799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Theyre unhappy with 
Avivas decision to decline a critical illness claim made by Mrs K. 
For ease of reference, my decision will mainly refer to Mrs K. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mr and Mrs K set up a life and critical illness policy in 2005. It provided £200,000 of cover for 
Mrs K over a 15-year term. 
In February 2020 Mrs K was unfortunately diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and so made 
a critical illness claim under the policy. As part of Avivas consideration of the claim, they 
contacted Mrs Ks consultant rheumatologist  seeking clarification on the severity of the 
condition. After receiving this, they subsequently declined the claim and so Mrs K 
complained.
Aviva responded to the complaint but they didnt change their position. They said, while it is 
clear a definite diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis has been made, Mrs Ks condition didnt 
meet two of the criteria required under the policy definition. Aviva acknowledged that Mrs K 
was taking medication to slow the development of the condition. But they explained that the 
policy definition for rheumatoid arthritis is severity based, which meant the definition is met 
when the condition has progressed to the point in which treatment is not as effective at 
controlling the disease. Aviva did however apologise for upset caused by the delay in 
considering the claim and awarded £200 compensation to recognise this.
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think Aviva had to do 
anything further. She thought the claim had been fairly declined as Mrs Ks condition hadnt 
met the rheumatoid arthritis policy definition. And although she noted the concerns raised by 
Mrs K and her consultant about the restrictive nature of the policy criteria, as it would only be 
met by those with advanced rheumatoid arthritis, she explained insurance companies  like 
Aviva  can decide on what terms they are willing to offer cover. Our investigator also 
thought the £200 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to reassure Mrs K that I dont underestimate the impact the rheumatoid arthritis 
has had on her. But what I must consider here is whether Aviva has acted fairly, and in line 
with the terms of her policy, when declining the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs K is 
hoping for but, having done so, I think they have and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy terms  which Mrs K agreed to  say:
What you are covered for
Benefit
We will pay the benefit to youif, during the period of your membership, either 
of the following happens:
a member suffers or undergoes a critical illness;
Critical illness(es) is defined in the policy terms as:
The following illnesses and operations are the critical illnesses covered under your 
membership. References in this handbook relate to each illness or operation 
separately, not all of them together.
Therefore, for Mrs Ks condition to be covered, it needs to meet the critical illness as 
described in the policy terms. This defines chronic rheumatoid arthritis as:
Confirmation by a consultant rheumatologist of a definite diagnosis of rheumatoid 
arthritis, which satisfied all of the following criteria.
there must be morning stiffness in the affected joints of at least one hours 
duration
there must be arthritis of at least three joint groups with soft tissue swelling of 
fluid observed by a physician
the arthritis must involve at least on of the following sites:
wrists or ankles
hands and fingers
feet and toes
there must be symmetrical arthritis
there must be subcutaneous nodules
there must be radiographic changes typical of rheumatoid arthritis.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs K has been diagnosed, by a consultant rheumatologist, to have 
rheumatoid arthritis. The issue here however is that Mrs Ks consultant confirmed to Aviva at 
the time of the claim that her condition hadnt progressed to the point in which there were 
subcutaneous nodules or radiographic changes (typical of rheumatoid arthritis)  as these 
wouldnt be expected in the early stages of the condition.
As Mrs Ks condition hasnt met all the criteria under the policy definition of rheumatoid 
arthritis, Im satisfied Aviva declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
I understand however that Mrs K feels Avivas definition of rheumatoid arthritis is 
unreasonable as the requirement for subcutaneous nodules and radiographic changes are 
found in the later stages of the condition. And, to support her position, Mrs K has provided a 
statement from her consultant that says:the definition of rheumatoid arthritis used in the policy is outdated and extremely 
restrictive, and would exclude the vast majority of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, 
except for those with advanced disease.
Ive taken this into careful consideration but, while I appreciate Mrs Ks frustration with the 
policy definition, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that her policy only pays out 
when an insured event happens. And that Aviva can decide on what basis they are prepared 
to offer cover (thereby the level of risk they are willing to accept). So, although Im 
sympathetic to Mrs Ks situation, I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably by deciding the 
criteria  the severity of the condition  that must be met for a rheumatoid arthritis claim to 
be paid. 
Mrs K has also further explained that she is taking medication to prevent her condition from 
progressing to the level set out in Avivas policy definition. And that to otherwise allow the 
condition to progress to this point would be negligent on her part. This therefore makes it 
harder for a claim to be successful  particularly as the policy excludes cover in instances of 
a failure to follow medical advice. 
I appreciate Mrs K feels Aviva has deliberately designed the policy, and the relevant criteria 
for her condition, to make it difficult for a claim to be paid. But I dont think it is unreasonable 
for Aviva to expect a policyholder from seeking and following medical advice (its in their 
interests to do so). And, critical illness cover by nature means the condition will be severe. 
But while it is fortunate that Mrs Ks condition hasnt yet progressed to the latter stages, it 
means she didnt meet the policy definition for a claim to be paid. It follows that I dont think 
Aviva has unfairly declined the claim. 
Im aware Mrs Ks policy has since ended and so cover has stopped being provided. 
Because of this, Mrs K is unable to make a further claim under the policy should her 
condition worsen. This unfortunately however isnt something that I consider Aviva can be 
held responsible for. Im satisfied they provided the cover during the agreed 15-year term. 
On a final note, Ive also considered whether the £200 compensation is fair. Having done so, 
I think it is a reasonable amount to recognise the trouble and upset caused by the delay in 
considering the claim. Im therefore not increasing it further. If it hasnt yet been paid then Mr and Mrs K should contact Aviva directly to arrange this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman