DRN-2859369
The complaint
Mrs L and Mrs J (Mrs Ls mother) complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited mis-sold a life and critical illness term policy in 2004.
What happened
Mrs L had previously been the life assured on a 10-year savings policy that matured in 
March 2004. This policy had been paid for by one of her parents.
In the weeks before the 10-years savings plan matured, Royal London visited Mrs Js home 
where Mrs L was living at the time. After completing a factfind Royal London recommended 
a life and critical illness term cover policy for 20 years for Mrs L. The initial sum assured was 
£48,756. The premium of £20.00 per month was fixed for the first five years but could be 
reviewed after that. Premiums and the sum assured have since increased.
Mrs L says the policy was taken out by her mother as a savings plan to mature when Mrs L 
reached age 40. She says Mrs J passed her the policy details on her birthday last year. 
When she tried to claim the proceeds, she was told the policy was a protection plan and it 
had no value. Mrs J and Mrs L complained to Royal London that the policy had been mis-
sold as it shouldve been a savings plan.
Royal London provided a final response to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the 
life and critical illness proposal form had been signed by Mrs L and confirmed she had 
provided all the material facts. Royal London said the illustration provided warned there was 
no surrender value and said they had sent a cancellation notice to Mrs L when the policy 
was proposed.
Mrs L and Mrs J werent happy with the response from Royal London and brought their 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and thought that Royal 
London hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs L and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide 
their complaint. Mrs L re-affirmed she hadnt been present at the meetings in 2004 and that it 
was her mother Mrs J who had taken out the policy and signed the application form.
The complaint was passed to me to consider, but before I looked into matters I requested 
further details from Royal London about their sales process. Royal London carried out 
another search of the records and were able to provide point of sale documents, including a 
factfind and a copy of a suitability letter they sent to Mrs L in February 2004. These 
documents were sent to Mrs L and Mrs J for further comment. Mrs L says that she had no 
need to consider critical illness and life cover as she had no debts or dependents. She re-
affirmed shed never met with Royal London and that Mrs J signed the application form 
believing she was taking out a savings plan like the plan that matured in 2004.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L and Mrs J have provided an account of what happened at the time the protection 
policy was put in place. However, this version of events differs in many ways to the events 
described by Royal London. When Im presented different accounts of events, I review all 
the evidence and comments provided and I make my decision based on what I think most 
likely happened at the time. In this case, although Im sure Mrs L and Mrs J will be 
disappointed, Im not persuaded Royal London did anything wrong. I will now explain why.
Mrs L says she wasnt at the meetings when the factfind and application forms were 
completed. And Mrs J says it was she who signed application form. However, the factfind 
provided by Royal London, along with the details contained within the application form, 
contain a significant amount of personal information about Mrs L. For example, there is a 
passport number, a national insurance number, salary and employment details, details of her 
bank account and a breakdown of income and expenditure. Therefore, Im persuaded Mrs L 
is likely to have provided this information at the time and that its likely she was involved in 
the sales process. Ive seen there is an error with Mrs Ls date of birth on the application 
form and factfind. I consider its most likely an error made by the advisor at the time but 
doesnt impact on the crux of the complaint that the policy was mis-sold.
The application form records the policy was set-up on an own life basis. That means it was 
taken out by Mrs L and she owned the policy. Theres nothing to suggest Mrs J took out the 
policy for the benefit of Mrs L. Ive seen the premiums were paid from a third-party account, 
likely to be Mrs Js account with her husband. This was recorded in the point of sale 
documents, but I dont consider this persuades me Mrs J took out the policy.
The factfind records Mrs L had no dependents at the time and that she didnt intend moving 
soon. It says she felt critical illness protection was important as she had no protection on ill 
health. The factfind also recorded that Mrs L felt able to make her own financial decisions 
without her parents.
I acknowledge Mrs Ls comment that she didnt need protection because she had no debt or 
dependents at the time. However, the policy provided critical illness cover which is payable 
to Mrs L if she suffers serious illness. This benefit can be used to adapt her lifestyle if she 
suffered a critical illness, so its not necessarily only suitable if she had dependents or debt. 
Ive noted the policy also had life cover attached. I dont consider there was necessarily a 
need for stand-alone life cover because there was no debt nor dependents. However, I dont 
consider the additional life cover is unsuitable as it is often cost-effective to include life cover 
in a combined policy like this. So, taking all this into account, I dont consider the 
recommendation made by Royal London was unsuitable for Mrs L.
Ive considered Mrs Ls comments that she didnt sign the application form, alongside Mrs Js 
comment that it was she who signed the form. Its quite challenging to reconcile these 
comments when I consider the evidence Royal London provided. I cant be certain whos 
signature is on the application form. And because the signature was 17 years ago, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to speculate on this matter. However, there 
were opportunities for Mrs L to seek clarity in relation to the policy type. For example, Ive 
seen that Royal London wrote to Mrs L on 24 February 2004 and asked that she check the 
details of the policy proposed. Of course, I cant be certain that Mrs L saw this letter, but I 
consider it likely it was sent. Its likely that Royal London also sent a cancellation letter 
around the same time. So, Im satisfied Royal London took reasonable steps to ensure Mrs L 
was aware of what the policy was for, what the premiums were and that there was no value 
to it. These letters are in place to ensure policyholders are certain they want the policy 
provided, and I consider it was reasonable for Royal London to conclude that because they 
had no response, Mrs L was happy with the policy applied for.I consider that its likely Mrs L was involved in the sales process and this is enough to 
persuade me she was likely aware of the policy. Im satisfied Royal London provided details 
of the policy at the point of sale. They followed this up with a letter to Mrs L within a few days 
explaining why the policy had been recommended and included more information about 
what benefits the policy had. A further cancellation letter was likely sent to Mrs L shortly after 
the application had been accepted. 
I empathise with Mrs L, and indeed Mrs J, that the policy didnt provide the savings benefits 
they thought it might. However, on the balance of probability Ive decided that Royal London 
acted reasonably and didnt mis-sell the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman