DRN-4441925
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs V complain that Home in One Financial Services Limited (Home in One), failed 
to treat them fairly when it acted as the broker when arranging a mortgage for their new 
home.
What happened
This complaint has been ongoing for some time and the facts are well known to both Mr L 
and Mrs V as well as Home in One, so Ive only summarised the key details below.
Mr L and Mrs V asked Home in One to help them with their mortgage needs when they were 
moving home. They had an existing mortgage with their current lender, (Lender A) and 
wanted to port this mortgage as well as take out some additional borrowing to help complete 
the purchase of the new property. An application was first made in September 2021. This 
was for a loan amount of £449,000 with a property purchase price of £625,000. An offer was 
issued by Lender A in October 2021 and was valid until 25 April 2022.
Unfortunately the property Mr L and Mrs V had hoped to purchase did not progress as 
expected, this meant they needed to find a new property. In March 2022, Mr L and Mrs V 
spoke with Home in One about their options and affordability for a new property theyd found 
for a higher purchase price of £650,000. 
Home in One said Lender A was no longer an option as it couldnt lend what was needed. It 
suggested a new application with Lender B. Mr L and Mrs V accepted this advice and paid a 
valuation fee for the application with Lender B. However, they were concerned that Home in 
One had done everything it should have after previous concerns about the process and 
questions being answered, so they contacted Lender A directly to ask whether it could 
provide the borrowing required for the new property. 
Lender A said it was happy to transfer the original offer it made to the new property and it 
reissued the mortgage offer for £449,000 with the amended property details. 
When Mr L and Mrs V completed on their new property, there was a shortfall on the total 
amount needed and they had to borrow money from family at short notice to ensure the 
transaction could be completed. They feel Home in One failed to provide the correct advice 
on the moving costs and caused this issue.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Home in One needed to do 
anything else. He didnt think the broker was unprofessional in their communication, nor did 
he believe theyd done anything wrong when they made the recommendation they did. He 
felt there were other parties to the chain that should have reasonably informed Mr L and 
Mrs V of the moving costs. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say that any issues on 
the day of completion with regards to this were the responsibility of Home in One.
Mr L and Mrs V disagreed with the investigator and they provided more explanation about 
why they dont feel the information put forward by Home in One was a true reflection of what 
was said to them at the time. They feel had it not been for their intervention and speaking to 
Lender A directly they would have paid an early repayment charge (ERC) on their previous 
mortgage and have lost out by paying the valuation fee to Lender B. 
Our investigator asked Home in One if it would consider making an offer to bring this 
complaint to a close. It offered to make a payment of £175 as a goodwill gesture as a 
resolution for the complaint. It said this was to cover the valuation fee that it believed to be 
£95 and £80 for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr L and Mrs V didnt accept this. The valuation fee paid was £100 plus a £3.99 fee for 
making the payment. The offer in their mind demonstrates the failings experienced 
throughout the mortgage process with Home in One with a lack of attention to detail and 
incorrect information being provided.  On this basis they asked that the complaint be referred 
for decision.   
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 November 2023. I explained I was 
planning on upholding the complaint and said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im planning on upholding this complaint in part and asking Home in One to increase the 
offer it has made to put things right. Ill explain why I think there has been occasions when it 
has failed to do what Id expect and why I think it is fair that it increases the award offered.
Mr L and Mrs Vs complaint has a number of core components, the general service received 
from Home in One, whether it acted fairly when making a recommendation to make a new 
application to Lender B and whether it provided accurate information about the moving 
costs. Ill deal with each of these complaints in turn.
The service and information received.
Mr L and Mrs V have highlighted concerns they had with Home in One from the initial 
application stage. At this point Home in One provided illustrations for different mortgage 
options which included staying with Lender A and other options which meant moving to 
Lender B. During this process, Mr L asked specific questions about the cost and benefit of 
staying with Lender A over moving to Lender B. I dont think these questions, from the 
information provided, were fully answered. And while Mr L and Mrs V decided to make an 
application with Lender A and avoid the ERC which would have been charged had they 
moved, I think clearer information could have been provided as requested.
It is understandable why a lack of information at the start of this process left Mr L and Mrs V 
with concerns about the service they were receiving. This concern may well have benefited 
them in the long run with the actions taken to clarify the position of Lender A when the 
property changed, but I dont think this should take away from the fact that Home in One 
failed to answer their specific questions. 
Mr L and Mrs V have also highlighted concerns about the general communication of the 
broker and questioned whether this was professional. I take on board their thoughts on this 
and whether it was as professional in tone and language as theyd have preferred. But on 
the whole, I dont think it would be fair to say there was a failing on this point.
The advice to move to Lender B.
There has been a great deal of back and forth on this point with discussion over why or 
whether, Home in One did speak with Lender A about the transfer of the mortgage offer to the new property.  I mean no discourtesy when I dont go into all of the detail here. While I 
have considered everything that has been provided, Ive focused on what I believe the crux 
of this complaint point to be. This is, did Home in One act fairly and reasonably when relying 
on the information it did about the prospect of the mortgage offer with Lender A being 
transferable. 
When Home in One first considered Mr L and Mrs Vs options when they looked to change 
properties, they put their details into Lender As affordability calculator. Based on this they 
told Mr L and Mrs V that the previous mortgage offer would not be an option. The total 
borrowing was showing as lower than before and so it said Mr L and Mrs V would need to 
consider making up any shortfall with their savings. I dont think Home in One was wrong 
when it said this  the affordability calculator didnt support that Lender A would provide the 
same amount of borrowing as before. So it was correct to inform Mr L and Mrs V of this.
But it hadnt asked Lender A whether the mortgage offer could be transferred and if this 
lower borrowing amount would reduce the mortgage offer. 
The implications of Lender A not being able to provide the borrowing at the previous rate 
meant, if Mr L and Mrs V moved to a new lender, theyd incur an ERC. And as their existing 
mortgage was only a year into a five-year fixed rate, this would have been around £6000. It 
also meant a fee might be charged by Home in One when it wouldnt be the case if the 
application which was successful was for the port with additional borrowing  as eventually 
happened. 
Although no fee was charged by Home in One, it still received a commission payment from 
Lender A for arranging the mortgage. So it was being paid for its services and the advice 
provided. And while I agree it didnt do anything wrong when checking with the affordability 
calculator as the starting point as to whether the offer could be moved in principle, I think it 
could have done more to confirm this was the case.
Home in One feels that Lender A may have gone outside of its normal process or made an 
exception for Mr L and Mrs V when they called to ask whether the mortgage offer could be 
moved to the new property. But even if it did, had Home in One contacted it and asked the 
same questions, the end result would have likely been the same. This might have resolved 
any questions about Mr Ls income and car allowances which appear to have caused some 
confusion. I dont think it is an unreasonable expectation that a conversation with Lender A 
could have taken place to ask whether the offer could be moved to the new property. Instead 
it relied on the affordability calculator decision only and made an assumption based on this.   
The advice to progress with Lender B was not unsuitable based on the information Home in 
One had  but as Ive explained above, I think they could have done more to confirm with 
Lender A it wasnt an option. 
As Mr L spoke with Lender A soon after the advice had been given to apply to Lender B, he 
became aware it was possible to move the mortgage offer to the new property. This meant 
the ERC would not be applicable, but a valuation fee had been paid to Lender B and I think it 
is fair that this is refunded. The mortgage details from Lender B confirm this fee was £100 
and Mr L has said there was also a £3.99 transaction fee paid with this which should be 
refunded too.
The moving costs.
I appreciate Mr L and Mrs V moving day experience was more stressful than it should have 
been when it became apparent at the last hour that they were short by around £7000 for the 
completion. This would have clearly been a distressing experience but I dont think it would be fair to say Home in One was responsible for this.
Mr L has explained that his solicitor was chasing for documents to confirm what costs 
needed paying by Mr L and Mrs V with the move. And conversations hed had with Home in 
One and his broker led him to believe the borrowing they had in place could result in money 
coming back from the purchase over there being a shortfall. As Mr L and Mrs V had regularly 
overpaid their mortgage, despite moving to a more expensive property with the same level of 
borrowing as secured for the cheaper one, I can see why there was some confusion around 
the outstanding balance. But I think the conveyancing process should have confirmed this.
Although some of the costs associated with Home in One may not have been known by the 
solicitor completing the conveyance, these would have been minimal compared to what it 
would have been able to confirm itself or from Lender A. Lender A would need to have 
provided the redemption balance for the existing mortgage as this would be repaid before 
the loan is redrawn against the new property. The loan amount here would be inline with the 
mortgage offer which was issued on 7 April 2022 to Mr L and Mrs V. The equity from the 
sale, stamp duty and solicitors fees are all things it would have been aware of and the only 
unknown would have been the estate agent fees. And I think had these known costs been 
considered, it would have been apparent there was a potential shortfall, even if the exact 
amount was not clear. 
With this in mind, even if Mr L was led to believe by Home in One that he might not need to 
use any of his savings to complete the purchase, I cant say it is responsible for the shortfall 
not being known on the day of completion. 
Overall though I do think Home in One could have been clearer on its communication with 
Mr L and Mrs V. It has caused inconvenience and distress when it failed to answer questions 
raised. The process of arranging a mortgage will always be stressful due to the nature and 
implications of it and the purchase, but I do think this inconvenience was added to by the 
actions of Home in One. It is right the inconvenience above what would normally be 
expected is recognised.
I think it could have confirmed with Lender A in more detail that the change of security wasnt 
an option over using the generic affordability calculator.  When it failed to do this it meant 
Mr L and Mrs V paid an additional valuation fee and had it not been for Mr L speaking 
directly with Lender A, their out-of-pocket expenses could have been even greater.
To put things right, Home in One should refund the valuation fee paid to Lender B, including 
any transaction charges applied. This payment should be made with 8% simple interest 
added from the date the valuation fee was paid, until the date the refund is made.
It should also pay Mr L and Mrs V £150 for the communication failings during the process.
Home in One responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr L and Mrs V responded to say they accepted the decision as a way to move forward and 
resolve this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, copied 
above. Putting things right
Home in One must do the following to put things right.
Refund the valuation fee paid by Mr L and Mrs V to Lender B, including any transaction 
charges applied. This payment should be made with 8% simple interest added from the date 
the valuation fee was paid, until the date the refund is made.
It should also pay Mr L and Mrs V £150 for the communication failings during the process.
 My final decision
I uphold Mr L and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman