DRN-3885746
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (West Bay) 
handled a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering her car. Her policy was taken 
out through an insurance broker whose service Mrs M has also complained about. 
This complaint will only consider Mrs Ms complaint against West Bay.
In March 2022, Mrs Ms car was damaged when she collided with an object in the road. She 
reported the incident to the police and then she arranged for her car to be recovered to a 
nearby garage, wholl Ill refer to as T. 
Mrs M then called West Bay and notified it of the collision. 
West Bay sent Mrs M a series of text messages, including one telling her she wouldnt get a 
courtesy car because shed chosen to have her car repaired by a non-approved repairer.
West Bay also says it sent Mrs M a text message telling her it would limit its labour costs to 
£27.50 per hour as she had chosen her own garage to have repairs done. Mrs M says she 
didnt receive this text, but did get the earlier one about the courtesy car, and a later one 
about telling her some information she needed to pass on to T. 
West Bay say it also wrote to Mrs M telling her about its maximum labour rate. Mrs M denies 
receiving this letter.
Mrs M asked West Bay by post about what approved repairers she could use, but West Bay 
didnt respond.
There was a delay getting the work started. T told Mrs M that it was discussing the costs of 
the repair with West Bay.
About three weeks after the collision, work still hadnt started. Mrs M was then told by T that 
she had to pay £900 of the repair costs, plus her excess of £125. Mrs M wasnt happy about 
this but agreed to pay so that she could get her car back.
She complained to West Bay about the delay getting repairs started, the lack of a courtesy 
car and the extra cost she had to pay.
West Bay didnt respond to Mrs M within eight weeks, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. She asks for a refund of the £900 she paid to T for the repairs. She also asks for 
compensation for her inconvenience during the period she didnt have her car, about five 
weeks in total. 
West Bay later responded. It said itd told Mrs M that when shed chosen her own repairer to 
carry out the repairs, itd sent her messages saying it wouldnt provide her with a courtesy 
car. It also said it told her that the most it would pay for labour costs was £27.50 per hour. It 
said it didnt agree with Mrs Ms points, but it did agree itd provided some poor service by 
not authorising the repairs quickly enough. It offered Mrs M £70 compensation for this.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that Mrs M had 
been sent text messages telling her about the courtesy car and the labour rate, as well as a 
letter. She also said she thought Mrs M had enough opportunity to contact West Bay and 
ask to change the repairer to one of its recommended ones. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the view. She asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Labour rate & claim delay
From the evidence I have, the additional £900 paid by Mrs M was to cover the difference in 
labour rate being charged by T over what West Bay say it was prepared to pay. West Bay 
says it told Mrs M by text message, and then by letter, that the most it would pay was £27.50 
per hour, and I can see from the file that Ts labour costs were chargeable at £90 per hour.
Mrs M denies receiving both the text message about this labour rate and the letter which 
West Bay says was sent a few days later. Its considered good practice to use at least two 
different methods to tell customers about important matters such as this.
The text message about it was sent as part of a series of messages just after shed 
contacted West Bay to tell it about her collision. Mrs M has said she did receive text 
messages sent either side of this particular one. I note that she mentions these messages 
were sent to her family members phone rather than hers.
Mrs M also comments about the integrity of West Bays claims handlers when she mentions 
this text message, but she doesnt provide evidence for this. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that both methods used by West Bay failed to arrive and I am 
persuaded by West Bays evidence that it did reasonably send the communications about 
the labour rate. I cant reasonably hold West Bay responsible for it not being delivered. 
But the content of the text message itself needs closer examination. 
As you are using your own garage for repairs, under the terms of your policy we are 
only about to authorise a labour rate up to £27.50 an hour and any additional labour 
charge above this amount will be your liability
West Bays wording includes a phrase saying:
We will not pay more than the cost of repairs had the work been undertaken by our 
approved repairers
Its common for insurance companies to use an approved repairer network because it helps 
them control costs in the claims process. And I think its fair of West Bay to use a restriction 
like this.
But when customers use other repairers outside of the network, I think its reasonable to 
expect them to be told that different conditions would apply to their claim at the earliest opportunity.
Ive said above that I think West Bay did, on balance, provide Mrs M with the information 
about its limit by text message and letter. But I think West Bay should also have told her 
about it during her initial call to it making the claim. West Bay had the opportunity to deal 
with this issue immediately because her car was in the process of being recovered to T, and 
redirecting it to an approved repairer would have been simpler around this time.
So, while I think its reasonable for West Bay to apply a term like this into Mrs Ms policy, and 
it reasonably notified her about it in two different ways, I think West Bay should have told her 
about it during the claims call. And at the same time it should also have told her about it not 
providing her with a courtesy car.
I can see that Mrs M asked West Bay by letter for details of its approved repairers while her 
car was waiting for repairs to begin, so she was clearly willing to consider other options for 
repairing her car. Im unsure why Mrs M didnt call West Bay about this as I would think it 
would have resolved the query faster.
Im not going to ask West Bay to refund the £900 paid by Mrs M because I think its policy 
wording reasonably allows it, and I think it did tell Mrs M about it. But I think its service during 
the claim could have been much better. Its failure to tell her early in the process about the 
implications of her choice of repairer led to a great deal of frustration and inconvenience. 
Whilst I think Mrs M could have helped understand and speed up the process by calling 
West Bay and discussing the matter over the phone, I think West Bay should pay Mrs M 
£150 for her distress. 
Because West Bay caused the delay, I also think its reasonable to expect it to pay for some 
of Mrs Ms inconvenience. West Bay has already offered Mrs M £70 compensation for this 
delay, and I think this is sufficient. So Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Courtesy Car
West Bays policy includes a provision for a courtesy car. 
Courtesy car
A small class "A" vehicle provided by the Insurers approved repairer on a voluntary 
basis for the duration of an authorised repair.
Mrs M has said she was told that she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car in a text message 
from West Bay. 
Again, Im unsure why Mrs M didnt call West Bay about this because she says the courtesy 
car was very important to her.
It seems to me that West Bay has complied with its terms and conditions here, so Im not 
intending to ask it to do more.
Responses to my provisional decision
West Bay responded and said it informed Mrs M about the limit on the labour rate by two 
different methods, which it said is normally acceptable to this service. 
Mrs M also responded and again denied receiving any communications from West Bay about the limit on the labour rate. She explained the difficulties she has with using more 
modern technology. 
Mrs M also said her broker has commented that it thinks West Bays hourly rate is too low for 
the area she lives in. Mrs M has said the costs of making the claim are upwards of £1,100 
plus ongoing costs because of West Bays lack of concern for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mrs Ms comments carefully and I understand her frustration with the service shes 
had. Its my role to look at West Bays actions and assess whether they are fair and 
reasonable. Ive said above that I think West Bay should reasonably have told Mrs M about 
the limit to the labour rate when she called it to make the claim. This would seem to me to 
have been the most opportune time to tell her about it, and while I agree that using two 
different methods of communication with Mrs M does follow best practise, I think West Bay 
should have done more on this occasion.
With regard to the limit on the labour rate, I can see that Mrs Ms broker has said it thinks the 
rate for the particular location should be set higher. Its not for me to comment on the validity 
of this because insurers like West Bay have large buying power and may have negotiated 
special rates with certain approved repairers. Ive said above that I think West Bay did 
reasonably inform Mrs M about this, so I think its fair of West Bay to be able to rely on this 
limit and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
At the heart of Mrs Ms complaint is the fact that the repairer she used charged more per 
hour than West Bay were willing to pay under its policy. Ive said above that I think its fair of 
West Bay to limit this amount, and I think it reasonably told Mrs M about it. 
I know Mrs M tried to discuss the choice of repairer with West Bay and she has explained to 
this service why she chose to correspond by letter rather than by phone or another method, 
but I dont think its fair to say West Bay is responsible for Mrs Ms choice in this.
Taking everything into account, I think West Bay should pay £150 compensation for the poor 
service and delays it caused, plus an additional £70 for her inconvenience. But Im not going 
to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mrs M:
£150 for her distress from its poor claims handling
£70 for her inconvenience from the claims delay. 
West Bay Insurance Plc must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman