DRN-2217138
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited refused a claim on his motor 
insurance policy and asked him to repay its cost for dealing with the claim.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
Background
Mr Ms car was stolen and he claimed on his policy. Admiral declined to pay Mr Ms claim 
because it said he wasn't covered at the time of the theft. It also said it believed hed 
deliberately misrepresented his circumstances in order for Admiral to pay the claim. And as 
such it said Mr M would have to reimburse it for the costs, of £784, it had incurred because 
of the claim.
Mr M didn't think Admiral had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 September 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
Was it fair for Admiral to decline to pay Mr Ms claim?
Mr Ms policy does cover him for business use but specifically excludes using his car to 
make deliveries. At the time his car was stolen Mr M, who works in a food takeaway shop, 
had just made a delivery. So he was using his car to make a delivery and as such wasn't 
covered by the policy. Mr Ms explained that his job didnt involve deliveries and that this was 
a one off. But I don't think that means the policy should cover him. Mr M told us that he 
knew his policy didn't cover him for deliveries. In other words he drove his car to make a 
delivery in the knowledge that his policy didn't cover him for that purpose. And while doing 
so his car was stolen. But as his policy simply doesn't cover him to make deliveries at any 
time, the fact that this was a one off occasion doesn't mean that the claim should be 
covered. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline to pay Mr Ms claim.
Is it fair for Admiral to seek to recover its claim costs from Mr M?
When Mr M first reported the theft to Admiral he told it hed been using his car for a business 
meeting. But his version of events then changed over time. He later said hed gone to see a 
customer that had complained and taken the food as compensation.
The police who investigated the theft said Mr M had told them he was a delivery driver and 
he'd just made a delivery at the time and the car was stolen from him at knifepoint. Admiral 
appointed independent investigators to look into Mr Ms complaint. Mr M told the 
investigators that the customer had complained about their delivery being delayed so Mr M 
had delivered the food himself. The independent investigators spoke with the takeaway 
customer concerned. She said she'd only made one call to the takeaway and hadn't made a 
call to complain about delay. So the information that Mr M gave Admiral isn't supported by 
the evidence.
Also, as I've said above, Mr M told us that although his policy covered him for business use, 
he knew it didn't cover him to make deliveries. In other words he drove his car knowing he 
wouldn't be covered. But when he told Admiral about the claim he didn't tell it he was making 
a delivery at the time. If hed done so its likely Admiral would have told him he wasn't 
covered for the claim and it would have closed it shortly after. But because Mr M didn't give 
Admiral the full details of what had happened it provided Mr M with a hire car for three 
weeks. And Ive seen that it paid over £409 to pay for that hire car. Thats not an amount it 
would have had to pay if Mr M had been clear with Admiral about the circumstances of the 
complaint from the outset.
Further, as Admiral had concerns that Mr Ms version of events wasn't accurate, it appointed 
independent investigators to look into the matter. And those investigators charged Admiral 
for their services. That wouldn't have been necessary if Mr M had been clear with Admiral 
from the outset about what he was doing when his car was stolen. So it appears to me that 
Admiral only incurred those costs because Mr M hadn't been clear with it about the 
circumstances of the theft from the outset. And Mr Ms policy says that if Mr M makes a 
false statement in connection with a claim then Admiral may seek to recover any costs its 
incurred because of that claim. And in this case Mr M has said things when reporting his 
claim and when replying to investigators that aren't supported by the evidence. And in those 
circumstances I think its reasonable that Admiral seeks to recover its costs from Mr M.
Developments
Admiral didn't have any further comments to add. Mr M said his policy did cover him for 
business use. He said hed made his job clear to Admiral. He added that English isn't his first 
language and when the independent investigator visited him he didn't bring an interpreter. 
Mr M told the investigator in his poor English that he managed a takeaway shop. But on 
that specific occasion hed gone to resolve a customers complaint. He told the investigator 
he isn't a delivery driver. He said that if his claim isn't covered then Admiral should refund his 
premium and deduct it from the sums Admiral says he owes to it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mr Ms policy covers him for business use. 
But it specifically excludes cover for making deliveries and Mr M was aware of that.
Mr M said the independent investigator didn't bring an interpreter. But I note the investigator 
recorded everything Mr M told him accurately and which Mr Ms repeated in response to my 
provisional decision. That is, hes the manager of a takeaway shop and not a delivery driver. 
And, on the occasion when his car was stolen, hed gone to resolve a customers complaint. 
So, while I recognise that English isn't Mr Ms first language it appears that the investigator 
accurately recorded the points that Mr M made. So I don't think the lack of an interpreter 
affected him.
A key reason Admiral declined to pay Mr Ms claim is because the investigator spoke with 
the takeaway customer Mr M had taken food to. She confirmed she hadn't complained about 
any delay and the food had arrived when expected. And that doesn't support Mr Ms statement that hed taken food there in order to resolve the complaint. Instead the evidence 
is that Mr M simply delivered the food. I accept that isn't his usual job and that this might 
have been a one off, but his policy doesn't cover him to make deliveries at any time. So he 
wasn't covered at the time of the theft. It follows that it was reasonable for Admiral to decline 
to pay his claim.
Mr M said that Admiral should refund his premium and deduct that sum from the amount it 
says he owes to it. But Mr Ms policy is clear that if Admiral pays a claim as a result of a 
false statement then it may recover its costs and retain any premium. And I think that's the 
case here. Mr M told Admiral hed visited the customer to resolve a complaint. That wasn't 
the case. So I don't think Admiral needs to refund Mr Ms premium.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman