DRN-3799329
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money hes lost after he fell 
victim to a scam.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to all parties, so I wont repeat it all here. But 
briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr G was looking for accommodation and through a person he knew he was given a 
business card for an estate agent. The person Mr G knew had been handed the business 
card by the agent on the street. The person Mr G knew gave him the business card so he 
could see if it might help with his search for a place to live.  
Mr G says he contacted the number and spoke with the person (agent) who the business 
card belonged to. He told this person he was looking for accommodation  ideally Mr G says 
he was looking to rent a house. 
Mr G told us that hed been speaking with this person for around two to three weeks, but 
they hadnt met face to face. Mr G says he was told hed need to pay a deposit and an initial 
rent payment in advance. Mr G has told us that, at the time, hed not yet found a property nor 
was there a particular property in mind. He was told by the agent that hed be taken to view 
several places and a date was arranged for this to take place after the advance payments 
had been made. 
Mr G proceeded to make two payments  the first payment was made on 17 August 2021 for 
£3,000. This was made in a Barclays branch and Mr G said the payment was for home 
improvements. He then went on to make another payment in branch on 25 August 2021 for 
£4,000. For this payment Mr G said it was to fix his home. 
After making the payments Mr G says the agent made excuses and then he stopped 
receiving a response to his contact attempts. It was then that Mr G realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. 
Mr G reported what had happened to Barclays in January 2022. Barclays considered the 
claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) which it is a signatory 
of. Having done so, it reimbursed Mr G 50% of the money hed lost to the scam - £3,500 on 
4 February 2022. Barclays reimbursed half of Mr Gs loss as it said it couldve done more to 
advise him around the risk of scams. However, it held Mr G equally responsible as it didnt 
believe Mr G had taken reasonable steps to check the payments were genuine, such as 
completing checks on the person and payments he was intending to make. 
Mr G remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into things and she didnt think Barclays needed to refund any further funds  money 
Mr G had lost to the scam. She thought there was enough going on for Mr G to have had 
some concerns about the payments he was making. Our Investigator thought it was fair for 
the bank to apply an exception to full reimbursement under the CRM Code and therefore, 
she didnt think the bank was liable for the remaining money Mr G had lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr G, so Ill explain my reasons why. 
As Ive said above, Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like 
the one Mr G has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. In this 
case, Barclays has refunded 50% of Mr Gs loss, accepting that it couldve done more when 
Mr G made the payments in branch. So it has recognised, under the provisions of the CRM 
Code, it should bear some responsibility for Mr Gs loss. As Barclays has provided a partial 
refund to reflect this - there is no need for me to consider this point further. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that*: 
- the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. So, Ive 
considered what steps Mr G took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the individual 
he was speaking to about the accommodation and whether it was reasonable for him to 
proceed with the payments. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Barclays has established that one of the exceptions under the 
CRM Code applies here. Im not persuaded Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and the person or business he transacted with was legitimate. I will now explain 
why.
I note our Investigator commented that Mr G hadnt been in the country for a 
particularly long time and that he doesnt speak much English. Whilst I recognise 
English might not be Mr Gs first language, from what Ive seen and been told, I 
understand that Mr G has been in the country since around 2014. Information given 
to us of a previous tenancy agreement for Mr G also shows a date of 2016. With this 
in mind, I consider Mr G to have resided in the country for a considerable period of 
time. And while it is not fully clear as to how Mr G went about renting the place he 
previously lived at in 2016, on balance, I think it is more likely than not that he had a 
degree of knowledge about renting a property and the process. 
In this case, Mr G received a business card for the agent from a person he knew. 
Weve been told that this person was not a close friend of Mr Gs and, they also dont 
appear to have known or had any previous dealings themselves with the agent. In fact, from what weve been told, the person Mr G knew originally obtained the 
business card after he was handed it by the agent on the street. While, I accept Mr G 
spoke with whom he believed to be the agent by phone and believed he was able to 
help him with finding accommodation, Ive not seen any evidence that shows Mr G 
made any attempt to verify who he was speaking with. Mr G doesnt appear to have 
met the agent and when our Investigator asked for a copy of any communication 
Mr G had between the agent and himself, nothing has been provided. So, its unclear 
as to what was discussed at the time. I note there are aspects that Mr G might have 
found persuasive, such as the professional appearance of the business card. This 
does refer to a website, but Ive not been told that Mr G checked this or made any 
other attempts to verify the agent or the estate agent the business card stated. Given 
that Mr G was asked to make two payments in advance totalling £7,000, I think he 
ought reasonably to have proceeded with more caution. 
As Ive said earlier, its not been made clear to us as to how Mr G went about renting 
a property in 2016, but I think on balance, that its fair to say he would have a degree 
of knowledge about renting properties from his previous experience. Mr G was asked 
by the agent to pay in advance a deposit and the initial rent payment. While I accept 
this may have appeared to have been in line with similar practices for renting a 
property, I think Mr G ought to have been concerned when he was asked to make 
such payments before hed seen or found a property to rent. Its unclear on what 
basis Mr G believed he was making an initial rental payment for a property when at 
this point, he wasnt aware of the costs or how much the rent would be given no 
property had been found. 
Mr G made the payments to two payees, one to the person on the business card and 
the other payment to someone different. Both payments were made to individuals 
and not business accounts. From the information provided, it doesnt appear Mr G 
was told a reason for the change in payee and from what Ive seen Mr G also doesnt 
seem to have questioned this. There is an indication that Mr G possibly thought one 
payment was for the deposit and the other was for the rent advance. I understand 
that this might have been an assumption Mr G made but in the absence of Mr G 
asking the agent questions about who he was paying and him receiving a plausible 
response, I cant say Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying 
the person he was expecting to pay. 
Im also aware that when Mr G was making the payments in branch, he said they 
were for home improvements and to fix his home. Weve been told by Mr G that the 
agent instructed him to put this as the reference. I think it ought to have been a red 
flag to Mr G that the agent was telling him to provide a reference for the payments 
which wasnt correct. I dont think this is consistent with the practices youd expect 
from a legitimate estate agent. Here, Mr G was told to tell the bank his payments 
were for works he was carrying out on his home when in fact they were being made 
so that he could find and rent a property. I think this ought fairly to have caused Mr G 
to question what he was being told.    
I can see our Investigator thought about the fact that Mr G doesnt speak much English and 
that it is not his first language. She thought about whether this meant Mr G was more 
vulnerable to the scam he fell victim to. Mr G has confirmed he spoke with the agent in 
English, that he is working, has lived in the country since around 2014 and he has entered 
into a tenancy agreement previously. Taking this into consideration, Im not persuaded Mr G 
can be considered as vulnerable under the CRM Code. 
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think there was enough going on here that 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Gs part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods or services 
were genuine or that the person (agent) with whom he was transacting with was legitimate. I 
therefore consider, in line with the provisions of the CRM Code, liability should be shared 
equally between Barclays and Mr G.
Finally, Ive considered whether Barclays did all it could to try and recover the money Mr G 
lost, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays did contact 
the receiving banks when he raised the matter, but unfortunately no funds remained. Im also 
mindful that Mr G made the payments in August 2021 and the scam wasnt raised with 
Barclays until several months later in January 2022. In my experience, in cases such as 
these, fraudsters look to move funds on quickly after theyve been received. So I think 
Barclays has done what could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover the 
money.
Its very unfortunate Mr G lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
that Barclays should have done more to prevent him from losing this money. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to hold Barclays fully responsible for the money Mr G has lost. It follows 
that I dont think Barclays needs to do more than it already has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman