DRN-2256161
Complaint
 Mr S says Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to help him when he was a victim of a scam.
 Background
In 2019, Mr S was contacted online by someone he believed to be a recruitment agent. He 
was invited to apply for a position with a large international company. The agent appeared to 
be legitimate, and as Mr S was searching for work at the time, it didnt seem unusual for him 
to be contacted in this way.
He was told he needed to travel to London as part of the recruitment process and asked to 
transfer money to cover the cost of transport and accommodation. On 24 June 2019, he 
made a payment of £2,270. Regrettably, this was not a legitimate opportunity and Mr S had 
transferred the money to a scammer.
He recognised that hed been the victim of a scam shortly afterwards. He was conducting 
online research about the company he believed hed applied for a position with. He saw 
information that said this company would never expect anyone to make an upfront payment 
as part of its recruitment process.
Mr S notified Revolut the following morning (25 June). He told it hed been a victim of a scam 
and asked it to recover the payment from the bank hed transferred the payment to  the 
receiving bank. It didnt contact the receiving bank that day  in fact, there was no contact 
until around six months later. Information provided by the receiving bank showed that the 
funds had been transferred out of the account on the afternoon of 26 June.
Mr S says that if Revolut had acted more promptly, it wouldve been able to recover the 
payment. His complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who agreed with Mr S.  
Revolut disagreed with our investigators view. It said that, even if it had acted promptly, 
there was no guarantee that the receiving bank wouldve frozen the funds in time.
It also said that it can only attempt to recover payments on a best endeavours basis and 
that there cant be any guarantee of success. It pointed out that the terms and conditions of 
its account say the following:
We are not responsible if we make a payment to the person you tell us to  However, if 
you ask us to, well try to get your money back for you  we dont guarantee that we will, 
and in some cases we wont be able to.
Nonetheless, it offered to refund 50% of the payment. Mr S wasnt willing to accept this offer 
and, as Revolut had disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Once Revolut became aware that Mr S had been the victim of a scam, it ought to have 
notified the receiving bank without delay. I can see that the funds werent transferred out of 
the fraudsters account until approximately one day after Revolut became aware of what had 
happened which suggests that there was enough time to stop the onward transfer of the 
funds.
Revolut has argued that, even if it had acted quickly, there was no guarantee that the 
receiving bank wouldve acted quickly enough to prevent the funds from being moved out of 
the account. Its also said that recovery of funds is on a best endeavours basis and that 
success cannot be guaranteed. Its referred to its terms and conditions in support of this.
The fact that Revolut didnt act promptly means that any failing on the part of the receiving 
bank is entirely hypothetical. If the facts of the case were different and the receiving bank 
was predominantly responsible for the failure to recover the funds, then it might have been 
appropriate for Mr S to direct his complaint against that bank but Im not persuaded thats the 
case here.
There was a significant window of opportunity - approximately 24 hours. If Revolut had 
contacted the receiving bank promptly (within an hour), I think its likely that the receiving 
bank wouldve had sufficient time to freeze the funds. Overall, I find it more likely than not 
that the funds couldve been successfully recovered if Revolut had acted promptly.
I have also considered whether Mr S was blameworthy in some way, but Im not persuaded 
he was. All things considered, I am satisfied he was simply the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a cruel fraudster who successfully convinced him this was a necessary step if he 
wanted to be considered for a highly sought-after job opportunity. 
Final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. Revolut Plc should refund the 
payment to Mr S. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on that sum from the date 
he notified it of the scam until that date it pays the settlement to him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman