DRN-3336628
The complaint
L Ltd, an investment company represented by Ms L, complained because HSBC UK Bank 
plc closed its account on the grounds that it was a Relevant Financial Institution (RFI).
What happened
L Ltd had its business banking account with HSBC from 2004. On 30 April 2021, HSBC 
wrote to say that, to comply with new legislation, it had created its ring-fenced bank HSBC 
UK Bank plc. It said that it had moved personal customers and most commercial banking 
customers to that new ring-fenced bank, while Global Banking and Markets customers, and 
customers which were RFIs had stayed within HSBC Bank plc. The letter said that it thought 
L Ltd was an RFI.
HSBC said it wasnt allowed to provide credit to RFIs, and it had a policy not to provide 
banking to RFIs. It told L Ltd that the options were to move to another bank, or to stop being 
an RFI by getting the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or the European Securities and 
Markets Authority to take away L Ltds relevant regulatory permissions.  
L Ltd, represented by Ms L, complained. An HSBC adviser had told her that HSBC wasnt 
allowed to provide credit to RFIs unless they had an annual turnover of more than £6.5m. L 
Ltd agreed that it was an RFI under the legislative definitions, but said that it didnt have an 
annual income of £6.5m and this HSBC decision was discriminatory towards smaller 
businesses, and was presumably an arbitrary threshold relating to bank profits rather than to 
governance. 
L Ltd also pointed out that it had never required a credit facility, so this wasnt a valid reason 
to close its account. It also pointed out that although it was an RFI, it had never sought 
authorisation to hold client money  so it didnt. This could be confirmed by checking the 
FCA register.
L Ltd also objected to the advisers letter which had stated that L Ltd would like to move to 
another bank, when in fact it would be a major inconvenience. Ms L asked for someone 
senior within HSBC to look at the facts of her company.
HSBC sent a short final response letter, saying that L Ltd was an RFI and it had taken the 
decision not to offer services to that sector, so the account would be closed. It apologised for 
any confusion and misunderstanding with the correspondence.
L Ltd, represented by Ms L, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Ms L pointed out 
that L Ltd was a longstanding client and HSBC had failed to consider the banking 
relationship on a case by case basis, or considered what risk L Ltd might pose. HSBC had 
instead just dealt with L Ltd in an arbitrary manner. 
As an outcome, Ms L wanted HSBC to reconsider, making use of the exemptions and 
exceptions which the legislation provided. She asked that HBC should consider the 
relationship on a case by case basis, fully assessing what risks L Ltd posed to HSBCs 
resilience and resolvability, as in the Supervisory Statement SS8/16 issued in December 
2017.
Our investigator didnt uphold L Ltds complaint. He said that it was unfortunate the situation 
had occurred, but HSBCs decision to stop providing banking services to RFIs with an 
annual turnover of under £6.5m was a commercial decision. While the decision might seem 
arbitrary, it was one which HSBC was entitled to make.
L Ltd asked for an ombudsmans decision. Ms L said that the threshold of £6.5m annual 
turnover was a selective decision on commercial terms. However, HSBC hadnt exercised 
the same discretion with her business as it hadnt considered the exemptions and exceptions 
provided for in the legislation. Instead, it had lumped it with less reputable businesses, which 
would mean she might have to move to a risker challenger bank  and this was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand L Ltds frustration at HSBCs decision to apply a blanket policy of not 
offering banking facilities to any RFIs with an annual turnover of below £6.5m. I can also 
understand that this frustration would have been exacerbated by the advisers letter of 26 
May 2021 said that during the phone call Ms L had confirmed youd like to move your 
banking to another bank when this was far from what Ms L wanted. 
But HSBC is entitled to decide on who it does business with, and to whom it offers banking 
services. Its also entitled to establish policies on which to make decisions like these. Its not 
for this service to interfere with what HSBC is entitled to do more generally as a business, or 
with its policies in this sense. What we can do is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of a complaint, rather than criticise HSBCs policies in a wider 
sense.
Ultimately, what L Ltd is unhappy with here is HSBCs policy and HSBCs interpretation of 
that policy. Although I cant tell HSBC to change that policy in a wider sense, Ive considered 
HSBCs implementation of that policy in respect of L Ltd and whether or not it has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
In my view, HSBC has acted fairly. I realise L Ltd will see it differently, as HSBCs decision 
means its not able to get what it wants. But I have to be impartial and consider that HSBCs 
policy is that it wont offer facilities to any RFIs that have annual turnovers of under £6.5m. 
HSBC has explained why thats the situation with L Ltd here, and so I cant say that its 
treating L Ltd differently to any other business customer in the same circumstances.
I take on board all that L Ltd has said about this being unfair, and that L Ltd is less risky as it 
has never sought authorisation for client money and has never requited a credit facility. But 
ultimately, L Ltds complaint is about HSBC making a commercial decision that it doesnt 
want to offer facilities to L Ltd. I think thats a decision its made fairly and in line with its 
policies.
I realise that L Ltd would like HSBC to exercise its discretion here and to apply exemptions 
and exceptions mentioned in the Financial Services and Markets Act. We asked HSBC 
specifically about why it thought those exemptions and exceptions didnt apply to L Ltd. It 
replied that it is aware of the exceptions Ms L has mentioned but has adopted a restrictive 
approach to any potential exemptions. In line with this, it means that it doesnt offer banking to any RFI with an annual turnover of £6.5m. So HSBC is aware of these exceptions but has 
made a policy decision on how to implement these and, in the individual circumstances here, 
that means that I think its still entitled to have taken the actions it did in respect of L Ltds 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not able to uphold L Ltds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman