DRN-3295833
The complaint
Miss E complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited declined a claim she made under her 
employers group critical illness scheme. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss E joined her employers group critical illness scheme on 31 March 2020, with cover 
commencing on 1 May 2020. After receiving a cancer diagnosis on 18 May 2020, Miss E 
made a claim under the policy. HSBC declined the claim under a pre-existing conditions 
exclusion. 
Following discussions between Miss E and her employer, a complaint was raised to HSBC 
but their position didnt change. In short, they said:
Miss E noticed a lump in her breast on 10 March 2020 and visited her GP that same 
day. She was advised it was likely a cyst and to monitor the lump which she did with 
the nurse practitioner at the GP surgery. 
A referral was made to hospital on 5 May 2020 and Miss E had a telephone call with 
a consultant the next day. After this, Miss E decided to seek further advice privately 
and saw a consultant on 12 May 2020 which led to the cancer diagnosis. 
The policy conditions include an exclusion for pre-existing conditions. The 
information they received shows Miss E experienced symptoms of a breast lump and 
investigations commenced before the commencement of cover. So, they were unable 
to pay the claim due to the pre-existing condition. 
They acknowledged that Miss E felt theyd failed to provide enough information to 
allow her to reflect on her decision to take cover. But they said the policy conditions 
were available on her employers benefit website and provide a reminder to read the 
exclusions - as if she satisfies any of them then a claim will not be paid.
They also noted that Miss E said shed cancelled her existing cover when setting up 
this benefit. But they likewise explained that the policy conditions reminded her that, 
if she had existing critical illness cover, she should seek impartial financial advice 
before cancelling or reducing cover on those policies. 
Miss E referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but she 
didnt think HSBC had unfairly declined the claim. In short, she said
Although monitoring the breast lump wasnt considered to be of concern or critical at 
the time, the symptoms were present and Miss E had contacted her GP before cover 
commenced. So, she thought HSBC had acted in line with the policy conditions by 
declining the claim. 
The employer is the policyholder whereas Miss E is a member of the scheme. Group 
schemes work differently to individual policies as they are underwritten at the point of 
claim, not from the outset.
Paperwork wont necessarily be sent out to individual scheme members. And HSBC 
provided benefit information to Miss E through her employer website. So, she was 
satisfied the terms of cover were made clear to Miss E when she joined the scheme. 
Miss E disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Miss E that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said 
in support of her complaint. I also dont underestimate the severity of her condition or the 
impact its had on her. But what I must consider here is whether HSBC has acted fairly by 
declining the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Miss E is hoping for but, for the reasons Ill 
explain, I think they have. 
The policy conditions (employee guide) set out the cover Miss E receives as a member of 
the group scheme. This includes when HSBC is required to pay a claim. Miss E agreed to 
these conditions when she joined the scheme and so, I think its reasonable for HSBC to 
apply them when considering her claim. Ive therefore looked at whether theyve done so 
fairly.
The policy conditions say:
9. Exclusions
No claim will be paid if you satisfy any of the following exclusions.
Pre-existing conditions
No claim will be paid as a result of any medical condition for which:
treatment has been given;
a diagnosis has been made;
investigations have commenced; or
symptoms have been experienced (whether diagnosed or not);
Whether or not you have been seen by a healthcare professional during the 12 
months immediately prior to being covered under the policy.
Miss E hadnt yet received the cancer diagnosis or received treatment before her cover 
commenced on 1 May 2020. The breast lump was however present in March 2020 and it 
had been monitored by a nurse practitioner at the GP surgery. Because of this, Im satisfied 
cancer symptoms had been experienced along with investigations (monitoring) commencing 
in the 12 months prior to Miss E being covered under the policy. I therefore consider HSBC has acted fairly, and in line with the scheme conditions, by applying the above exclusion to 
Miss Es claim.
I understand Miss E is also unhappy with how the cover was provided to her. She feels that 
shes been treated less fairly than that of a consumer who obtains cover by way of an 
individual policy. This is because there wasnt any medical vetting/questionnaire required for 
her to join the scheme which wouldve brought about personal eligibility or claim exclusions. 
Neither was she sent the policy documentation directly from HSBC or given a cooling off 
period to opt out. 
Miss E says that had she been given the same level of care and protection thats given to 
individual policyholders then she wouldnt have joined the scheme or cancelled her existing 
cover. Miss E feels that HSBC acted negligently by not providing equal treatment to her. And 
that they failed to meet their regulatory obligations, with specific reference given to outcome 
three of the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) principles on the fair treatment of customers 
 Consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed 
before, during and after the point of sale.
I understand Miss E feels very strongly about how cover provided through a group scheme 
differs to individual policies. But although I understand Miss Es dissatisfaction, I disagree 
that HSBC has acted negligently or treated Miss E unfairly as a result of this. Let me explain 
why.
As Miss E is aware, the way cover is provided by group schemes is very different to the 
process a consumer undergoes when applying for an individual policy. This is because the 
policyholder of the group scheme here is Miss Es employer. This means HSBC didnt sell 
cover to Miss E. Instead, Miss Es employer set up a policy with HSBC that allowed them to 
offer cover as an employee benefit (by becoming a member of the scheme). 
Naturally, group schemes can have a significant number of members. And so, rather than 
underwrite each member individually (which isnt practical as members can regularly 
change), the policy provides blanket cover but with specified exclusions. This is common 
industry practice. Miss Es employer, as the policyholder, were provided the relevant policy 
information by HSBC so that they could share it with scheme members. And, like many other 
employee benefits, it is for the employee to decide if they wish to opt in for that benefit or 
not.
Although HSBC didnt send policy information directly to Miss E, Im satisfied it was available 
to her. And, under the important information section on page three and four, it says:
Please ensure that you read and are aware of the exclusions outlined in Section 
9. If you satisfy any of these exclusions, your claim will not be paid
If you are uncertain about the right level of cover for your personal 
circumstances, please contact an impartial financial adviser
If you have existing critical illness cover, you should seek impartial financial 
advice before cancelling or reducing cover on those existing policies
You should download this Employee Guide and keep a copy for your records.
You will not be issued with any formal paperwork so you should also keep a 
record of the My Choice current and pending cover pages which are sent to you 
via email once you have confirmed your elected choices. This is important to 
retain, so that you can see the benefit level you have selected.
I think the above warnings are sufficiently prominent in the policy conditions and I think its 
reasonable to have expected Miss E to have read this before she joined the scheme. Had she done so then she wouldve been aware of the policy exclusions, known that she wouldnt 
receive formal paperwork (such as the policy conditions) and understood the importance of 
seeking financial advice. I dont think the failure in Miss E reading this can reasonably lie 
with HSBC. 
In summary, Miss E wasnt sold critical illness cover by HSBC. But rather her employer gave 
Miss E the option of taking out cover as an employee benefit by becoming a scheme 
member. Im satisfied Miss E had the relevant information available to her to decide whether 
it was appropriate for her needs. And so, I likewise dont think HSBC can be fairly held 
responsible for Miss E cancelling her existing cover given the recommendations they 
provided to seek financial advice. 
Im therefore not persuaded that, by way of group schemes operating differently to individual 
policies, Miss E has been treated unfairly. Or that she hasnt received the regulatory 
protections she is entitled to. 
I know Miss E has gone through a very difficult time and I realise a cash lump sum wouldve 
been extremely helpful to her. But, for the above reasons, I think HSBC has acted  and in 
line with the scheme conditions - by declining her critical illness claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman