DRN-4360975
The complaint
Miss G has complained about her car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited regarding 
repairs it carried out to her car after it was damaged during a storm.
What happened
Miss Gs car suffered impact damage to the front end and windscreen during a storm. 
Admiral took it for repair which included it fitting a new windscreen. After taking the car back 
Miss G was concerned that there was air in-flow from around the windscreen and increased 
cabin noise from the engine. Admiral said Miss G had to get the car inspected. Miss G did so 
and, in the meantime, in a final response, Admiral confirmed its position in that respect.
Miss G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our Investigator said Admiral 
needed to investigate the issues and the work it had completed, carrying out any further 
work found necessary. She felt it should also pay £200 compensation. Admiral agreed, paid 
the compensation and appointed an independent engineer (IE). The IE went for a drive in 
the car with Miss G. He said the air and noise were likely normal for the car  although the 
in-flow could be combatted by keeping the cars climate control on low. Miss G, referring 
back to our service, said she hadnt always kept the climate control on before the car was 
damaged in the storm. 
Our Investigator thought the faults with Miss Gs car were likely the result of poor work 
completed by Admirals garage. He said Admiral should pay for Miss Gs car to be fixed 
privately, along with paying to keep her mobile whilst that was done. Also, that it should pay 
a further £100 compensation. Admiral didnt agree to the outcome and the complaint was 
referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I also felt minded to uphold the complaint. But my reasoning and award differed from those 
set out by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to share my views with both 
parties. My provisional findings were:
In short, I do think Admiral has failed Miss G here. It has known for a long time now that she 
has concerns about the efficacy of, particularly, the windscreen repair. And she presented 
evidence to it, in line with its own request to see such, that there was likely a problem with 
the windscreen itself. 
Miss Gs evidence regarding the windscreen is not a full formal report from a motor engineer. 
Rather her local manufacturer garage has noted on her MOT invoice that: 
Windscreen was replaced in November by insurance company. Air coming in at bottom of 
windscreen, Confirm [sic] customer concerned windscreen not fitted correctly to vehicle not 
due to any manufacturer fault. 
I accept that this is not clear proof that Admiral did poor work. I say that as its a brief 
comment, not very well worded and its not clear who made this finding or how or in what 
capacity. But I think it should have been enough to prompt Admiral to review the windscreen 
fitment. This is something though which it has never done. 
Even following our first Investigators view, which said Admiral should investigate both the 
faults and the work it had completed, which Admiral agreed to, the windscreen was not 
assessed. Rather the IE considered and reported on the faults. His report does show that he 
too experienced air in-flow from the area at the base of the windscreen. I can understand 
Miss Gs concern at his conclusion that she should merely mitigate that in-flow by always 
keeping the cars climate control switched on, on a low setting. 
The IE also describes that the fans, with the climate control switched on, were directed at the 
floor  and yet he reports that stopped the air in-flow from around the windscreen. He hasnt 
explained how or why that might be, only stating some air in-flow is normal and in my 
opinion the climate control is not usually turned off and only set to a comfortable 
temperature. Miss G also reported that the IE said he always keep his cars climate control 
on low  so he thinks Miss G should too. Even the formal report comments by the IE dont, to 
me, feel like a very technical finding. And when I couple that with the fact the fitment of the 
windscreen itself doesnt seem to have been tested, I dont think Admiral has done enough 
to show it has correctly fitted Miss Gs windscreen. 
So Ive thought about what should be done now. It feels unreasonable to suggest that further 
tests alone are done at this stage  but also unfair to say Miss G needs to find out how to fix 
the problem and arrange for that, whilst tying Admiral into covering all the unknown costs for 
doing so. My award has to be workable in practice  which means it needs to be clear so 
that both parties know what is expected.
In the circumstances here it is clear to me that the issue in contention all along seems to 
have been the windscreen. And I come back to the fact that the only evidence available, post 
Admirals repair, about the windscreen itself  the note on the MOT  indicates a fault with 
how the windscreen was fitted. So I propose to require Admiral to have one of its approved 
windscreen repairers, not the garage that fitted the windscreen initially, to take out and re-fit 
the windscreen. Then, Admiral will have to have an IE, not previously involved in the claim or 
complaint, assess and report on the windscreen to confirm it has been fitted properly  with 
Admiral, there and then, fixing any issues of concern should any be found. That should 
ensure a proper repair is finally completed. 
Admiral should minimise any disruption to Miss G whilst carrying out this refit and 
assessment. So it should arrange to collect Miss Gs car from her at a location to suit her, 
providing to her in exchange, a car similar to her own (as detailed in the policy) for her to use 
whilst it has her car. When her car is ready to be returned, Admiral should arrange a further, 
similar exchange.
I think Miss G has been frustrated by Admiral over this issue. I note that when it had the IE 
visit Miss G, it didnt subsequently write to her confirming the outcome of those enquiries. 
I also know that every time Miss G has used her car, shes been unhappy with the noise in 
the cabin and that shes often had to either experience lower than normal temperature in the 
cabin, or switch on the climate control when she otherwise wouldnt have done. I can see 
that her enjoyment in driving the car has been affected. I think that £300 total compensation 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
Miss G said she was happy with the outcome. But wanted to emphasise that shed been 
invited to get comment from her local dealer, which she did (in the MOT invoice), only for 
Admiral to ignore it.
Admiral said it disagreed with the outcome. It provided some comment which it said was 
from a senior engineer. The engineer said the MOT invoice was not more compelling than 
the IEs finding  with the IEs report being detailed about the process undertaken to determine the problem. The engineer said anyone inspecting the car would easily discern a 
difference between a problem with the climate control and a poorly fitted screen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss Gs comment. I was aware of that detail when forming my provisional decision. 
I note Admirals concern with the outcome. I did explain provisionally that, in my view, the 
MOT invoice wasnt wholly compelling  but that it should have been enough to make 
Admiral review how the windscreen had been fitted. My point about the IEs report was that 
despite Admiral having agreed to review that work  the fitting of the windscreen  that was 
still not done. In the circumstances I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable outcome 
here is as I provisionally stated.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove and re-fit the windscreen in Miss Gs car via one of its approve windscreen 
repairers (not the garage who completed work before). With the fitting being assessed 
and reported on by an IE who hasnt previously been involved in the claim or complaint. 
Should the IE find any issues with the fitment at that stage, they should be fixed.
To facilitate the above; collect Miss Gs car from her, at a location suitable to her, 
exchanging it for a similar car for her to use whilst the above redress point is completed. 
Once it is, arrange a similar exchange to return Miss Gs car to her.
Pay a further £100 compensation (where the total award is £300 but £200 has already 
been paid).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman