DRN-4217624
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy in 2018 with LV covering his van. 
In 2018 his van was stolen. LV accepted it had been stolen, but it refused to pay the claim as 
the keys Mr J provided to it didnt seem to belong to it.
Mr J complained and brought his complaint to this service at the time. An ombudsman 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. She thought LV had acted fairly in investigating the theft 
and had instructed a forensic key expert who provided evidence supporting it. She decided 
that LV had reasonably rejected the claim.
In late 2022 Mr Js van was found and recovered. The key he had sent to LV was shown to 
operate the van, meaning that LVs decision to reject his claim wasnt valid.
He complained to LV about the four years it took to handle his claim. He asks for 
compensation and said its incorrect decision had caused him many personal problems 
including a great deal of stress and inconvenience. LV offered him £100 but Mr J rejected 
this as insufficient.
LV didnt provide him with a final response within eight weeks, so he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He thought LV had acted fairly in rejecting 
Mr Js claim based on the information it had, and this was backed by the ombudsmans 
decision in 2018. So he didnt think LV should pay compensation to Mr J.
Mr J didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence Ive been supplied, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. I do 
appreciate this will be a disappointment to him and Ill explain why.
Ive read about what happened with Mr Js van when it was stolen in 2018. There seemed to 
have been a great deal of confusion at the time because he was able to provide two keys he 
used for different purposes on his van, but when analysed by LVs forensic key expert, their 
report suggested that neither key was able to be used to start the van. 
What this meant was that LV believed it was stolen using another key and it thought that key 
had been left on or near the van. So it rejected Mr Js claim.
Ive said above that our ombudsman didnt uphold his complaint. She decided on balance 
that LV hadnt treated Mr J unfairly in rejecting his claim on the information it had.
I can see that the van has now been recovered and Mr J is seeking compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I dont doubt that Mr J has had to deal with a range of problems 
from what took place with his van in 2018, but its my role to assess whether LV is 
reasonably responsible for causing them. 
Ive thought about Mr Js situation very carefully and I cant fairly say his distress is fairly the 
result of LVs actions. LV took a decision in 2018, which was upheld by an ombudsman 
reviewing the information available. That means LV acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. 
So I cant reasonably say LV are responsible for the impact that decision had on Mr J in the 
intervening years.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman