DRN-3804500
Complaint
Mrs E has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mrs E with a loan for £2,000.00 in September 2007. This loan had 
an APR of 59.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£4,057.80, including interest, fees and other insurance charges of £2,057.80, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £180. One of our investigators reviewed Mrs 
Es complaint and he thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided Mrs E with her loan. 
So he thought that Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Es complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Mrs E. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Mrs E such 
that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Mrs E could afford to repay any 
credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether 
a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders 
checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to 
verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mrs E was already 
significantly indebted. And Mrs E was already in arrears on some of her existing 
commitments. Everyday Loans says that Mrs E said that her accounts had been brought up 
to date. But given her relatively low income and the amount of the arrears, I would have 
expected it to have obtained evidence of this first before proceeding with this application.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs E has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position when she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Mrs Es difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add my 
experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any plausible 
arguments from Everyday Loans, Im persuaded to accept Mrs Es version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Es existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mrs Es circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Mrs E with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs E ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs E lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs E
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mrs E by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any insurance which might not 
already have been refunded) Mrs E paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs E to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs Es credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Es complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman