DRN-3902549
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) wont reimburse the financial loss its suffered as a result of fraud.
Mr W, who is a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf.
Whats happened?
In March 2021, Mr W discovered that an employee of T (the employee) had fraudulently 
removed around £315,000 from Ts bank account in several faster payments instructed over 
a 12-month period via online banking (the payments).
The payments all went into bank accounts held in the employees name, but the payee name 
was entered incorrectly so that the payments didnt appear suspicious to the directors of T.
Mr W says it was the employees job to make payments on behalf of T, and he had given 
them access to the online banking user profile of another employee to enable them to do so. 
The employee was making lots of genuine transactions, as well as the fraudulent 
transactions.
Mr W asked NatWest to reimburse the money the employee stole from T, but the bank 
refused. In summary, it said:
The payments werent flagged as unusual or suspicious because they were in line 
with Ts normal account activity. The payments were authorised, and they were made 
using a long-standing online banking user profile with no concerns flagged against it. 
NatWest has a duty to process payments in line with its customer mandate, and 
thats what it did.
Confirmation of Payee (COP) didnt apply to the payments and in any event, the 
COP system is not designed to prevent properly authorised payments. Its there to 
prevent people from being tricked into paying a different account from the one 
intended. The employee knew what they were doing and would likely have ignored 
and moved past any no match result. 
NatWest has approached the beneficiary banks with a view to recovering Ts money, 
but theyve indicated that no funds remain. 
Mr W referred the matter to this Service. In summary, he said:
NatWest has a duty of care to its customers, and it shouldnt follow payment 
instructions if its believes that a payment is an attempt to misappropriate funds. The 
bank failed to take reasonable care in this instance. Suspicious activity on Ts 
account shouldve given NatWest reasonable grounds to believe that 
misappropriation of funds was a possibility, and it shouldve contacted Mr W.
The employee sent a large number of high value payments from Ts account to their 
own accounts (one of which was a new payee). The amounts transferred were out of 
the ordinary. The volume, value and frequency of the payments shouldve been 
picked up as suspicious activity.
Money was being sent from Ts account to the same beneficiary accounts frequently, 
using varying account holder names which did not match the name on the receiving 
accounts, and this shouldve been identified by the COP system. Mr W accepts that 
the employee would probably have ignored a no match result but he thinks that 
NatWest shouldve noted the repeated discrepancy and contacted him about it. 
NatWest cant disregard suspicious activity just because it comes from a             
long-standing banking profile which has historically been honest.
Another bank has reimbursed T in similar circumstances.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator concluded that NatWest could not reasonably be held liable for Ts financial 
loss.
Mr W didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that T has received a refund from another bank in similar circumstances, but I 
dont think it follows that NatWest has made an error in this case. It is my role to consider the 
evidence and decide whether NatWest has made an error which has led to a financial loss 
and, if it has, what NatWest should do to put things right.
Mr W has argued that NatWest has a duty of care to its customers, and it shouldnt follow 
payment instructions if it believes that a payment is an attempt to misappropriate funds. I 
dont disagree. Its common ground that the payments were made in line with the relevant 
account mandate and that they were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations  
they were made using the payment tools linked to Ts account and online banking. But, 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that NatWest 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
But I dont think NatWest can reasonably be expected to have been suspicious about the 
payments. Ive reviewed Ts account statements in the months leading up to the payments, and during the relevant time, and I dont think the payments were so unusual that they ought 
to have alerted NatWest that T may be at risk of financial harm. I can see that it was usual 
for there to be lots of activity on Ts account, and that debits of a similar value to, or for 
higher amounts than, the payments regularly left the account to a variety of payees. Overall, 
I dont think there was anything obviously suspicious about the volume, value or frequency of 
the payments. They werent out of character in comparison to Ts normal account activity. 
And Im not satisfied that NatWest made an error in processing the payments without looking 
into them and/or without contacting Mr W to make further enquiries about them.
I recognise that the payee names did not match the name on the receiving accounts. But, as 
Im not persuaded that the payments should have triggered NatWests fraud detection 
systems, I cant reasonably expect the bank to have looked at the payments in enough detail 
for it to have noted this discrepancy. 
NatWest has explained that COP didnt apply to the payments, but I have carefully 
considered what Mr W has said about the COP system anyway. COP is an account name 
checking service which helps individuals and organisations make payments to the intended 
recipient safely when setting up a new payment. Financial institutions are not currently 
required to COP check existing recipients. So, even if COP did apply to the payments, I 
could only have expected NatWest to have delivered a negative result for the first payment 
sent to each receiving account, which the employee would most likely have moved past in 
the circumstances. I couldnt expect the bank to carry out further COP checks, and it says 
that it didnt. So, I dont think NatWest has failed to prevent the fraud via the COP system.
Mr W has said that NatWest cant disregard suspicious activity just because it comes from a 
long-standing banking profile which has historically been honest, and I agree. But Im not 
persuaded that the payments were obviously suspicious and, because they were made 
using a long-standing profile with no previous concerns flagged against it, Im satisfied that 
NatWest cant reasonably be expected to have been aware that there was any added risk.
Overall, I sympathise with Ts position, and I understand why the directors of T did not 
realise that the employee was fraudulently removing funds from Ts account, but I cant 
reasonably expect NatWest to have realised that something was amiss here either. Im not 
persuaded that the bank made an error in processing the payments without making further 
enquiries. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require NatWest to reimburse Ts 
financial losses.
Ive seen evidence that NatWest contacted the beneficiary banks after the fraud was 
reported to it. But unfortunately, no funds remained to be recovered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman