DRN-1686391
The complaint
Mr L says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L had six loans with Satsuma. I've summarised some information Satsuma provided 
about the loans below.
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidInstalment
s Amount
1 14/08/2017 23/12/2017 4 £100
2 07/10/2017 03/04/2018 6 £100
3 19/11/2018 04/04/2019 6 £200
4 07/01/2019 06/04/2019 6 £1,000
5 14/04/2019 Outstanding 12 £360
6 24/07/2019 Outstanding 12 £1,400
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. He didn't 
think Satsuma was right to have agreed to lend loans 5 or 6. Satsuma didn't respond to the 
adjudicator and Mr L asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman - so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
For the first four loans Satsuma agreed for Mr L, I think its checks were proportionate. Loans 
1 to 3 were relatively small in comparison to Mr L's declared income and the expenditure 
information Mr L provided suggested they were all affordable. In these earlier stages of the 
lending relationship, I don't think it would've been unreasonable for Satsuma to rely more 
heavily on Mr L's declarations. I have seen that Satsuma made significant adjustments to Mr 
L's expenditure for loans 1 to 3 following its credit check - but again I think this was a 
proportionate and fair response at this time.
I think Satsuma's checks for loan 4 were proportionate too. Although the loan was for a lot 
more than the previous loans, the repayments still seemed to be affordable based on Mr L's 
declared income and expenditure and I still think it was reasonable at this stage for Satsuma 
to accept this information from Mr L without asking him to provide further evidence.
But for loans 5 and 6, I do not think Satsuma's checks were proportionate. I also think, from 
the checks Satsuma actually carried out, it ought to have realised Mr L's indebtedness was 
likely increasing unsustainably.
I've seen that Mr L had around five other short-term loans outstanding when Mr L asked for 
loan 5 and a similar number when he asked for loan 6. I've also seen that as a result of the 
credit checks Satsuma carried out, it increased Mr L's declared credit commitments from 
nothing to £1,050 per month. It made a similar adjustment for loan 6, increasing Mr L's 
declared credit commitments from nothing to £1,100 per month. 
So it seems Satsuma was aware that Mr L had a significant amount of other debt to 
maintain, which he didn't tell Satsuma about. In these circumstance, I don't think it was 
enough for Satsuma to make the adjustments it made to Mr L's expenditure. I think it ought 
to have gone further and asked Mr L for some proof of income and expenditure, or otherwise 
carried out a more detailed review of his financial circumstances.Had Satsuma done this, I think it would have seen the details of Mr L's other short-term 
loans and his other credit commitments and living expenses. And from this, I think it 
would've concluded that Mr L's indebtedness had increased to unsustainable levels and it 
wouldn't have approved loans 5 or 6.
I'm therefore upholding Mr L's complaint in respect of loans 5 and 6.
Putting things right
Satsuma shouldnt have given Mr L loans 5 or 6.
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Satsuma should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Satsuma should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr L having made 
overpayments then Satsuma should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Satsuma should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr L. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Satsuma should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. Satsuma shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Satsuma should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation 
to loans 5 and 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr L's complaint in part. Provident Personal Credit Limited must put things right by 
taking the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman