DRN-2527223
The complaint
Mr G complains that AA underwriting Insurance Company Limited didnt offer him enough for 
his written-off car and other items when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
AA offered Mr G £19,100 for his car. He said that wasnt its market value, as it would cost 
£21,000 to replace it. Mr G said AA hadnt considered adverts for similar cars or the 
manufacturer-fitted extras his car had, such as metallic paint. He also said its offer of £75 for 
a replacement dash cam wasnt enough, as that was the cost of a refurbished one. AA said it 
couldnt offer the cost of a new one as he hadnt provided a receipt or proof of its age. The 
same applied to its offer of £80 for a replacement five-year old tablet. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint. She said we consider whether an 
insurers offer for a car is reasonable, based on the valuations given in the national trade 
guides. She said shed checked the guides and in her view AAs offer was reasonable. She 
said it had taken into account the cars factory-fitted extras. She said shed looked at the 
adverts Mr G had provided, but she didnt think they showed that the trade guide valuations 
were wrong. She also thought the offers AA made for the dash cam and tablet were fair. 
Mr G said the offer for the car wasnt £19,100, as that included the policy excess, which was 
deducted. He said when he called us initially, he was referred to a link that described market 
value as the price the car would have sold for at a reputable dealer before it was damaged. 
Mr G said the same link referred to some of the trade guides having said that recently, cars 
were selling close to or at advertised prices. Based on this, he said he wouldnt accept 
anything less than £21,000 for the car. And he said the dash cam should be replaced with a 
new one, so the offer of £75 for a used one wasnt acceptable. Mr G also pointed out that 
when his written-off car was sold on, the salvage agent had said its estimated retail value 
was £19,932. He said that was the sum provided to the agent by AA.
The investigator considered Mr Gs points and said AA should pay him for the dash cam in 
line with the prices shown on the links hed provided for ones of a similar make and model. 
She also referred the complaint for review by an ombudsman, as Mr G had requested. AA 
later said it wouldnt increase the offer for the dash cam, as Mr G hadnt supplied proof of 
purchase and it couldnt be sure what it cost or its age. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me, and I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
As the investigator has confirmed, we dont value cars. But we think the trade guides are 
usually the best way to establish a cars market value. We look at adverts that are provided 
as well (as do most insurers). On occasion we find them persuasive, but usually we dont. 
Thats not only because they dont reflect selling prices. Frequently, small differences 
between cars make a difference to their advertised value. And theres often a huge variation 
in advertised prices between what appear to be very similar cars. 
In this case, I think AA tried to follow our guidance in arriving at the cars likely market value. 
The increased sum it offered Mr G after consulting the trade guide valuations was an 
average of the values given by two of the guides (£18,500) rather than the sum halfway 
between the two valuations. The third trade guide it looked at quoted £19,932 for the car, but 
AA said it disregarded that sum, as it was out of line with the other valuations.
AA later raised its offer to £19,100, which was slightly higher than the average of all three  
trade guide valuations. We asked AA why its engineer gave the salvage agent a valuation of 
£19,932. AA said that was an error on his part, and that AA didnt benefit from it, as it only 
gets a return on the sale price of a vehicle. 
AA said fittings such as metallic paint, entertainment and technology pack, electric front 
seats, LED lights and electronic folding mirrors did not add value, according to the most well-
established trade guide. It also said the value of fittings depreciated, but it added £60 for the 
cars electronic front seats. The investigator later checked the trade guides AA had used - 
plus a fourth guide, which gave a valuation for the car of £18,391. She found that taking into 
account the features Mr G had mentioned, and adding the fourth valuation to the other three, 
didnt result in a higher average sum for the car.
We think its reasonable for an insurer to ignore a valuation thats out of line with the others -  
whether its higher or lower than the other three valuations. In this case, that meant 
disregarding the highest valuation, which I think was fair. Even if AA hadnt disregarded it 
and had also included the fourth trade guide valuation in its calculations, it would have 
arrived at an average of £18,884. So I think AA acted reasonably in offering Mr G £19,100 
for the car. Settlement offers are always made subject to the deduction of the agreed policy 
excess. 
I think AA has shown that it looked at the adverts Mr G provided, but it wasnt persuaded that 
it should raise the settlement sum any further. I think that was reasonable. Ive also looked at 
numerous adverts for what appear to be similar cars. Mr G found several cars advertised for 
sale at £19,500 to £20,000 that were the same year, make and model as his, but without 
features such as metallic paint and folding mirrors. They all had lower mileage than Mr Gs 
car - and it isnt possible to know what they were sold for. The links he provided showed a 
large range of similar cars, but there was a huge variation in their advertised prices. 
Mr G has quoted our definition of what the market value of a car is, but the exact sum a car 
would have sold for at a dealership cant be determined with any certainty. Thats why we 
think the trade guide valuations are generally the best way of establishing likely selling 
prices. If the trade guides think cars have been selling at or close to their advertised prices, I 
think their valuations are likely to reflect that situation.  
Turning to the loss of Mr Gs personal items, I think it was fair for AA to ask for proof of the 
value of the tablet and the dash cam. Mr G sent the investigator links showing the value of a 
replacement dash cam and she also looked at online prices. Ive looked at the evidence too, 
and it shows the item advertised at prices between £27.99 and £180. In my view, as Mr G 
couldnt show how old the dash cam was, it was reasonable for AA to offer him £75 for it.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, as I think AA acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Gs claim, 
Im minded not to uphold his complaint. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. AA didnt comment. Mr G repeated 
that he was only paid £19,000 for his car. He said the valuation by the salvage firm wasnt an 
error unless every other similar price was an error for similar cars they sell. He queried how 
the AA could discount the higher valuation when the salvage companys one was similar. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I pointed out in my provisional decision, the agreed policy excess is always deducted 
from the offer of settlement an insurer makes for a car. So I think it was reasonable for AA to 
deduct Mr Gs £100 policy excess from its offer of £19,100. 
The salvage firm didnt decide on a valuation for the car. AA told us it passed the highest 
trade guide valuation (£19,932) on to the salvage firm in error. I think it was fair for AA to 
disregard that sum in valuing Mr Gs car, as Ive explained above.
I dont think Mr Gs comments really add to the details I considered before making my 
provisional decision, so I dont think theres any reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman