DRN-3938247
The complaint
Mr K complains that Eazy Accident Claims Ltd (EACL) failed to clearly explain a settlement
offer made to him and about their service fees.
What happened
In 2018 following an injury at work Mr K said he agreed to use the services of EACL .In
December 2021 Mr K said EACL told him hed been offered a settlement of £8,400. He said
he was persuaded that it was the best offer he could expect, and that any court action was
unlikely to succeed. As the offer was time limited, Mr K said he felt hed no choice but to
accept the settlement.
Mr K said his understanding from the agreement hed with EACL was that their service fees
would be 25%. But theyd also deducted £900 for his case being on the court waiting list
even though it didnt go to court. He said his settlement was paid when EACL wrote him a
cheque for £5,400. Mr K complained to EACL as he wasnt provided with the breakdown of
the settlement offer, and hed had to accept what EACL had told him. He also said they were
unhelpful, rude and ignored his request for the information he asked for.
When Mr K checked with his solicitors, he said he was told the settlement was for £10,000.
His solicitors forwarded him a further £2,100, so in total he received £7,500.
EACL said they hadnt been sent the full breakdown of the settlement from Mr Ks solicitors.
But his solicitors had since confirmed the total settlement was £10,000 and the remaining
monies had been paid by Mr Ks solicitors to him.
EACL said theyd only charged a fee of 25% when they could have charged 35% as Mr Ks
settlement was for £10,000. As the remaining monies had been paid to Mr K they considered
this had been settled.
Mr K wasnt happy with EACLs response. He said he hadnt seen the settlement offer and
EACL had only paid him £5,400, a reduction of 46%. Mr K referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that EACLs service could have been better. But Mr K had received a
settlement amount of £7.500 which meant EACL had deducted a fee of 25%. As their
agreement said for settlements of £10,000, they could charge a fee of 35%, he said EACL
by only deducting a 25% fee had compensated Mr K for their poor service.
Mr K didnt agree, he said he still hadnt seen any of the documents about his settlement
offer, and the additional £2,100 had been paid by his solicitors and not EACL. He asked for
an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in early January 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
EACL are a claims management company (CMC). That means I cant look at the quality of
the legal advice given, or actions taken by Mr Ks solicitors. I can only look at whether there
has been poor service given by EACL. And if it has, Ill look to see if that has led to any
specific loss or disadvantage to Mr K.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration as he doesnt accept the signature on EACLs agreement
is his. EACL also feel strongly that theyd been working for Mr K for over three years to get a
settlement for his injury claim. I understand Mr Ks concerns about his signature. But it isnt
our role to validate a signature. And Mr K doesnt dispute that hed instructed EACL to act for
him.
EACLs service summary agreement is dated August 2018. It says that EACL will:
.advise, investigate and represent the client to lodge a complaint.
And goes on to say:
The Firm charges 25% for the provision of the claims management service.
But I can also see that examples are given if the service fee was based on the amount
of redress/compensation paid. It shows that for redress of £1,000 the service fee would
be 25%, if the redress was £3,000 the service fee would be 30%, and for £10,000 the
service fee would be 35%.
Mr K was initially told hed been offered in settlement £8,400. And after EACL had deducted
their fee 25% and a £900 for court listing, hed received £5400. If EACL had applied their
service fee based on Mr Ks redress their fee for this amount of redress would have been
30%. But they didnt apply this percentage rate, from what I can see EACL calculated their
fee as outlined above 25% for the provision of their claims management service, and this is
reflected by Mr Ks testimony that he was told hed only ever pay a fee of 25%.
So even through Mr Ks settlement was £10,000 as EACL hadnt based their service fee
on the redress received but as previously applied a fixed rate of 25%, this would have
meant Mr K should receive £7,500 from his settlement of £10,000. And this is the
amount he has now received. So, I dont think Mr K has suffered a financial loss.
But I think the service provided by EACL could have been better. EACL said theyd
provide their claims management service, to advise, investigate and represent Mr K. They 
werent simply seeking out referrals to identify a claim or potential claim for Mr Ks
solicitors. So, I would have expected them to adhere to the Claims Management
Conduct of Business sourcebook (CMCOB) that provides guidance to CMCs. And I
dont think EACL has adhered to CMCOB 6.2.1 - Explanation of fees and charges. This
says that EACL should have sent Mr K an itemised bill, that detailed:
how the fees and charges have been calculated including, where relevant, by reference
to the full amount of any money recovered for the customer in respect of damages or
compensation, or in settlement of the claim
CMCOB also provides guidance as to how Mr K should have been kept informed about
his claim  CMCOB 6.1 covers the passing on of information and keeping the consumer
updated.
By EACL failing to adhere to CMCOB I think Mr K has experienced inconvenience in
having to find out what his settlement offer was. And having lost faith with EACL about
the amount of his settlement offer and the application of their fees I think this has causedhim distress. So, I think EACL should compensate Mr K for this and pay him £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
EACL has not responded.
Mr K said he wanted to see his settlement offer letter, as despite asking for a copy hed yet 
to see the document. He also didnt think £250 sufficiently compensated him for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been suffering since 2018.
While I can understand Mr Ks frustration and uncertainty about the amount of his settlement 
offer. I think it would have been for Mr Ks solicitors to have provided the settlement offer 
details to EACL to pass onto him. EACL said the solicitors didnt send the documents to 
them. Mr K has been told by his solicitors that his offer was for £10,000 and they have paid 
him the balance. Mr K can ask his solicitors to send the details of the offer to him. Solicitors 
arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority so this service cant consider any 
complaints about the actions of a firm of solicitors, that would be for the Legal Ombudsman 
to consider.
While Mr Ks claim started in 2018, the first settlement offer wasnt made until December 
2021. And the balance was paid by his solicitors before he brought his complaint to us in 
March 2022. Ive no doubt Mr K has suffered distress and inconvenience as hes lost faith in 
the handling of his claim. But I think £250 is a fair and reasonable reflection of this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Eazy Accident Claims Ltd to pay Mr K £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman