DRN-4305534
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the service she received from QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) when 
she made a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so it serves no purpose for me 
to detail it here. In summary Miss Cs car was taken without her consent and involved in an 
accident. Ultimately QIC determined that the car was a total loss. As it hadnt made any 
recovery when Miss C complained the claim was marked as a fault claim.
Our investigator felt that the communication from QIC could have been better and noted that 
there were delays in progressing the claim. He thought that Miss C should have been 
allowed access to her car sooner than she was. He didnt find that QIC had erred appointing 
a private investigator or in marking the claim as fault. Our investigator initially 
recommended that Miss C was paid £250 for the trouble and upset she had been caused by 
the handling of her claim.
QIC agreed but Miss C didnt. Through her representative she explained more about her 
personal circumstances. Our investigator considered these and recommended that 
compensation was paid in the sum of £350.
QIC felt this award was excessive and that £250 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and having done 
so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
I dont find that QIC treated Miss C unfairly by marking this as a fault claim. This 
doesnt mean she was at fault; rather that it hadnt been able to recover from the third 
party. Likewise I dont find that it was wrong, based on its engineers report to deem 
the vehicle a total loss, although I note it was subsequently repaired.
Insurers are required to handle claims promptly and fairly. I do find that that the 
engineers report could have been released to Miss C, redacted if need be, in for her 
to make representations regarding repair. Although I acknowledge that it was 
ultimately for QIC to decide how to settle the claim, Miss C was without a car and 
communication from QIC and its agents was less than she could have expected. I 
accept this would have caused inconvenience.
It is not in dispute that compensation is due for the poor service that Miss C received. 
The issue is what amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. QIC doesnt 
believe that £350 is warranted. It doesnt consider the distress Miss C faced was 
considerable or the impact lasted many months or weeks. Referring to our published 
guidance it felt that the inconvenience caused fitted with the following description: If 
an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance 
you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more 
than just minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake. An award 
between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
mistakes or a larger single mistake, requiring reasonable effort to sort out. These 
typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either 
some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
I dont find that QICs submission is unreasonable. However, I must also take into 
take into account Miss Cs particular circumstances. Having done so Im satisfied that 
those circumstances, including that Miss C had recently been violently attacked, 
made Miss C susceptible to greater impact. Of course, this wasnt the fault of QIC, 
but it doesnt seem to have been taken into consideration, although it had been 
notified of the fact. That said, I dont find that Miss C was blackmailed into the 
investigation or there was anything untoward in the appointment of an investigator. 
Awards of compensation are merited where we find that there has been an impact of 
the policyholders everyday life. They are not to punish or reprimand them insurers  
this Service does not regulate financial businesses; we have no power to do that. 
In all the circumstances and having taken into account the impact on Miss C given 
her personal situation Im satisfied that compensation of £350 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss C £350 
in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman