DRN-2539378
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Retail Money Market Ltd (Retail Money) reported a missed payment in 
relation to a loan he had taken out. Mr A feels this was unfair and resulted in other credit 
applications he made being unfairly declined.
What happened
In September 2020 Retail Money attempted to collect Mr As monthly direct debit payment of 
£22.97 towards his loan. But the attempted collection was unsuccessful. So, Retail Money 
contacted Mr A, to let him know the payment had been missed, and that it would attempt to 
take payment again shortly. The missed payment was also reported to the relevant credit 
reference agencies.
Mr A didnt think it was fair for Retail Money to report a missed payment, so he raised a 
complaint with it. Mr A said that whilst the direct debit hadnt been successfully collected  
he had made a manual payment of £46.15 off the loan on the same day as the direct debit 
was due to be paid  thinking he was settling the total loan amount. So, Mr A said it wasnt 
accurate to note he had missed a payment. He had actually paid more than the agreed 
amount that month.
Retail Money investigated Mr As concerns. It said that it had acted correctly when reporting 
a missed payment  because there was an agreement between Retail Money and Mr A to 
collect £22.97 via direct debit each month  and that hadnt happened in September 2020. 
Retail Money said Mr A had gone online and asked for a settlement figure for the loan  but 
that it had been made clear to Mr A that the settlement figure given (£46.15) didnt include 
the direct debit due to come out (£22.97). Retail Money said it had explained the online 
system did highlight that the direct debit should remain in place until after Retail Money had 
confirmed settlement of the loan. So, it said it had hadnt done anything wrong in reporting 
that a payment had been missed  as this was true.
But Retail Money said it recognised Mr A had been trying to settle the loan in full and had 
paid the direct debit that had been due but was missed. So, the loan was settled. And 
therefore, agreed that it would ask for the missed payment record to be removed from Mr As 
credit file, as a gesture of goodwill. It noted that this could take 30 days to be completed.
Following this, Mr A referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. Mr A 
said that he had tried to seek credit following the above incident, and these applications had 
been declined because of the missed payment history  and now these were also recorded 
on his credit file, reducing his credit score further. 
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that it 
was fair and reasonable for Retail Money to ask for the missed payment record to be 
removed, given Mr A was never in arrears, and had actually overpaid on the relevant month. 
But he thought Retail Money should also pay Mr A £50 compensation, for the trouble and 
upset reporting the missed payment had caused. Our investigator said it looked most likely 
Mr A had credit declined, where he otherwise probably wouldnt have.
Retail Money disagreed, and maintained its position that it hadnt wrongly reported the 
information, and therefore it didnt think it was reasonable that it pays Mr A any 
compensation to Mr A. 
Because Retail Money disagreed, this complaint was referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision to both parties  detailing my thoughts on this complaint. In this I 
said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. So, I dont intend on asking 
Retail Money to do anything more. Ive explained why below.
Mr A feels Retail Money acted incorrectly by reporting that he had missed a payment 
towards his loan. So, Ive considered whether Retail Money acted as I wouldve expected it 
to, in noting that Mr A had missed a scheduled payment in the first instance. And, based on 
everything Ive seen, I think Retail Money did act correctly.
Ive reviewed a copy of the credit agreement Mr A signed when he took out the loan. And, I 
can see this says a payment of £22.97 will be due in 12 monthly instalments. And from 
looking at the payment history for the loan account, Im aware the direct debit was set up for 
the 24th of each month, starting in December 2019. Given this, its clear a direct debit 
payment of £22.97 was due to be collected from Mr A on 24 September 2020. The payment 
history also shows the attempt to collect this payment was unsuccessful. So, Im satisfied Mr 
A did miss a monthly payment in September 2020.
Generally, once a payment is missed, this will automatically generate information for a 
lender to report to the credit reference agencies, to explain that the payment wasnt 
collected. And I think its likely this is what happened here. In this case, it was accurate that 
the agreed payment wasnt collected, and so I dont think Retail Money did anything wrong in 
reporting this fact.
Im aware that on the date the direct debit was due to be collected, Mr A sought to find out 
the settlement figure to repay the loan early. And as a result of this, paid an amount of 
£46.15 to settle the loan, on the same date the direct debit was due to come out. 
Retail Money has provided this service with a screen shot from its online system. This shows 
that when requesting a settlement figure, Mr A would have clearly been told that the figure 
didnt include the direct debit due to come out shortly. And that this direct debit should 
remain in place, until confirmation the loan was settled was provided to Mr A. So, I think 
Retail Money did all it could do, to assist Mr A in making sure no payments were missed. 
However, Retail Money has said that as a gesture of goodwill, recognising that Mr A was 
making attempts to settle the loan, it would ask the relevant credit reference agencies to 
change the reporting, so that a missed payment wasnt recorded any longer. I do think this 
was a reasonable step for Retail Money to take  it recognised that the missed direct debit 
payment was a mistake, and that Mr A did make a payment larger than the direct debit 
amount due. So, I think Retail Money acted fairly here. 
In its response to Mr As complaint, Retail Money let Mr A know that it would take around 30 
days for the information on his credit file to change. And I think this was useful information to 
provide to Mr A, so he was aware of the situation.Mr A has said that he applied for credit and this was declined. He feels the declinature of this 
credit must have been as a result of the missed payment initially showing on his credit file. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr As credit file and do note this appears to be the only negative marker 
on Mr As file at the time. But it doesnt necessarily follow that the negative marker was the 
reason the credit sought was declined. The could be a number of reasons for this  and 
credit history is just one of the factors taken into account when a decision on whether to lend 
is made.
And in any event, because I dont think Retail Money did anything wrong in reporting the 
information in the first instance, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to hold Retail Money 
accountable for any further credit applications being declined. It hadnt reported incorrect 
information.
Retail Money and Mr A responded to me and agreed to my provisional decision.  Both 
parties noted they didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with any further evidence or comments which alter what I said 
in my provisional decision. So, I dont think Retail Money need to do anything more, for the 
same reasons and detailed in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
Given the above, mu final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Retail Money Market Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman