DRN-1999282
The complaint
 Mr T complains about the quality of a car Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) supplied through a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr T entered a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in March 2017, for the supply of a car. 
The car was less than 6 months old and had covered 3,751 miles. The cash price of the car 
was £50,388 and Mr T paid a £10,000 deposit. Mr T agreed to pay £588.08 a month over 36 
months. The agreement was settled by part-exchange in March 2020.
In April 2017 Mr T contacted the dealership to report a skipping/juddering sensation whilst 
driving at low speed, when the steering was near or at full lock. Mr T was concerned about 
the safety of the car, he wanted to reject it, but in August 2017 the dealership advised it had 
found no fault, it explained that the skipping sensation was a normal characteristic. In 
September 2017 the dealership replaced the tyres and steering knuckle under warranty. 
There was further contact between Mr T and the dealership during 2018 and 2019 as the 
problem continued.
 
Unable to resolve his concerns with the dealership, Mr T complained to MBFS in January 
2020. It confirmed the manufacturer was aware of the tyre skipping issue with his particular 
model. It said the sensation was a characteristic/comfort issue and not a fault. And explained 
that the skipping sensation was due to the different positioning of the front axle on right hand 
drive cars. MBFS said experts had confirmed that the characteristic had no detrimental 
impact on tyre wear or the safety of the car. It rejected Mr Ts complaint.
Unhappy with MBFS response, Mr T complained to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied from the videos Mr T provided and 
his testimony that the car exhibited the undesirable behaviour to a significant degree, so did 
not think the car was of satisfactory quality. He recommended MBFS refund 15% of Mr Ts 
monthly repayments to reflect his loss of enjoyment. 
MBFS disagreed, in summary it said;
The manufacturer and motoring experts have confirmed the skipping and noise 
experienced by Mr T is a characteristic of this particular model and not a fault.
The characteristic only occurs at low temperatures and when the steering is in full 
lock position. The videos have been taken during these specific conditions, so paint a 
biased view of Mr Ts overall experience.
As the characteristic only occurs in specific conditions and is therefore intermittent, 
there has been little impact or inconvenience to Mr T.
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement Mr T had with MBFS is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, so this service can consider complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase 
agreement, MBFS is also the supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint 
about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that there is an implied term in any contract to 
supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, appearance, finish, safety, and durability. Satisfactory 
is taken to be what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant 
circumstances include  but arent limited to  the age and mileage of the car. 
MBFS supplied Mr T with what Id consider to be a nearly new car, in that it was less than 6 
months old and had just under 4,000 miles on the clock. It was a high-end car with a cash 
price of over £50,000. Mr T says he wouldnt have expected the problems he experienced 
with a premium car brand. And I think its fair to say a reasonable person would expect the 
quality to be of a higher standard than an older, more road worn car. But also, to be of a 
higher standard compared to a more inexpensive brand, with a similar specification.
Mr T reported his concerns about the car within the first month of getting it. So, Im satisfied 
the skipping issue wasnt something caused by Mr T or a result of normal wear and tear. He 
said the car was skipping and juddering at low speeds when the steering was in or near full 
lock. Mr T said this would produce a noise which could be heard inside and outside the car. 
He said he was experiencing this daily, whilst manoeuvring, reversing and turning at 
junctions. And he complained the noise made the car embarrassing to drive.
Mr T told us that the car was supposed to be the family car, but he would often use his other 
car for family trips, because he didnt feel it was safe enough, as the car would feel like it 
was skidding, particularly in wet weather.
 
The dealership did try to remedy the issue by replacing the steering knuckle and changing 
the front tyres to a different compound specification in September 2017. Mr T said that 
although this did lessen the sensation, it did not completely alleviate the skipping or the 
noise. And in March 2018 he got in touch with the dealership to report that the tyres were 
prematurely wearing, and the skipping/juddering had got much worse.
 
The dealership advised Mr T that he should replace the tyres with winter ones, at his own 
expense. As the previous attempt to resolve the issue did not work, Mr T wanted to reject the 
car. MBFS argued that the skipping sensation was a comfort issue and did not afford Mr T 
the right to reject the car. Mr T says he subsequently changed the tyres again, but this also 
failed to resolve the issue.
 
MBFS and the manufacturer both accept the skipping sensation is an issue with Mr Ts 
particular model of car. However, MBFS says this is an acceptable characteristic and not an 
inherent fault. The manufacturer has provided a detailed explanation as to why the car 
handles that way. In short it says it is down to the positioning of the front axle on cars built 
for right hand drive. It says that when the steering is on full lock, the steering angle 
difference can result in the front tyres skipping. It advised that the sensation is more 
pronounced at low speeds, during colder weather due to the changes in tyre elasticity 
and when larger wheels with profile tyres are fitted.All parties agree that Mr T was experiencing skipping and noise issues, in certain situations, 
but they disagree on the extent to which Mr Ts car exhibited the behaviour. So, the key 
question is whether the issues Mr T has told us about mean that the car he was supplied 
was not of satisfactory quality.
MBFS provided three reports in support of its argument, none of which involved an 
inspection of Mr Ts car. One report was from the Driver and Vehicle Standard Agency 
(DVSA). The DVSA tested a number of cars of the same model. It was able to reproduce 
the behaviour on certain road surfaces with the steering in full lock position and at low 
speed. The report describes the sound produced as grating and graunching. It noted that 
the characteristic did not affect the performance or safety of the car. 
Another independent report tested another car of the same model. The report concluded that 
the noise/sensation only occurs at full lock and slow speeds and did not make the car unsafe 
to drive. The third independent report related to another car of the same model and range as 
Mr Ts car. It noted the car remained safe to drive and said winter tyres should help alleviate 
the problem. MBFS notes that the dealership investigated Mr Ts concerns in August 2018 
and March 2019 and no faults were found.
Mr T says that the skipping issue was causing his tyres to wear prematurely. The car had 
covered 3,751 miles at supply, and I can see that when the tyres were changed under 
warranty in September 2017, the mileage was recorded at 8,965 miles. Six months after the 
front tyres were replaced, Mr T contacted the dealership to advise the front tyres were worn 
and the juddering had got worse, the dealership recommended he replace the tyres with 
winter ones, at his own expense. Mr T tells us that he subsequently changed the tyres, 
although he has been unable to provide evidence of this cost. I can see the first MOT took 
place in January 2020, the mileage was recorded at just under 25,000 miles and the 
advisory notes the offside front tyre is worn close to the legal limit.
Mr T had only been driving around 7,000 miles a year since he had the car, so I would not 
generally expect the tyres to wear at this frequency. Whilst I do not know for sure, I have not 
seen anything to suggest his driving style was the cause of the tyre wear. And I know from 
other similar cases that regular tyre replacement would generally suggest something wasnt 
right with the car.
 
Mr T has provided videos taken in December 2019 and January 2020. The footage was 
taken after the dealerships attempt to alleviate the problem with the front tyre change and 
the replacement of the steering knuckle. The footage taken inside the car as Mr T reverses 
into and then pulls out of a drive, clearly shows the cabin shaking from side to side. In 
addition, a relatively loud thumping/clunking noise can be heard over the engine noise. 
There is further footage of Mr T turning into a junction and manoeuvring in a car park. As the 
wheel is being turned to the locked position, the cabin is seen to shake and again the 
thumping/clunking noise can be heard, this noise appears to be more prominent when the 
steering is being turned to lock position, whilst in reverse. In addition, the footage taken 
outside the car from a couple of metres away, of the car being manoeuvred in the car park, 
shows the car skipping and the thumping noise can also be heard.
Ive taken into account that the way different cars handle will vary. And there will be 
reasonably varying degrees of smoothness, noise and vibrations and this will change 
depending on the type of car and tyres chosen. And whilst I accept that a skipping sensation 
might be more common in certain cars and situations. I also have to recognise that there will 
be situations where the nature of the sensation experienced by the consumer, goes beyond 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. It appears that the overall severity of the issue can vary across the same model of car. And 
Its important to note that my findings are based specifically in relation to Mr Ts complaint 
about his individual car and Im not making a decision in respect of other cars of the same 
make and model as his.
Having considered all the reports, the testimony of the parties and the videos- I am not 
persuaded that there is enough evidence to suggest that Mr Ts car was unsafe. However, 
safety isnt the only consideration when Im deciding whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Despite the experts reassurances over safety  if certain issues with the car are 
making the driver feel unsafe or uncomfortable, or having some other kind of negative 
impact on the car, this is also important when considering the overall question of satisfactory 
quality.
Having reviewed the video footage, the testimony of the parties and the information relating 
to the premature tyre wear, I think Mr Ts car exhibited the skipping issue to a particularly 
significant degree. And I think this would have negatively impacted how safe the car felt and 
the level of comfort he experienced, particularly in the colder months. Taking everything into 
account I dont think a reasonable person would consider the car to be satisfactory, 
particularly given it was a premium brand car, the cost and its age. Considering all the 
circumstances, I think this means Mr Ts car was not of satisfactory quality.
I think its reasonable to conclude the change of front tyres and replacement steering 
knuckle, was in essence an attempt to repair the problem. And its clear from the videos that 
this repair failed, so I think Mr T would have been entitled to reject the car, if he had not part-
exchanged it. 
MBFS says the footage taken paints a biased view of Mr Ts overall experience, as the 
videos were taken during the winter months, when the issue would be most prominent. The 
footage was taken on two different dates, in December 2019 and January 2020, so I think it 
gives an accurate reflection of the handling at its worse, during the winter. And I dont think 
Mr T only experienced this issue during the winter, as I can see he was also in touch with the 
dealership about the ongoing problem during the warmer months between April to June 
2017. In addition, I dont think it would be fair to say the issue would have little impact on Mr 
Ts driving experience, as manoeuvres at or near full lock, would be expected to occur at 
least twice in most journeys when moving into and out of parking spaces and Ive seen in 
one of the videos that Mr T also experienced this issue turning at a junction.
 
Putting things right
If Mr Ts agreement had not ended, I would be recommending he be allowed to reject the 
car. As it stands, the car was part-exchanged in March 2020 and his £10,000 deposit was 
rolled over to his new agreement; so, I am not recommending MBFS refund his deposit. As I 
think Mr T should have been allowed to reject his car, after the attempted repair, I do not 
think he should have incurred the cost of replacing the tyres. So, I think MBFS should refund 
him the cost of the tyre replacement if he provides the receipt. 
Despite the issues Mr T experienced, he did still have use of the car, but he was paying a lot 
each month, for what I consider to be an undesirable driving experience for a premium brand 
car. So, I think he should get a comparatively small amount back from his monthly 
repayments to reflect his impaired use. There is no exact science or formula here and I 
accept that some months the skipping issue would have been worse than others, but to put 
things right I think MBFS should refund Mr T 15% of his monthly payments as compensation, 
to reflect his overall impaired driving experience. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
refund Mr T 15% of each monthly rental payment made.
upon production of the receipt, refund Mr T the cost of replacing the tyres. 
MBFS should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds calculated from 
the date he made each payment to the date of settlement.
If MBFS considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my award it should 
provide Mr T with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman