DRN-3775279
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a 
scam. 
What happened
Mr R says he was looking for a pet. He went online and via a known advertising website 
came across an advert for puppies for sale. Mr R contacted the seller via the advert. Mr R 
and the seller then spoke with each other via a messaging app and Mr R says he had phone 
calls with the seller too. 
Mr R explained in one call with the seller he asked him to confirm the puppies were available 
and, that this call was also so he could hear the sellers voice - so he knew he was dealing 
with a real person. Mr R says he recalls hearing dogs in the background during this call. 
Mr R says after coming off this call he checked the address hed been given and saw it was 
a legitimate address.
Mr R was sent a video and some pictures of the puppies for sale. Mr R also says the 
advertising website used was well known and people hed talked to beforehand had said it 
was where theyd also got their pets. Mr R also added that there were many positive reviews 
online about the website he found the advert on. 
Mr R has provided chat messages between him and the seller. In these Mr R asked the 
seller if he could arrange a visit to pay a deposit and see the puppy he wanted to purchase. 
He was informed by the seller that he was only available for viewings at the weekend. A visit 
was arranged with the seller for the coming weekend, which was within two days time of this 
contact. 
Mr R was told by the seller that he works on a first come first serve basis. Mr R enquired 
about paying a deposit via a well-known payments system, in order to reserve a puppy. He 
was told the payments system didnt cover pet sales but that a payment could be done via 
bank transfer and an electronic invoice would be provided by email. 
Mr R was provided with the bank details for the deposit and proceeded to make a payment 
of £300 via his Monzo account. Mr R says he called the seller back after making the 
payment to make sure he sent the confirmation of what was agreed, which Mr R says he 
received. 
On 27 February 2021, Mr R visited the address hed been given to collect the puppy. Mr R 
has told us that whilst the address existed, the property appeared to have been vacant for a 
long time. 
The same day, Mr R contacted Monzo to let it know that hed been the victim of a scam. It 
contacted the beneficiary bank to let it know a scam has been reported. 
Monzo considered whether it should refund Mr R for his loss but declined his claim. It didnt 
think Mr R had taken enough steps to check who he was paying and what for. It feels Mr R 
didnt do enough to verify that the seller was genuine. Monzo has commented that being 
sent photos of the puppies and speaking to the seller over the phone, isnt clear evidence 
that the puppies existed or that the seller owned the animal. Monzo has further added that 
the website where the puppies were advertised advises to exchange cash in person for 
purchases. 
Monzo said it reached out to the beneficiary bank for an indemnity, but that it didnt receive a 
response. 
Mr R remained unhappy with Monzos response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. She 
didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Rs claim under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code (the CRM Code) and said it hadnt been able to establish that  Mr R made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase 
from a legitimate seller.  
As Monzo disagreed the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr R authorised the payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Mr R in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr R from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr R was tricked into making the payment. He thought he 
would receive a puppy in exchange for his money and this wasnt the case. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Mr R to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Mr R too. 
The CRM Code 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the CRM Code which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
- Mr R ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
- Mr R made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom Mr R transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, Im not persuaded the concerns Monzo has raised 
about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr R was making are enough to support its position 
that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he 
made. It follows that I dont think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse Mr R under the terms of the CRM Code.
Having carefully considered what both Mr R and Monzo have said and provided, Im 
persuaded Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for a 
genuine puppy and that the person he was transacting with was a legitimate seller. I have 
reached this conclusion, when thinking about what it is realistic to have expected Mr R to do 
when he was paying a deposit of £300.
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for belief?
Having considered Monzos arguments carefully, I dont find them persuasive. I think Mr R 
took enough care with a relatively modest deposit of £300 to say he had a reasonable basis 
for believing he was buying a puppy from a genuine seller. I say this because:
Mr R found the advert for the puppies for sale via a known advertisement website. 
Hes told us he saw many positive reviews online about the advertising site and 
alongside this, hes told us others he talked to beforehand/friends had also used the 
website to buy their pets. I think this would have been reassuring to Mr R. Monzo has 
indicated that it doesnt consider this point relevant to this case. That said, it has 
commented that the site is not a merchant but a place where anyone can go and sell 
items. It adds that whilst one seller may be genuine this doesnt mean another is 
because they are advertised on the same website. Ive thought carefully about this, 
but on balance, Im persuaded Mr Rs interaction with others who said theyd used 
the site to buy their own pet, alongside the positive reviews about the advertising 
website in general would have provided him with a reasonable degree of 
reassurance at the time. And this, combined with the other aspects Ive detailed 
below, reasonable led Mr R to believe that he was buying a puppy from a genuine 
seller.    
Mr R spoke with the seller by phone to check the puppies were available and, 
because he wanted to hear the sellers voice to know that he was dealing with a real 
person. I recognise Monzo has said Mr R should have at least had a video call with 
the seller to see the dogs. But I dont find the absence of a video call means Mr R 
hadnt take enough steps to check who he was paying. Mr R says didnt have a video 
call, as he spoke with the seller by phone, was sent a video and photos of the 
puppies. Hes also told us that during the call with the seller he heard dogs in the 
background. While I accept none of these steps taken by Mr R were conclusive proof, Im satisfied the evidence indicates he took a number of steps to validate the 
seller and the puppies. And I think these steps were proportionate to the transaction 
he was making.
Mr R and the seller had arranged for him the visit the coming weekend (within two 
days of their contact) for him to pick up the puppy. Mr R has said he planned to pay 
the remaining amount for the puppy in cash at this visit. Mr R was provided with an 
address which he checked, and saw was genuine. I think it reasonable that this 
would have reassured and convinced Mr R that this was a genuine seller. 
Mr R needed to pay a deposit to reserve a puppy. He did ask the seller if he could 
make the deposit payment via a well-known payments system, but the seller told him 
that it didnt allow payments for pet sales. Mr R has told us that he paid the deposit 
for the puppy first as this is the process that is followed on selling sites to reserve a 
puppy. I dont think it unreasonable for Mr R to have paid a deposit. Mr R was told by 
the seller that he worked on a first come first serve basis and I think most people 
would expect to pay some kind of deposit in this type of sale. In asking if he could 
pay the deposit via the well-known payments system, Monzo has said it shows Mr R 
had attempted to act cautiously yet went ahead and paid the deposit by faster 
payment. I dont think it unreasonable of Mr R to have taken what he was told by the 
seller about being unable to make the deposit payment through the known payments 
system at face value. I say this as I dont think the payments system Mr R enquired 
about would commonly and more widely be known as one that is used to buy goods 
such as pets. So, Im not persuaded he missed a red flag here.  
Mr R communicated with the seller in various ways  via the advertisement website, 
via the messaging app and by phone call. The advertising website is well-known and 
the overall price he was due to pay for the puppy was broadly in line with similar 
puppies of the same breed hed seen  so I dont think the situation was too good to 
be true.
In all, I think it reasonable that a purchaser should take steps proportionate to the purchase 
being made. When thinking about the circumstances of the deposit payment Mr R made 
here, Im satisfied in light of the above, that he did enough. I dont think he missed any red 
flags that ought to have been readily apparent at the time he was making the payment that 
indicated there was a possibility he wouldnt get the puppy or that the seller was not genuine. 
Monzo has raised the warnings on the website where the puppies were advertised and has 
highlighted that the website advises to exchange cash in person for purchases. As set out 
above, Mr R has said he paid the deposit for the puppy first as this is the process that is 
followed on selling sites to reserve a puppy and that he planned to pay the remaining 
amount due in cash when visiting the sellers home. Given the relatively modest deposit of 
£300, I find Mr Rs actions to be proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Overall, I dont find Monzo has established Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
that he was paying a legitimate person for genuine goods. This is because I dont think 
Mr Rs actions fell below the level of care expected of him in this situation. I think Monzo 
ought to have fully refunded Mr R at the time he reported the loss and so it should fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr R by refunding that loss now.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr R?Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr R from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
At the time Mr R made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably also have had 
systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that 
its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Having thought about the payment Mr R made in this case, I dont consider this to have been 
a remarkable payment. The payment was relatively low in value and having looked at Mr Rs 
account statements and previous account activity, I can see hed made previous payments 
for similar amounts. I also dont find the fact that the payment was made to a new payee, in 
and of itself ought to have caused Monzo concern that Mr R might be at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time he made it. So, it follows that I dont think Monzo should have 
identified an APP scam risk in this particular case or that it needed to provide Mr R with an 
effective warning. 
Despite this, Monzo has said a low friction warning was shown. So Ive considered whether 
seeing the low friction warning at the time the payment was made should have altered 
Mr Rs thought processes. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded the information within Monzos low friction warning 
should have led Mr R to further question what was happening and stop him from making the 
payment. I say this because, I dont think the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this 
particular type of purchase scam obvious. It doesnt cover the common features of this type 
of goods scam or bring to life what the type of scam Mr R fell victim to looks and feels like. 
And it doesnt explain in sufficient detail what Mr R could have done to protect himself from 
the scam he fell victim to. 
In light of all the circumstances in this particular case, which includes the low friction 
warning Monzo says it gave, Im satisfied Mr R has met the level of care expected of him 
under the CRM Code. It follows that Im not satisfied Monzo has established that it can fairly 
rely on the relevant exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should now: 
Refund the £300.00 Mr R lost as a result of the scam; plus pay 8% simple interest per year 
on this amount, from the date Monzo declined Mr Rs complaint under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible.) 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman