DRN-3615497
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is holding him liable for a cash 
withdrawal transaction he disputes making.
Mr B has a representative in this matter.
What happened
On 22 December 2020, £5,000 cash was withdrawn from Mr Bs Barclays account in-branch 
(London) over the counter.  The following day, Mr B contacted Barclays to dispute this 
withdrawal  stating that he did not authorise it and that he was not in London on 22 
December. 
Barclays issued a temporary refund to Mr Bs account whilst it investigated the matter.  
However, Barclays then reversed the refund and held Mr B liable for the £5,000.  
Consequently, Mr B raised a complaint which he later referred to this Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and did not uphold it.  In short, she 
thought, based on the evidence before her, that it was likely Mr B made the withdrawal or 
authorised another to make it.
Mr B did not accept the investigators findings.  His representatives raised several queries 
and said they would provide further information.  The deadline they and our investigator set 
have now passed.  So, this matter has been referred to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Barclays says a UK passport was used as identification for the withdrawal concerned  the 
number of which has been evidenced.  Barclays also says that two security questions were 
asked during the withdrawal process  both of which were answered correctly.
Mr B says he only has a non-UK passport.  He has also provided screenshots which he says 
shows that he was not in London from 21 December to 24 December 2020.  Therefore, he 
argues that this evidence shows he could not have made the withdrawal.
Based on these factual disputes, the issue which I need to resolve is  did Mr B authorise 
the £5,000 withdrawal, or did a third-party make it without his consent?  Having reflected on 
this carefully, I am satisfied that the former proposition is likely. I will explain why:
Mr B has not provided any evidence to show he does not have a UK passport.
So, the only other plausible alternative is that a fraudster forged a UK passport in Mr 
Bs name.  However, I find this unlikely, particularly given the fact that Mr B says he 
does not possess a UK passport  meaning the fraudster would have forged an 
inaccurate passport.
In any event, I am not persuaded that a fraudster would go to the extent (mentioned 
above) to make the withdrawal concerned.  I say this because Mr B had a significant 
balance at the time  however, the fraudster only withdrew £5,000.  This is not 
indicative behavior of an opportunistic fraudster.  In these types of cases, fraudsters 
tend to try to drain the account concerned for as much money as they can before 
their activities are discovered.  This is not something which happened in Mr Bs case.
Between when the withdrawal occurred, and when Mr B reported it to Barclays, it 
does not appear any further transactions were attempted, or any other type of fraud 
for that matter.  Again, to my mind, this is not consistent with fraudulent behavior.
I acknowledge Mr B has argued the evidence he has provided  in the form of 
screenshots of the supposed location of his mobile phone  shows that he was not in 
London at the time of the withdrawal.  However, I have some difficulties with this 
proposition:
oMr Bs screenshots are not timestamped and do not show any link with Mr Bs 
mobile phone.
oEven if I were satisfied that the screenshots are linked to Mr Bs mobile 
phone, all they demonstrate is that his mobile phone was not in London 
during the relevant period.  They do not prove that Mr B himself was not in 
London.
oThere is some inconsistency with Mr Bs testimony.  That is, he argues the 
unverified screenshots show he was not in London from 21 December to 24 
December 2020.  However, Barclays has provided technical evidence which 
shows that Mr Bs mobile banking app was accessed from his registered 
mobile phone on 23 December 2020.  Whilst I appreciate this is not on the 
day the withdrawal occurred  it nevertheless casts doubt on Mr Bs 
testimony.  Moreover, Mr B has not suggested that his mobile phone was 
compromised.
Mr B has also raised concerns about CCTV footage.  However, Barclays has confirmed that 
this is not available.
So, taking all the above factors together  I am satisfied, on balance, that it is more likely 
than not that Mr B authorised the withdrawal concerned.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman