DRN-3484621
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded interest on purchases he made 
after it increased his credit card limit. 
What happened
Mr A had a Barclays credit card. 
In March 2015, the limit was increased from £10,000 to £15,000. 
Barclays carried out a review of how it set some of its customers credit limits.
It identified that Mr As might have been higher than it should have been at that time. 
It wrote to him and explained that it would be refunding any late payment charges 
plus the associated interest, along with £75 compensation.
Mr A complained to Barclays. He said hed paid thousands of pounds of interest and 
that the increased limit had a detrimental impact on his finances.
Barclays said Mr As spending habits and management of his credit card showed he 
had a good history of making payments prior to the credit limit increase. It said there 
wasnt anything in his transaction history to indicate he was in financial difficulties. 
And he hadnt been in touch with Barclays to say so. 
So, it was satisfied the refund it had provided  for late payment fees  was fair. It 
also offered an additional £75 compensation. 
Mr A brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it. Mr A remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he thinks Barclays should refund him for interest 
he incurred in the period following the credit limit increase  he says hes been 
paying it off for years. To determine whether this is fair, Ive first had to consider what 
his position was prior to the limit being increased.
Prior to the credit limit being increased, Mr A had managed his account well  making 
his minimum repayments on time. So, at the point his credit limit was increased I 
havent seen anything to indicate he was in financial difficulties. If he was, Id have 
expected Barclays to take this into account when determining whether the credit limit 
should be increased. But from what Ive seen, his transaction history wasnt cause for 
concern. 
Barclays has acknowledged there were some late payments after the limit was 
increased but from what Ive seen these were sporadic  across a few years - rather 
than for example, a monthly occurrence which might suggest Mr A was struggling to 
make the repayments. When I balance this with Mr A having not exceeded his credit 
limit and being able to make repayments above the minimum amount, Im not 
persuaded the additional lending was unaffordable or caused him financial 
difficulties. 
Mr A has said Barclays should refund him for interest charge after his limit was 
increased. But what I must keep in mind is that ultimately, Mr A had the benefit of 
using the increased available credit. After the interest free period ended in January 
2016, interest then applied, and as Ive not seen anything to persuade the lending 
was unaffordable, I wouldnt expect Barclays to refund him this. 
While it might have caused Mr A some initial concern having received Barclays letter 
explaining that it mightve given him a higher limit than it should have, this doesnt 
mean the lending was unaffordable - rather that Barclays had recognised there was a 
period where its lending decisions could have been better. So, I think the £150 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman