DRN-1424519
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy that it failed to insure his vehicle properly when he took out his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out insurance for his vehicle through a comparison website. When his policy came 
up for renewal he was surprised to find that LV had recorded his vehicle details incorrectly, 
although it had recorded the correct vehicle registration. To make things worse it wouldnt 
cover his type of vehicle anyway. And it went onto renew his policy when it was clearly 
aware of the problem and that it didnt provide cover for his type of vehicle. 
So Mr C complained to LV. It accepted it was responsible for the error in relation to 
registering the wrong vehicle details on the policy and for renewing the policy when it 
shouldnt have done. LV said it would provide cover for the year as it was clearly its error, it 
ensured everything was refunded that was owed in relation to the policy renewal and offered 
£200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr C remained unhappy, so he complained 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. Although he 
accepted that LV had got things wrong he thought it had taken reasonable steps to put 
things right once it was aware of the problem. And so he didnt ask LV to do anything more.
As Mr C remained unhappy the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mr C and I understand his frustration and suspicion 
about LV. He feels LV has taken his money even though he wasnt insured but that isnt the 
case. And he feels he should be compensated for the potential stress and embarrassment 
he could have faced had he been stopped for driving without insurance.
Although I can understand Mr Cs suspicions about LV it has said it will provide insurance 
cover for him and it is, in effect, on cover for the time it had the incorrect details recorded. It 
is possible there is a claim from that period still out there which hasnt been reported yet, 
although I accept this is unlikely, and LV would still have to cover that claim, especially as 
the correct vehicle registration details were recorded. So I think it is fair for LV to retain the 
premium Mr C paid as it has provided cover.
Plus, Id like to reassure Mr C that this service wouldve expected LV to cover any claim that 
happened during that period. And provide him with a letter of indemnity if he was stopped by 
the police for driving without insurance. I say this as it isnt disputed that Mr C hadnt done 
anything wrong and LV made the error.
So Im satisfied LV has taken reasonable steps here to put things right and taken ownership 
of its error which is good to see. Turning to any compensation that Mr C should be paid I can 
see LV offered Mr C £200 as a gesture of goodwill. I know Mr C would like more and feels 
that LVs offer shouldnt be considered here. But LV offered £200 as it knows it caused Mr C 
a fair degree of stress and inconvenience. And as this is in line with the kind of award Id 
ordinarily have made Im not asking LV to do anymore.
I know Mr C feels that this doesnt cover any possible embarrassment or the threat that 
driving without insurance couldve had on his career. But this service only looks to 
compensate for the actual stress and inconvenience a customer faced because of the 
mistake the insurer made. Had any of these things happened then I wouldve looked to 
compensate for this. Fortunately Mr C didnt face any additional stress or inconvenience and 
so Im satisfied that LVs goodwill payment of £200 is sufficient to cover the actual stress 
Mr C faced.
So, although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I wont be asking LV to do 
anything more.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman