DRN-2911410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the settlement British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) offered 
after it caused an escape of water in their home. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr R throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr R had Home Emergency cover with BG. It replaced the water tank under the insurance 
policy but, because it wasnt connected properly, water escaped and caused damage to all 
three floors of Mr Rs home.
BG accepted responsibility and paid for alternative accommodation while it arranged drying, 
repairs, and replacement of damaged possessions. However, Mr R was unhappy with the 
amount it offered him to replace damaged possessions, and he didnt think its compensation 
offer adequately reflected the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She thought that BG had provided 
reasonable evidence to show that its offer of £4,500 covered the cost of replacing his 
damaged possessions. In addition, BG paid compensation of £3,000, which our investigator 
thought was enough in the circumstances. She didnt recommend any further action.
Mr R didnt agree. He thought the findings were inadequate and lacked neutrality, but he 
didnt provide any further comment or evidence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, theres no dispute about the cause of the damage, or that BG was responsible for 
putting things right. So, my role here is to decide whether BG did enough to put Mr R back in 
the position he was in before the damage.
Ill put some context around the escape of water. The water tank on the upper floor wasnt 
connected properly, so water ran along the floors, coming down through the ceilings to the 
lower floors, mainly though the light fittings. Mr R provided a video of it happening, and water 
can be seen concentrated in some areas, mainly in the central parts of the floors under the 
light fittings. I can see why the incident wouldve been distressing. 
Settlement offer
Mr R commented on a number of items for which he didnt think BG had made a fair 
settlement offer. Both parties are aware of the list, so I wont give details again here. As Ive 
said, BGs responsibility was to put Mr R back in the position he was in before the incident, 
which means replacing possessions on a like for like basis. For example, he had a two-year 
old games console which had been used. So, BGs responsibility was to provide Mr R with a 
settlement which would allow him to buy a replacement used console of the same type  not 
a brand new one. Ive looked at the disputed items on Mr Rs list and I can see that BG 
provided evidence from online sources that it offered a sum for each which broadly covered 
the cost of a replacement used item of similar or better standard. 
I appreciate that to Mr R it may feel unsatisfactory because he wouldve paid significantly 
more for some of the items when new. But the fact is they were no longer new at the time of 
the incident and BG didnt have to replace on a new for old basis.
Im satisfied that BG made a fair offer to cover replacement of the damaged possessions 
and I see no reason to ask it to pay any more.
Flooring
Mr R thinks BG shouldve repaired or replaced the damaged flooring in his dining room. Ive 
looked at the photos along with the evidence provided by BGs contractor after assessing the 
damage and Im satisfied that BG wasnt responsible for the repair. Thats because I agree 
that the damage appears to be consistent with scuff marks caused by normal use of dining 
chairs, not water damage.
I think its worth saying at this point that BG carried out structural repairs to the floor upstairs 
and re-carpeted the house throughout, at a cost of just under £8,000. BG didnt ask for any 
contribution to the cost of the work, even though Mr R confirmed the upstairs floor was 
already damaged by another leak. In the circumstances, I think that was fair, but it doesnt 
mean BG should also repair the dining room floor when its clear the damage wasnt caused 
by the escape of water.
I cant see any reason to ask BG to do any more here.
Delays
Mr R complained that he experienced significant delays, with BG not meeting promised 
timelines and its contractors taking a lot of holidays during repairs. Ive looked at the overall 
timeline to see whether there is evidence of any avoidable delays. 
The work took around three months to complete. During the first month, BG attended Mr Rs 
home on numerous occasions and instructed any work which could be done in preparation 
for repairs. It wasnt until after the first month that the property was fully dried, and work 
could properly begin. While I can see that return visits to assess the drying process might be 
interpreted as people simply taking time off during repairs, drying was a necessary process 
and I cant fairly say it amounted to an avoidable delay. 
The timeline of events indicates that, once drying was complete, BG progressed the 
following stages of repair within a reasonable time. I should point out that during the three 
months of repair work, BG provided Mr R and his family with hotel accommodation. Given 
that it was paying for the hotel accommodation, I cant see any benefit to BG in delaying the 
work any longer than necessary. Some delays are inevitable in such circumstances, but I 
cant see anything in the evidence to suggest that BG caused significant or avoidable delays.
Distress and inconvenience
Finally, Mr R says BGs total settlement offer of £7,500 isnt enough to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience this whole experience caused. I understand that living in a hotel instead of the family home isnt an ideal situation, and I accept that there wouldve been some 
inconvenience. I also understand that it wont have been pleasant to lose some possessions 
to water damage and be in a position where he would need to source replacements. 
Ive thought about BGs prompt acceptance of its responsibility to reinstate Mr Rs home, and 
its provision of alternative accommodation during the work. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that BG provided a reasonable solution to minimise the disruption to Mr R and his 
family while the reinstatement work was being done. I cant fairly say its responsible for 
other matters Mr R commented on, such as school grades, which wouldve been outside its 
control. And, as Ive said, BG covered the cost of like for like replacements of damaged 
possessions and provided compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused - a total 
settlement of £7,500. I think thats fair.
In summary, I realise that my decision appears to simplify matters, especially in light of all 
the evidence presented and the distress and inconvenience Mr R and his family mustve 
experienced. However, I think BG accepted its responsibility promptly to minimise further 
inconvenience, and it agreed a £7,500 settlement with Mr R. While he now thinks thats not 
enough, in the absence of any further information to point towards any significant gaps in its 
offer, I see no reason to ask BG to do any more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman