The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 1998, Ms G applied for a credit card. At some point Lloyds also sold Ms G a PPI policy. 
The cost of the PPI was charged to the card, so Ms G would repay this with interest in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms G thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Ms G didn't 
agree with the adjudicator's view. So the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms G's case.
Based on what I've seen, I'm not upholding Ms G's complaint. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Ms G knew she'd been sold the insurance. Ms G says she didn't 
have any idea that she was paying for PPI. She says she never took out PPI because she 
would be covered anyway by her employers. So I've thought about this alongside the other 
information I've seen.
Because of the time that's passed, Lloyds can't now say exactly when PPI was added to the 
account. But that's not unreasonable bearing in mind that the card started in 1998. It also 
appears, based on the statements I've seen, that the PPI was cancelled in May 2000. So the 
PPI was sold at some point between these two dates. 
I've thought about what Ms G said happened. She says she didn't know she was paying for 
PPI. But the statements I've seen show that PPI was listed separately, and it looks as 
though the policy was cancelled in May 2000. So on balance I think it's more likely that she 
did know she'd been sold the PPI  even if she doesn't now remember doing so. As such, 
and given the time that's passed and the very limited information I have about how the policy 
was sold, I can't now say that the PPI was added to the account without Ms G's knowledge 
or consent.
DRN-1110881If Lloyds advised Ms G to buy the PPI, it needed to check it was right for her. And even if it 
didn't advise her to buy the policy, it still needed to give Ms G enough information about the 
policy to let her decide for herself if she wanted to buy the policy. Given there's limited 
information showing how the policy was sold, I've considered both of these.
Based on what Ms G has said about her circumstances, the policy seems to have been right 
for her. Ms G doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover. And though she received some sick pay from her employer, this cover paid out 
in addition to any sick pay she received. It would repay 10% of the outstanding balance for 
up to 12 months if she was off work sick  so for longer than she received full pay from her 
employer.
Equally, though its possible that the information Lloyds gave Ms G about the policy wasn't as 
clear as it should have been I'm not persuaded, given what I've said above, that better 
information would have made a difference to her decision to buy the policy.
I've considered the other points Ms G has raised. But they don't change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold Ms G's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman