DRN-1337256
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed in returning jewellery held in safekeeping to 
him. He wanted to give it to someone who was about to travel overseas. Lloyds delay meant 
he missed the chance to do that. Then it continued to charge him for safekeeping for what 
hed collected. 
What happened
Mr Ss complaint has been brought by a close family member, who acts on his behalf. I will 
refer to Mr S throughout, as this remains his complaint. 
Mr S had jewellery in a safety deposit box with Lloyds, which he said needed to be handed 
to a third party. Mr S wanted to do that himself. He ordered the box, but it didnt arrive on 
time. The box was available a day later, but Mr S said the person he wanted to give the 
jewellery to had left. 
Mr S said the jewellery was too valuable, and too important, to be trusted to a courier 
service, so a family member would have to take it instead. He wanted Lloyds to pay for that.
Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake, and the safety deposit box hadnt been available 
when it expected. It offered to pay Mr S £250 for that if he wanted. It wouldnt pay for Mr Ss 
family member to take the jewellery to its new owner. It would consider covering the cost of 
sending the items by courier, if Mr S sent evidence of that. 
Mr S wrote again some months later to say he was still being charged for the safety deposit 
box after hed collected it. And he hadnt received the offered compensation. He wanted 
Lloyds to refund all the safe custody fees it had charged him.
Lloyds accepted there were problems with what Mr S was charged. It then paid Mr S the 
£250 it had offered in compensation. It refunded safe custody fees that Mr S had been 
overcharged. And it paid £40 in compensation to say sorry for this more recent error. 
Our investigator said the box was delivered a day late, and shed confirmed with Lloyds that 
Mr S was told it was available then. But he hadnt collected it until a few days later. Our 
investigator hadnt been able to establish the value of the items, so she didnt know if they 
could be sent by courier or had to be taken by Mr Ss family member. She also thought it 
wouldve been better if Mr S hadnt ordered the box on the last day to hand it over. 
Considering all the circumstances, she thought Lloyds had been reasonable.
Our investigator also said that Lloyds had repaid the overcharged fees and paid 
compensation, so she thought it had resolved that issue fairly.
Mr Ss representative wrote on his behalf to disagree. The case was passed to me for a final 
decision, and Mr Ss representative then sent further comments. Mr S said his safety deposit box shouldve been available within two working days. Hed 
actually given Lloyds a week before he went to collect it. So Lloyds had already had enough 
time to identify the problem and follow up before he went to collect, but it hadnt done so. 
Mr S might still have been able to collect the box first thing the next day, and get it to its 
intended destination, but it didnt arrive first thing the next day. By the time it did arrive, it was 
too late.  
Mr S then delayed collecting the box, because it wasnt safe to have items of that sort of 
value in his home. He said the items were worth many thousands. That was also why he 
hadnt collected the jewellery long before it was to be handed over.
Mr S said Lloyds had only ever offered to consider the cost of couriering the jewellery. It 
wouldnt commit to paying that cost. Mr S didnt want to incur that cost when Lloyds could 
simply have decided not to pay. 
Mr S also said Lloyds didnt reasonably resolve the charges problem. It failed to act on the 
complaint he raised with Lloyds in mid-September 2019 and then with us in early October 
Mr S said that he was growing older, and running out of time to deliver the jewellery. It was 
very important to him that this be done in his lifetime. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case has involved failings by Lloyds. The mistake which meant Mr Ss safety deposit 
box wasnt available to him when he wanted it, really should have been caught by Lloyds 
staff before he went to collect. I think this caused Mr S considerable distress at the time. So I 
think Lloyds needs to pay compensation for what went wrong then. I think that a payment of 
£250 in compensation for the failures which meant Lloyds didnt retrieve the safety deposit 
box in time, is reasonable.
Lloyds also offered to consider the cost of couriering the jewellery to its new owner. Mr S 
turned that down. Hes made clear to Lloyds and to us that he didnt think this was a 
reasonable alternative, because of its intrinsic and sentimental value. 
Mr S says now that Lloyds only ever offered to consider the cost of a courier. He didnt want 
to incur that cost in case Lloyds then decided not to pay. But that doesnt seem to be what 
Mr S said at the time. I think Lloyds made an offer to Mr S which was potentially a 
reasonable way to solve the problem. I could understand why Mr S would say it wasnt fair 
for Lloyds only to consider costs after they were incurred. But I think Mr S couldve 
discussed a quote from a courier service with Lloyds. 
I think that Mr S didnt talk to Lloyds about using a courier at the time, not because he was 
concerned that Lloyds might not pay and would leave him out of pocket, but because he 
didnt accept that a courier could be a reasonable solution to this problem. And his latest 
comments to us repeat that the jewellery has to be delivered personally as soon as 
practicably possible.
So it still seems to me that Mr S doesnt want a courier to send the jewellery, he still wants 
Lloyds to pay for a family member to travel, and take the items with him. Lloyds has made what I consider to be a reasonable offer to resolve part of this complaint, 
and Mr S has turned that down. So, although I understand that the fact that the jewellery 
hasnt yet been delivered is causing Mr S ongoing distress, I dont think that distress is now 
Lloyds fault. And because of that, I dont think that Lloyds has to do more.
Mr S also thinks Lloyds didnt reasonably resolve the second complaint which he made. That 
complaint deals with charges wrongly applied by Lloyds. Those were shown on a statement 
dated at the end of August. Mr S told us he raised this with Lloyds in mid-September, then 
with us in October. Lloyds wrote to Mr S to reply to his complaint in mid-October. Our service 
allows eight weeks for a complaint response by a business, so this was well within that 
timescale. I dont think thats unreasonable.
Lloyds then refunded the wrongly applied charges and it paid Mr S compensation. I think 
what it did provided a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ss complaint.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman