DRN-4065891
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr B was looking into cryptocurrency and was sent a link to a video about an 
investment company by someone in an internet group he was a member of. He watched the 
video and joined some group chats about the company, before deciding to sign up and 
create an account with them. Someone from the investment company then guided Mr B 
through making payments to his account, and Mr B was given log-in details for his account 
where he could see the balance of his investment.
Ive set out the payments Mr B made to the investment company from his Monzo account 
below:
Date Amount
19 February 2022 £10
19 February 2022 £9,990
20 February 2022 £5,000
20 February 2022 £5,000
21 February 2022 £10,000
22 February 2022 £5,002
24 February 2022 £2,000
25 February 2022 £10,000
26 February 2022 £7,001
Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered when Mr B logged into his account one day, but the chat function 
to speak with the investment company wasnt working. The investment company then also 
didnt respond to his emails or phone calls. Mr B then reported the payments to Monzo as a 
scam and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments. It said it had made the 
payments in line with Mr Bs instructions, and didnt feel he had taken sufficient steps to 
research the company or check who he was paying. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Monzos 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They thought Monzo should have intervened 
before allowing the third payment Mr B made to go through. And that, if it had intervened, the 
scam would have been uncovered and Mr B wouldnt have lost that payment, or any of the 
later payments. So they thought Monzo should refund the money Mr B had lost, from the 
third payment onwards. Monzo disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr B 
accepts he made the payments here. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, he did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that 
Monzo was obliged to follow his instructions and make the payments. So Mr B isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Monzo should have identified that Mr B was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
Monzo has argued that it shouldnt be expected to have identified a risk of fraud here, as 
Mr B had said the account would be used for spending towards cryptocurrencies when he 
opened it  and so the payments were in line with the intended use of the account. But while 
I agree it is reasonable for Monzo to take the stated use of an account into consideration 
when looking at the risk certain payments represent, I dont think a stated use means all 
payments for that purpose cant represent any risk at all. And I still think it should have 
identified a risk as a result of some of the payments Mr B made here.
The first payment Mr B made was for £10, which I dont think is a particularly large amount 
and so I wouldnt expect Monzo to have identified a risk as a result of it. And while the 
second payment of £9,990 was for a significantly larger amount, it was made to a digital 
wallet provider often used for purchasing cryptocurrency. So it was in line with the intended 
use of the account Mr B had given when opening the account. And so I think its reasonable 
that Monzo didnt identify a risk of fraud as a result of this payment either.
But once Mr B tried to make the third payment, for £5,000, I think Monzo should have 
identified a risk. This payment was also for what I consider to be a significant amount. And at 
this point Mr B had made three payments in just two days to the digital wallet provider, 
totalling a considerable amount of money  which matches a pattern of payments often seen 
in scam cases. So even though Mr B appeared to be spending on cryptocurrency as he had 
intended to do so, I think the other circumstances here mean Monzo should still have 
identified that he was at risk of financial harm from fraud. And so I think it should have 
intervened to carry out additional checks before allowing this payment to go through.Its not for our service to dictate the checks Monzo should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the investments Mr B thought he was making.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B would have lied or tried to mislead Monzo if he was 
asked about the payment. So I think its likely he would have told Monzo the payment was 
for an investment he was making. I think Monzo should then have asked further questions 
about the investment, such as what he was investing in, where he had found out about the 
investment and whether anyone was helping him with it. And I think Mr B would then have 
said he was investing in cryptocurrency, had found out about the investment company online 
and was being guided through making the payments by someone from the company. And as 
this fits the pattern of common cryptocurrency investment scams, I think Monzo should then 
have warned him that he was likely the victim of a scam.
If Monzo had warned Mr B that his circumstances fitted the pattern of common 
cryptocurrency investment scams, and given him some advice on how to avoid scams such 
as trying to withdraw all his funds or checking the company was registered with the FCA, I 
think he would have realised that this was likely a scam and wouldnt have made any further 
payments.
So if Monzo had done more to try to protect Mr B, as I think it should have, I dont think he 
would have made this third payment or any of the later payments. And so I think Monzo 
should therefore refund the money he lost as a result of the scam, from the third payment 
onwards. As Mr B has now been without this money for a period of time, I think Monzo 
should also pay him compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of 
the payments until the date they are refunded.
Ive also considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility for the loss he suffered, 
but I dont think it would be fair for him to do so. This was a sophisticated scam where the 
scammers had set up a legitimate looking website and a trading platform Mr B could log-in to 
and check his account. Mr B has said they were also posting regular videos on social media 
websites about suggested trade activity and were active on group chats involving many 
members. And the fake investment company had been registered on a foreign countrys 
company register, which Mr B was shown before making any payments. So I dont think it 
would be fair to say Mr B acted unreasonably or negligently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr B the money he lost, from the third payment onwards  totalling £44,003
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payments until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman