DRN-3116254
The complaint
H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt close its accounts when requested 
which resulted in it being pursued for fees and charges that had accrued on the accounts.
H is represented in bringing this complaint by its owner, Mr H.
What happened
Mr H asked RBS to close Hs accounts in August 2019. Mr H provided the correct paperwork 
for the accounts to be closed but RBS did not take the required action and the accounts 
remained open. 
While the accounts remained open, banking charges began to accrue which led to RBS 
contacting Mr H on several occasions asking for payment of the outstanding balance. Mr H 
continuously asked for the accounts to be closed however RBS did not close the accounts 
and continued to request payment of the outstanding balance with the threat of legal action 
increasing over time. 
Throughout this period, Mr H also received emails offering financial incentives if H decided to 
switch banks. Mr H made several applications for these incentives but never heard anything 
more about them.
Mr H complained to RBS in January 2020. RBS apologised for the errors and refunded all 
charges that had been applied to the accounts. The accounts were closed in March 2020.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into matters and said he thought RBS had acted fairly as they had 
apologised for their errors and had refunded the charges that had been applied to the 
accounts. He explained that RBS had effectively put H back in the position it wouldve been 
in had the accounts been closed at the time of the original request in August 2019. 
Our investigator also explained that RBS were not responsible for making any switching 
incentive payment. He said this would have been paid to H by a third-party company on 
behalf of Hs new bank once the switch was complete and only if H was eligible to receive it.  
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. Mr H said he found 
the aggressive nature and legal threats that RBS used to be unacceptable and thought 
someone of less character might have paid RBS out of fear. 
Mr H said the persistent emails offering financial incentives inflamed the situation. He would 
like appropriate action to be taken against RBS and compensation paid to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused him and his business.
Following an initial review of the complaint, it was clear to me that all parties agreed that 
RBS had made an error by not closing the accounts. So I contacted both parties to see if this 
matter could be resolved informally.
RBS responded with an offer to pay £150 to Mr H to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
their error had caused. Mr H didnt accept this offer and asked me to proceed with issuing a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think RBS offer to pay £150 to Mr H is fair and Ive explained my reasons 
below.
Firstly, Id like to point out that the role of our service isnt to punish financial businesses for 
any errors theyve made. Our role is to put the complainant back into the position they would 
have been in had the error not occurred and to consider appropriate compensation awards 
for any financial or non-financial losses. 
RBS has acknowledged their error in not closing the accounts at the time of the initial 
request. They have apologised to Mr H and refunded any charges applied to the accounts 
and I can see that H is now back in the position it wouldve been in had the accounts closed 
in August 2019. So Ive looked at the impact of what happened to decide if I think the offer 
made by RBS to recognise the distress and inconvenience they caused is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H was inconvenienced in a number of ways by RBS error. Mr H had to 
make numerous phone calls, chase responses from the bank, fill in forms for incentives he 
believed the business was entitled to and send numerous emails to try and resolve the 
matter. In addition, I have no doubt that the threat of legal action would have been 
distressing for Mr H particularly when he knew he had done nothing wrong.
I understand the emails about the incentivised switching scheme that were sent to Mr H 
caused him further inconvenience as he made several applications which he never heard 
any more about. And Mr H told us he expected to receive an incentive payment for switching 
Hs accounts away from RBS. 
Although RBS provided the information for this scheme, they were not responsible for 
making the incentive payment. This is done by a third-party company on behalf of the new 
bank once the switch is complete and assuming all relevant criteria has been met by the 
business switching its accounts. It therefore wouldnt be fair for me to hold RBS responsible 
for H not receiving an incentive payment for moving its accounts. However, I do recognise 
the frustration and added inconvenience receiving these emails would have caused. 
Having taken everything into consideration, I think RBS error in not closing the accounts 
when the original request was made caused Mr H some inconvenience as he had to spend 
time trying to sort everything out. There was also the distress of receiving letters threatening 
legal action if the fees and charges were not cleared. However, there was no financial loss to 
the business and all charges that were applied to the accounts have since been refunded. 
As such, I think RBS offer of £150 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
£150 to H to resolve the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman