DRN-3585845
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his motor insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in respect of 
a settlement it made for another drivers losses after an incident occurred between the other 
driver and his car. At the time of the accident Mr Ws car was being driven by his wife who 
wasnt insured.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr Ws wife was not insured to drive his car. But she did and was involved 
in an incident with another driver, with damage being caused to both cars. Esure handled the 
claim made to it by the other drivers insurer as road traffic legislation requires it to. Esure felt 
Mrs W was likely 50% liable for the claim and it settled on that basis for damage to the other 
drivers car and hire car charges. It asked Mr W to reimburse its outlay of £5,716.22.
Mr W felt it was unfair that Mrs W was being held liable for the crash. He also felt the costs 
paid by Esure were unreasonably high. He felt it hadnt sought to look after his interests 
when settling the claim. Mr W felt the other driver shouldnt have been given a hire car and 
noted that it had taken a while for repairs to be considered to the other car. So he felt the 
period over which the hire car had been provided was unreasonable. He felt Esure should 
have challenged the other insurer. When Esure wouldnt agree to review what it had asked 
Mr W to pay, he complained to us.
Our investigator said it isnt for this service to decide liability for an accident. He felt Esure 
had handled the claim from the other driver reasonably. Mr W said he felt many of his 
concerns had gone unanswered and asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
Mr Ws complaint was passed to me. I felt Esure had made reasonable efforts to limit the 
claim outlay. But I felt my reasoning for this needed to be shared with both parties before 
making a final decision. So I issued a provisional decision, the findings of which were:
I understand that Mr W is frustrated with what he perceives as Esures inaction and failure 
to challenge the other drivers insurer over the claim. But I need to explain that an insurer  
whether looking at a claim in respect of an insured or uninsured driver of its car, would only 
be expected by this service to risk going to court to defend its position if the prospects for 
success were good. Unfortunately that means that often insurers will make settlements and 
agreements about claims which might feel unfair to the policyholder. But the fact is that if the 
insurer is not going to take matters to court then they can only settle on the best terms 
possible. That doesnt mean they shouldnt challenge anything put to them  but it does 
mean there will likely be a limit to how far they can challenge before they concede and make 
an agreement to settle matters.
Having considered Esures file I can see that it initially told the other insurer that it was 
holding their driver at fault for the loss. And Esure maintained that position for quite some 
time. But the other insurer held completely the opposite view and seemingly the other 
drivers account of the accident differed to Mrs Ws. There was no cctv evidence available 
and no independent witnesses to say what might have happened. And the damage on the 
cars wasnt helpful in determining this either. In July 2019 the other insurer offered to settle 
matters on a 50/50 split liability basis and Esure agreed. I dont think that was unreasonable 
in the circumstances.
The settlement Esure paid was £5,716.22. This is made up of £3,399.45 of repair costs and 
£2,316.78 of hire costs (including £113 for recovery which had totalled £216.00). 
Esure was given the total repair price for the other drivers car. That was £6,798.99. Esure 
didnt initially question this. Ideally it would have done but when Mr W questioned it, it did 
make enquiries with the other insurer and it had its engineer review the damage report. The 
engineer felt the method of repair was reasonable and that the area of damage was 
consistent with the reports of how the cars came together. He noted though that further 
details would be needed to evidence the damage subject of the repair. I see Esure tried 
several times to gather this detail from the other insurer, but it wasnt forthcoming. Esure 
then settled the claim as agreed at 50% of the total repair cost. 
I can understand Esure doing this  it had tried to gather everything to make totally sure the 
full cost of repair was warranted but hadnt been given that information. Esure then had to 
make a risk based decision about continuing to challenge the other insurer. Doing so might 
incur further costs, ultimately increasing its outlay and may result in no gain. I say that as 
most insurers would not agree to unnecessary repairs. So I think the likelihood of the car not 
having been damage such that the reported repairs were needed was slim. And that 
reasonably had to be set in the light of what the engineer had already found  that the repair 
method was reasonable and the area of damage was consistent. Meaning that the costs had 
otherwise been verified. I think it was reasonable for Esure to settle based on 50% of the full 
costs rather than challenge the other insurer further.
In respect of the hire costs I see that Esure did challenge them from the start. Although not 
entirely in the way Mr W thinks it should have done. Mr W thinks that the other driver 
shouldnt have been given a hire car due to their personal circumstances. Whilst I can 
understand why Mr W might think that, I think its important to remember that, as with the 
other aspects of this claim, Esure had limited scope for challenging the hire costs. For 
example, it didnt enter into the hire agreement with the other driver and it ultimately felt the 
claim couldnt successfully be challenged in court.
However, I note that Esure didnt just agree to the costs initially submitted for hire. Just as 
Mr W has raised concerns about the assessment and repair of the car not being progressed 
swiftly enough, Esure, even before costs for hire were put to it, challenged the other insurer 
on exactly these grounds. Esure told the other insurer it was taking too long whilst, because 
the other car was unroadworthy, hire costs were accruing. So when the other insurer put 
forward their request for hire costs, Esure disputed them on the basis of the period the hire 
was provided over. Ultimately Esures challenge resulted in the other insurer agreeing to 
settle for a lower amount than claimed for  meaning that for a portion of the accrued hire 
costs, it didnt receive any payment from Esure at all. Overall I think Esure acted reasonably. 
Finally on the issue of hire costs I know Mr W thinks the maximum hire period should have 
reflected the labour claimed for in the repair report  14 hours. However, it isnt unusual in 
insurance claims for there to be a period during which a car has to wait to be collected for 
repairs and/or wait whilst the insurer assesses the claim and authorises the work. I can also 
see here that once the other insurer authorised the repairs, parts had to be ordered. Once 
the parts arrived the repairs were completed in 6 working days. I bear in mind that the parts 
arriving doesnt necessarily mean work will start the same day and a car might not be 
worked on in isolation. So the hours billed for labour will not necessarily equate to the total 
time a car remains at a garage for repair, or the total period for which the driver of that car 
might need a hire car.I understand why Mr W has felt unfairly treated by Esure  the correspondence Ive seen 
from Esure has not been that detailed. And Mr W hasnt, as I have, had the benefit of seeing 
what Esure did behind the scenes whilst settling this matter. From Mr Ws perspective 
I expect it very much must have seemed as though Esure was sent a figure by the other 
party, which it then paid without question. I can assure Mr W that is not the case. And I can 
also assure him that, from everything Ive seen, I think Esure acted no differently here than it 
would have done if it had been handling a claim under the policy  where it would have 
borne all the costs. Having carefully looked at what happened, and bearing in mind the 
limitations Ive explained Esure was working within, I do think it acted fairly and reasonably 
to limit its (and therefore Mr Ws) outlay. 
Esure didnt respond. Mr W disagreed with my findings. 
Mr W said he still felt Esure hadnt shown what investigations it carried out before accepting 
a 50/50 settlement and that it had handled this claim very poorly. He thinks it didnt 
investigate the circumcentres, make adequate checks about the repairs, or chase the other 
insurer enough. He feels there are still a lot of unanswered questions. Mr W thinks its unfair 
for him to be left paying for repairs which Esure hadnt fully verified, merely because it gave 
up when its enquiries went unanswered. Regarding the hire costs, Mr W reiterated that he 
had sent Esure case law which it could have used to challenge the costs claimed and its still 
unclear to him why this wasnt pursued, or why Esure felt it wouldnt have been successful in 
doing so. He said the period for repair was still in question and the hire period should have 
been ten days at most.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr W is frustrated about this and feels let down by Esure. But I have to bear in 
mind here that Esure wasnt handling the claim made by the other driver, that was done by 
the other drivers insurer. Esure had no control over the other drivers insurer. All Esure 
could do was chase the other insurer, challenge it where appropriate and make its own 
enquiries. But all of that action was tempered by the fact of the limitations I explained 
provisionally  unless the prospects for defending the claim (as a whole) in court were good, 
Esure would need to settle on the best terms.
Ive explained why I felt it settling on a 50/50 basis was reasonable here, and I remain of that 
view. I dont think it completing further investigations into the circumstances, or pushing for 
further detail in respect of repairs would likely have provided strong enough evidence to 
improve the chance of a successful outcome if the claim was allowed to progress to court. 
And continued and repeated challenges, on any aspects of the claim, would always run the 
risk of any agreement on settlement being withdrawn. So Esure had to weigh up the risk 
against the possible likely benefit and decide how reasonably it was best to progress 
matters. I think, overall, its decision to settle as it did, for the periods and to the values it did, 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr W, my view on his complaint has 
not changed. As such, my provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman