DRN-2965759
The complaint
Ms T, Mr T and Mrs T complained that Admiral unfairly cancelled their motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms T, Mr T and Mrs T had asked Admiral to renew their multi-car insurance policy. But after 
Admiral couldnt collect the premium payment because the card provider declined it, Admiral  
warned them they might cancel the policy because of non-payment, and then did cancel it. 
Admiral wouldnt reinstate that policy and quoted them a much higher premium to insure 
them under a new policy, because of the cancellation. 
Ms T, Mr T and Mrs T didnt think this was fair. They wanted Admiral to honour the original 
policy and premium and change their payment process and how they communicated with 
their customers about card issues. Admiral didnt agree so brought their complaint to us, via 
Mr T, and so for ease Ill often refer here to him, rather than all three.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to cancel their policy in the circumstances and theyd 
complied with their terms in doing so and given Ms T, Mr T and Mrs T fair warning. Ms T, Mr 
T and Mrs T didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at Admirals file and see that after the card payer declined the premium payment 
Admiral sent Ms T, Mr T and Mrs T an email warning that theyd have to cancel the policy if 
they didnt pay the premium within 7 days. When they didnt reply Admiral sent them all a 
letter giving them 7 days warning notice of cancellation if they didnt pay the premium by a 
particular date. When they still didnt pay the premium, Admiral cancelled the policy from 14 
March. Admiral said this was in line with their policy terms.
Mr T said as follows. Admiral should have taken the premium payment over the phone right 
away when he called to renew the policy. Taking it later was a wrong and dangerous 
process which left them unknowingly uninsured. Admiral should change their process to 
prevent that happening to other consumers. It must have been possible for Admiral to take 
the premium then over the phone, because when Mr T tried to reinstate the policy later, 
theyd taken payment that way for the time hed been insured under the first policy. 
But, as the investigator has explained, we cant tell any business how to conduct their 
business process, as that isnt our role. And we can only look at the facts of any individual 
case, and the impact on Mr T and the others. So I cant say that Admiral should have taken 
payment for the premium immediately over the phone. 
Mr T also thought that Admiral must have realised that non-payment of the premium was 
accidental and that he and the others wouldnt have wanted to be uninsured. So he felt that 
when Admiral couldnt collect the payment they should have phoned or texted him and given 
him the chance to sort it out immediately. Admiral said it wasnt their process to phone or 
text about cancellation and their emails and letters had been enough, as they followed what 
their policy said about cancellation, which was to send seven days' notice in writing to the 
consumers last known address.
Mr T said  I do not accept email as a solid form of communication, less so letters when it 
comes to important matters such as an issue with ..people being legally insured . But Ms T, 
Mr T and Mrs T havent denied receiving the emails and letters. Mr T said that he and the 
others just assumed that Admirals letters were renewal documents and didnt open them. 
And it was only when they did open them on about 26 March, they realised that the policy 
had already been cancelled. He felt that Admiral were hiding behind their policy terms and 
they should not assume that letters were received or opened by their customers. But I think 
that is reasonable for Admiral to have assumed that, and I dont think Admiral can be blamed 
for customers not opening emails or reading letters. 
I do see that Mr T is very frustrated by what he sees as a minor problem that Admiral could 
have easily resolved, but our role is to consider whether Admiral have followed their own 
procedures and have been reasonable in doing so. As the investigator explained, the policy 
entitled Admiral to cancel in writing for non-payment of premium. Because of the significant 
adverse consequences of cancellation, we think its reasonable for a business to use at least 
two types of communication to warn of the risk of that. Admiral have shown that they did 
that. They gave two adequate warnings using emails and letters and Ms T, Mr T and Mrs 
havent denied receiving these. So I think what Admiral did was enough and I cant say that 
they should have done more. 
Mr T also didnt think they should have to pay more than the original premium to take out a 
new policy after the cancellation. However future insurers will usually ask if a policyholder 
has had a previous policy cancelled - its a standard question in insurance applications. This 
can cause an increase in a consumers future insurance premiums because insurers may 
see such a consumer as presenting an increased risk. We dont think thats unreasonable, 
and its a matter for an insurers commercial judgement and not something we interfere with. 
So I cant say that Admiral were wrong to charge more than the first policy, given that it had 
been cancelled for non-payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T, Mr T and Mr  
T to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
