DRN-2954867
The complaint
Mr J complains about Revolut Ltds decision to close his account and return the money left in 
it to the original source.
What happened
In March 2021, Revolut carried out a review on Mr Js account. A few days later, they made 
the decision to close Mr Js account  and returned the money left in it to its original source.
Mr J said this money belonged to him and wanted it back. He said not having access to his 
money caused financial difficulty and he had to borrow money to pay bills.
Mr J brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Revolut had done 
anything wrong. He explained that Mr J hadnt proved his entitlement to the money which 
was in his account, so he thought it was reasonable Revolut sent it back to its original 
source. Mr J also complained that Revolut had told him the money had been returned to one 
individual, but the details they provided dont match.
Our investigators opinion didnt change, and Mr J remained unhappy. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when they blocked and reviewed Mr Js account. And they 
were entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. They werent obliged to tell 
Mr J why they were carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me 
to require them to do so. 
Revolut was also within their rights to close Mr Js account and did so in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong 
when they closed Mr Js account. 
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that hes unhappy Revolut returned money paid into his 
account to source  in other words they sent the money back to where it originally came 
from. Mr J says the money paid into the account was his savings which he got from wages. 
Mr J provided our service with some documentation to show he was entitled to the money.
Ive looked at the paperwork Mr J has provided along with the information provided by 
Revolut about the funds. Its important to note, some of the information Revolut has sent us 
is information we think should be kept confidential. That means, I cant share it with Mr J  
and our rules allow us to do that. But having considered all of the evidence Ive received, Im 
not satisfied that Mr J is the rightful owner of the money which was left in the account. And, 
in the full circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Revolut took the appropriate action 
when returning the money to source.
Im aware Mr J is also concerned about where the money was returned to. He says Revolut 
told him the money would be returned in chronological order of when they came in. But Mr J 
has shown that the bank details dont match with the last individual to pay into his account. I 
appreciate Mr Js concern around this, but I dont think its entirely relevant to the outcome of 
the complaint. I say that because, Revolut arent obliged to tell Mr J specifically where they 
have sent the funds. Theyve returned them to the original source, which I find to be 
reasonable. I appreciate Mr J feels he is owed this money  however based on the evidence 
provided, I cant reasonably agree that he is. And therefore, I cant fairly hold Revolut 
responsible for Mr J locating money from a third party.   
In summary, Revolut carried out a review on Mr Js account as theyre entitled to do  as 
part of that review, they decided to close the account and returned the money in the account 
back to source. Based on the full circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive 
received from both parties, Im satisfied Revoluts actions are fair. So, it follows that I wont 
be asking Revolut to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman