DRN-3016997
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B are unhappy with the service they received from Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc (D&GI) after they made a claim on their appliance insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs and Mr B had an appliance insurance policy underwritten by D&GI. When their fridge 
became damaged they contacted their insurer. But the lock-down was causing significant 
delays in sourcing replacement parts. So Mrs and Mr B said they were offered a like for like 
replacement. 
When the replacement fridge arrived Mrs and Mr B discovered it didnt have the same 
internal space as their old fridge. And they couldnt fit everything they wanted into the new 
model. So they want a replacement that has the same internal capacity.
D&GI apologised for the problems with the delivery of the replacement model and the long 
call queues Mrs B had experienced.  It couldnt provide Mrs and Mr B with something that 
was no longer manufactured. And itd been advised fridges with a height of 186cm now had 
a slightly reduced capacity to make them more energy efficient. 
D&GI said it was sorry Mrs and Mr B were unhappy with the service theyd received. And itd 
paid a total of £150 compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr B had experienced. 
D&GI said the new appliance had been delivered and it couldnt replace a product thatd now 
been used. 
Mrs and Mr B werent satisfied with D&GIs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. D&GI had explained the manufacturer no long made the 
original fridge. So she looked at whether the replacements offered were similar enough to be 
in line with the appliance insurance terms. 
Our investigator could see Mrs B had been quite specific about the size requirements 
needed for her family. But it wouldnt have been possible to get a replacement fridge with the 
capacity Mrs B wanted as they were now being made with thicker walls. So she felt D&GI 
had offered reasonable replacement options in the circumstances.
Although the manufacturer had given slightly incorrect information to Mrs B when shed 
called about the replacement, she couldnt hold D&GI responsible for that. And she felt itd 
acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when offering the replacements. So she 
couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr B didnt agree. If theyd known the correct capacity of the fridge they were 
replacing theyd have never accepted the offer. They feel cheated by D&GI and unhappy 
with how their claim has been resolved. And theyve asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this has been for Mrs and Mr B. They needed a fully 
functioning fridge for their family. But they dont feel D&GI has provided a very good service 
when trying to put things right. Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened and 
whether D&GI acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the appliance insurance 
policy. But Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Mrs and Mr Bs appliance insurance policy provides cover for electric appliances and 
household goods against breakdown and accidental damage. In some situations, such as 
when the item cant be repaired, the policy will arrange to replace the product with the same 
or a similar model.
When Mrs and Mr B reported the problem with their fridge D&GI were unable to obtain all of 
the replacement parts in the normal timeframe. Mrs and Mr B were unhappy with the impact 
that was having. So D&GI offered to arrange a replacement fridge rather than ask them to 
wait any longer. And I think that was a reasonable response in the circumstances.
  
Unfortunately the original fridge was no longer being made by the manufacturer. So D&GI 
couldnt provide an exact replacement. Instead it sent Mrs and Mr B an email link showing a 
number of suggested replacement models of a similar specification and value to choose 
from.
I think D&GI acted fairly and within the terms of the policy in doing so. It couldnt replace 
Mrs and Mr Bs fridge with the same model. And when this happens the appliance insurance 
policy provides cover for a replacement of the same or similar make and technical 
specification.
I realise Mrs and Mr B expected a fridge of the same size to have the same capacity. But 
unfortunately manufacturers have had to reduce the internal space slightly because the 
appliance walls have been made thicker to increase energy efficient. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest D&GI told Mrs and Mr B the replacement would have exactly the same 
capacity  they were sent a link with a number of alternatives to look at and choose from 
themselves.
Appliances such as fridges often come in standard heights so they fit within kitchen units or 
below work surfaces. And due to the increased energy saving requirements the 
manufacturer isnt able to make a fridge of the same internal capacity in that height any 
more. As a result the replacement fridge Mrs and Mr B received had a capacity of 346 litres 
compared to their old fridges 355 litres.
 
I know the capacity was something Mrs and Mr B felt strongly about when choosing a 
replacement. When Mrs B queried this with the manufacturer I understand they were given 
incorrect information and this wouldve added to the confusion. But thats not something I 
can really hold D&GI responsible for. 
D&GI provided links to a number of similar fridges for Mrs and Mr B to look at and choose 
from. But it wasnt responsible for any information provided by the manufacturer. And it was 
up to Mrs and Mr B to look at the various models and decide which was most suitable. So I 
dont think it would be fair to expect D&GI to take the replacement back.  
I do understand Mrs and Mr Bs frustration. The replacement isnt the same as the one they 
were used to. And theyre disappointed it cant hold quite as much as the previous model. But I think D&GI did all it could to try and help Mrs and Mr B deal with their claim in a timely 
manner. It couldnt get replacement parts and the model had been discontinued. So D&GI 
offered to pay for a new model of a similar specification. And it gave Mrs and Mr B a 
selection to look at and decide from. Mrs and Mr B now have a new fridge that, although 
slightly smaller in capacity, should be more energy efficient and have a longer lifespan.
I can see D&GI has paid Mrs and Mr B a total of £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyve been put through with delivery problems and delays on the telephone. And I 
think thats a reasonable response. But I think D&GI acted fairly and within the terms and 
conditions of the appliance insurance policy in providing suitable options for replacing the 
damaged item. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman