DRN-3698643
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold them a reviewable whole of life 
policy in 1992.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C met with a representative of a company that has now been acquired by 
Phoenix Life and were recommended a joint life reviewable whole of life policy. The initial life 
cover, payable on first death, was £70,000 and the original premium was £25.00 per month. 
Mrs C and Mr C received several policy review letters telling them the premium and cover 
would remain unchanged, but in 2021 Phoenix Life told them the premium must increase to 
£76.22 per month in order to maintain the level of cover. Phoenix Life provided an option to 
keep the premium at £25.00 per month and reduce the cover to £30,748. 
Mrs C and Mr C complained to Phoenix Life that at the time of the sale they hadnt been told 
the premium and life cover were reviewable. Phoenix Life told Mrs C and Mr C that it thought 
the policy documents made it clear the premiums and life cover were reviewable and that 
there was nothing to suggest the premiums and life cover were guaranteed beyond the first 
ten years of the policy. But as Phoenix Life had concerns about whether a reviewable policy 
was suitable for Mrs C and Mr C at the time, it offered to:
Option 1
Set up a new joint life whole of life policy, on a non-reviewable basis, for a monthly premium 
of £25 to replace the existing policy. This would provide a guaranteed level of life cover of 
£28,215 which would become payable on the first death of either life assured. If Mrs C and 
Mr C chose this option, Phoenix would send a cheque for the surrender value on 15 
November 2021 on the existing policy.
or,
Option 2
Set up a new joint life whole of life policy, on a non-reviewable basis, for a monthly premium 
of £60.10. This would replace the existing policy and provide a guaranteed level of life cover 
of £70,000 which would become payable on the first death of either life assured.
Mrs C and Mr C didnt accept either of the offers from Phoenix Life and brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
and thought it was likely the reviewable nature of the policy meant it was unsuitable at the 
time, but that the offers made Phoenix Life were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree with the Investigator and thought that Phoenix Life should 
honour the level of cover and premium they committed to at the start of the policy. Mrs C and 
Mr C asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix Life has already told Mrs C and Mr C they thought it likely the policy had been mis-
sold. It said that whilst the policy may have provided the level of cover Mrs C and Mr C 
needed when it was sold, it didnt feel the adviser took into account that if the premiums 
increased significantly what the impact would be on the ability of Mrs C and Mr C to continue 
to pay the premiums over the longer term. So, I dont need to consider whether the policy 
was mis-sold, instead I will consider whether what Phoenix Life have offered to do to put 
things right is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C and Mr C have made it clear that they wish for the level of cover to remain at £70,000, 
but they feel the cost should remain at £25 per month. It seems more likely than not that 
keeping life cover at £70,000 is a key factor for Mrs C and Mr C, and that there is no specific 
date when they wish the cover to end. So, Im satisfied that the offer Phoenix Life made to 
reconstruct the policy, rather than look to put in place a policy with a fixed term, is a fair and 
reasonable one in these circumstances.
Im mindful that the policy with Phoenix Life has provided Mrs C and Mr C with £70,000 life 
cover at £25 per month for 30 years. But, I consider it would be unfair and unreasonable for 
me to consider telling Phoenix Life it must provide £70,000 of life cover at £25 per month 
until Mrs C or Mr C died, as the cost of this level of cover would now be much higher. 
Instead, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life acted reasonably by looking back to the start of the 
policy and thinking about what is more likely to have happened if it had made it clearer to 
Mrs C and Mr C that the life cover and premiums were reviewable. 
The crux of the complaint made by Mrs C and Mr C is that the policy was a reviewable whole 
of life plan and they werent expecting it to be. So, I think its reasonable that Phoenix Life 
considered the cost of a non-reviewable whole of life plan at the time as a suitable option for 
Mrs C and Mr C. Ive carefully considered the options Phoenix Life gave Mrs C and Mr C 
and, in the circumstances, Ive decided that both are fair and reasonable. Of course, I cant 
provide any advice to Mrs C and Mr C about what offer to choose as they will need to select 
the offer that best suits them now. I would therefore suggest to Mrs C and Mr C that they 
may want to take independent advice on the matter, to help them establish which may be the 
best option for them in their current circumstances.
My final decision
Ive decided Phoenix Life Limited has already made a fair and reasonable offer to settle the 
complaint. Mrs C and Mr C should contact Phoenix Life Limited directly if they now wish to 
accept either of the two options provided. Ive decided that Phoenix Life Limited should then 
settle the complaint using the option chosen by Mrs C and Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman