DRN-3455771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Noble James Associates Limited recommended a mortgage 
that was unsuitable for them.
What happened
In 2019, Noble James recommended that Mr and Mrs S should remortgage to a five year 
fixed rate with their existing lender. The mortgage had an early repayment charge (ERC) if it 
was repaid on or before 31 December 2024.
Mr and Mrs S complain that the mortgage recommended by Noble James was unsuitable 
for them. They said they told Noble James that it was their intention to move to a larger 
home in the short term. So a mortgage with an ERC wasnt suitable for them. Mr and Mrs S 
said that the ERC wasnt highlighted to them and it restricted their options when the moved 
home. They said they could have arranged more competitive terms with another lender, 
they could find a lender who accepted all of their circumstances, including any policies 
regarding acceptable properties.
Noble James said that it gave Mr and Mrs S information about the recommended mortgage, 
including that it was portable subject to their circumstances and the lenders criteria. It said 
that Mr and Mrs S had signed documentation that they had understood the implications of 
taking further borrowing with their existing lender.
I issued a provisional decision proposing to uphold the complaint. My provisional findings 
(which form part of this decision) were:
Noble James was giving Mr and Mrs S mortgage advice. That doesnt mean it should 
necessarily just give Mr and Mrs S what they wanted. Rather it should gather sufficient 
information about their needs and circumstances  and recommend a mortgage that was 
suitable for them based on the information provided to it.
Noble James also had a duty to give Mr and Mrs S clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the mortgage. That meant giving them a balanced explanation of the 
pros and cons of the mortgage it was recommending, tailored to their particular 
circumstances.
We also have a MORTGAGE ENQUIRY FORM. It states that Mr and Mrs S wish to keep 
£50k back or more for moving costs/stamp duty and improvements to new home.
In an email from Mr S to Noble James on 2 December 2019, he said:
With our current mortgage up for renewal on 1st January, it would be good to know 
whether we should renew this and port it, or whether it would be better to hold off until we 
move and do it in one lump (I think thats how it works) .
I cant see that Noble James ever specifically answered that question, other 
than recommending a fixed rate.
On 18 December 2019, Noble James sent Mr and Mrs S a mortgage report. It said, as 
is relevant:
At a meeting it completed a detailed questionnaire to understand Mr and Mrs Ss 
needs and objectives.
Both fixed and variable rates were discussed. A five year fixed rate has been selected 
as most suitable to their requirements.
The mortgage is portable which means if [Mr and Mrs S] move house [they] can 
transfer the mortgage to [their] new home[they] should be aware that transferring 
your mortgage terms will usually be subject to your own circumstances and the 
lenders criteria at the time.
An ERC is payable if the mortgage is repaid early.
Mr and Mrs S signed to acknowledge they had received the report.
There are no recordings available of the phone conversations that Noble James had with 
Mr and Mrs S.
Based on the evidence I have, I dont consider that Noble James did enough to gather all 
of the information it needed to understand Mr and Mrs Ss needs and circumstances. As 
far as I can see there is no detailed questionnaire completed about their needs and 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S have provided clear, consistent and persuasive account that they told 
Noble James that they intended to move home in the short term. That is supported by the 
information recorded on the enquiry form. I consider it likely, on balance, that Mr and Mrs 
S told Noble James they intended to move home. They have also said that it was 
important to them that they had flexibility in the lenders criteria and the interest rates 
available to them.
I dont consider the evidence we have supports that Noble James took adequate steps 
to record accurately and thoroughly what Mr and Mrs Ss needs and circumstances 
were. Further, it is not clear from the documents provided that sufficient weight was 
placed on their needs and circumstances (particularly their intention to move home in 
the short term) in either recommending the fixed rate mortgage it did or in the 
information it gave them.
I say that as the relevant paperwork has not been properly updated to reflect Mr and Mrs 
Ss needs and circumstances or to demonstrate that appropriate warnings and 
explanations were given.
The mortgage report does not mention that Mr and Mrs S intended to move house or why 
a fixed rate with an ERC was the right thing for them in those particular circumstances. 
This was an important factor in the advice. I dont see how a broker acting reasonably 
would not have commented on that or explained why a fixed rate with an ERC was the 
right thing, while setting out all of the potential risks.
The letter does set out that the mortgage was portable subject to lending criteria. But this 
is a generic warning  I think this ought to have been highlighted and expanded upon 
bearing in mind the potential risks to Mr and Mrs S if they could not have ported their mortgage. I consider that would have been reasonable in the circumstances here so that 
Mr and Mrs S could make an informed choice what to do.
Overall I dont consider that Noble James has demonstrated that it acted fairly or 
reasonably. It was the expert here and it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs S as consumers 
to rely on the advice they received. The fact they signed paperwork accepting the terms of 
the mortgage does not remove Noble James responsibility for the advice it gave. I accept 
that Noble James might not have anticipated the pandemic or that lenders might change 
their criteria because of it. But there have been unexpected events in the past that have 
caused lenders to tighten their lending criteria. So it was always a possibility  and I have 
found Noble James did not place sufficient weight on that or the other potential downsides 
in tying into a fixed rate with an ERC shortly before moving home, bearing in mind what it 
knew (or ought to have known) about Mr and Mrs Ss needs and circumstances.
Putting things right
The starting point here is to put Mr and Mrs S back in the position they would have been 
in had they received the correct advice.
The options available for Noble James to recommend to Mr and Mrs S were:
Recommend the fixed rate it did of 1.69% fixed until 31 December 2024, with a fee 
of £999. The risk was that Mr and Mrs S would be tied into a fixed rate and might 
have to pay an ERC if they could not port. Total interest payable over five years 
would be
£22,080.
Recommend a flexible fixed rate of 1.79% fixed until 31 December 2024, with a fee 
of £499. The lender has confirmed this interest rate product was available to 
intermediaries at the time in question. Total interest payable over five years would be 
£23,340.
I asked Noble James why it recommended the interest rate with the ERC when there was 
a fixed rate available without an ERC. It said:
The ERC product advised were cheaper than those without ERC. The client opted for 
the lowest interest rate payable as the ERC was not of concern due to the mortgage 
being ported if the possibility if a move arose.
I dont consider the evidence we have supports that Mr and Mrs S wanted the lowest 
interest rate possible. In any event that had to be balanced against their objective to move 
home and their overall objectives. The difference in total cost over the five years fixed was 
£760, taking into account the difference in product fees ((£23,340  £22,080) - (£999-
£499)). So Mr and Mrs S would save that amount over the full five years.
If Noble James had acted fairly, it ought to have explained there were two products that 
met Mr and Mrs Ss needs:
1. A fixed rate of 1.69% with an ERC. It was portable providing that they met the 
lenders criteria at the time in question  but that can change and there may be 
circumstances where the lender wont offer any other borrowing. So there is a 
potential risk that Mr and Mrs S might have to pay the ERC is the lender wont lend 
to them. They will also only be able to choose from the lender range of products for 
any additional borrowing, rather than the whole market.2. A fixed rate of 1.79%. Over the five years it was £760 more expensive. But there 
was no ERC  so Mr and Mrs S would have been able to explore the market for a 
new rate. But that rate would not necessarily be lower than the interest rate they 
had or offered by their existing lender.
So if that had been explained to them, the question is: was the flexibility of the second 
fixed rate more important to Mr and Mrs S than the money they could save on the first 
fixed rate?
Mr and Mrs S have been clear that their preference would have been to have the ability 
and flexibility of choosing a new mortgage provider when they moved home  so they 
wouldnt be limited to their lenders lending policy or interest rates. I think if the risks were 
laid out to Mr and Mrs S in a clear and fair way, they would have expressed a preference 
for no ERC, based on what they have told us and what we know about their 
circumstances. If Noble James had taken that into account, then I cant see why it 
wouldnt have recommended the flexible fixed rate product with no ERC. As far as I can 
see the rate with no ERC met all of Mr and Mrs Ss other objectives. Im satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs S relied on the advice Noble James gave them and would have accepted that 
advice. Its not clear why Noble James didnt identify there were fixed rate products 
available without an ERC.
As things stand, Mr and Mrs S have not suffered any financial loss. They will only do so if 
they move home and dont port their mortgage (I understand the lender is now providing 
new borrowing). But if they were to move home and incur an ERC before 31 December 
2024 then I consider that Noble James should refund that less the savings that Mr and Mrs 
S have made up to the point they incur the ERC, taking into account the difference in 
product fees. I dont know whether the interest rate they have with their existing lender is 
better than that available elsewhere. I am not giving Mr and Mrs S advice. They should 
seek advice about whether they would be better off porting (if they are able to do so) 
before incurring the ERC.
I am satisfied that the shortcomings Ive identified in the advice given by Noble James has 
caused Mr and Mrs S some distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs S have told us that 
they had to put their plans on hold as a result of the uncertainty around the ERC. That 
could have been avoided had Noble James recommended a product with no ERC. That 
has caused them worry and uncertainty. Looking at everything that happened, I consider 
that Noble James should pay Mr and Mrs S £300 to reflect that.
I said that Noble James should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 for any distress and inconvenience.
If Mr and Mrs S incur an ERC in relation to the mortgage that it recommended on or 
before 31 December 2024, it should refund it less the savings that Mr and Mrs S 
have made on by being on the lower interest rate up to that point.
Once Mr and Mrs S provide proof to Noble James that they have paid the ERC, it. 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of that date. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date the proof was provided to it to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Both Mr and Mrs S and Noble James had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further submissions, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to 
those set out above. I dont consider that Noble James acted fairly or reasonably in 
recommending the mortgage it did. If it had acted fairly and given a balanced explanation of 
the pros and cons of the two products, it is likely that a fixed rate without an ERC met Mr and 
Mrs Ss needs and circumstances  and that is what they would have chosen.
I would highlight again to Mr and Mrs S that if they do decide to move home while the fixed 
rate is in place, they should seek advice about what to do. Potentially they will be able to port 
their mortgage and avoid the ERC. That might still be the best thing overall for them. But that 
will depend on their circumstances at the time and the interest rates available on the market. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Noble James Associates Limited should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 for any distress and inconvenience.
If Mr and Mrs S incur an ERC in relation to the mortgage that it recommended on or 
before 31 December 2024, it should refund it less the savings that Mr and Mrs S 
have made on by being on the lower interest rate up to that point  so the difference 
between what they paid on a fixed rate of 1.69% and what they would have paid 
had the interest rate been 1.79%.
Once Mr and Mrs S provide proof to Noble James that they have paid the ERC, it. 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of that date. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date the proof was provided to it to the 
date of payment at 8% a year  simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman