DRN-3309630
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled a 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy. 
Any references to URV include its representatives and cost containment agents. 
What happened
Ms A bought a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover a trip to the 
United States in 2019. Whilst there, she needed to have medical treatment at a hospital. 
She returned to the UK and submitted a claim for medical costs amounting to $2,742.16 
which URV accepted and passed to its cost containment team. URV made part payment of 
the full amount. It paid $585.71.
Later in 2019, Ms A received debt collection letters for the outstanding amount of $2,156.45. 
She complained and ultimately referred her complaint to our service. In March 2021, a final 
decision was issued in which an Ombudsman explained URV remained responsible for 
taking active steps to resolve the matter. 
Ms A remained unhappy and raised a further complaint about URVs actions following the 
previous Ombudsmans final decision.
URV replied to say it had been in contact with the debt collection agency but required the 
exact costs of the treatment Ms A had as well as the contract between Ms A and the 
hospital. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said:
URV hadnt demonstrated that the cost of treatment was unjustified or grossly 
inflated. 
It hadnt taken reasonable steps to obtain the contract it requested from the debt 
collection agency from Ms A or the hospital directly. 
Its actions had contributed to the impasse in negotiations. It became clear in June 
2021 that a settlement wasnt going to be reached so URV should have explored an 
alternative avenue. And by not doing so, URV hasnt had regard to Ms As interests.
And so he recommended URV pay the outstanding balance.
Ms A accepted the investigators findings. 
URV responded and in summary, it said it didnt think it had acted unreasonably and needed 
a breakdown of costs and the contract to decide whether the costs were reasonable.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by our investigator.  
The relevant rules, regulations and industry guidance
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client. 
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must:
Handle claims promptly and fairly 
Provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
Settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed 
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the FCAs guidance on 
what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers and distributors 
of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their 
actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided. 
Ive also thought about what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the 
claim; for insurers  and their agents  to engage diligently with medical facilities (and their 
respective agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively seeking a 
compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in negotiation. 
Ill now consider what this means for Ms As complaint, focusing on what has happened 
since March 2021, after the previous Ombudsmans final decision. 
URV has said it has taken into consideration the annual published Medicare rates for the 
treatment Ms A had. And it considers 50% above the Medicare rates are a reasonable 
settlement. 
The following exchanges took place between URV and the debt collectors:
March 2021 - URV contacted the debt collection agency to say it would pay an 
additional 10% on top of what had already been paid. And increased this to 20% but 
this wasnt acceptable to the debt collection agency. It said it could sign off on 80% of 
the bill as settlement. April 2021  URV wrote to the debt collection agency and said they disagreed with 
the amount of costs due to the hospital and said they stood by their position that 50% 
above Medicare rates was reasonable. URV asked for evidence of total costs 
incurred in treating the customer as well as the sums accepted in settlement for 
similar treatment on behalf of others. 
May 2021  the debt collection agency said the low offers made by URV could not be 
considered meaningful negotiation and Medicare does not apply to international 
patients. It also said contracted insurer rates also werent relevant and the amount 
due was $2,156.45. 
June 2021  URV asked for a copy of the contract between Ms A and the hospital as 
well as evidence of what the treatment actually cost the hospital. The debt collection 
agency replied to confirm it didnt have consent from either the hospital or Ms A to 
share a copy of the contract with URV. 
Having considered all of the above, it was clear that an agreement wasnt going to be 
reached and an impasse was reached by June 2021. An alternative route should have been 
explored by URV such as through the courts, an expert or an alternative dispute service. In 
not doing so, URV has failed to have regard to Ms As interests. 
The basis of URVs negotiations is its general policy to pay a certain percentage above the 
Congressional rates for the medical care and treatment Ms A received in the USA. But the 
debt collector didnt accept these rates as a valid benchmark.
I havent seen anything to convince me that the rates URV relied on are a valid benchmark 
for the fair market value of services provided outside the US Medicare/Medicaid systems to 
which they relate. And so I am not persuaded that on this basis, the invoices were 
excessive. 
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly and is required by the Principles to 
act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Ms As interests and treating her 
fairly. And it must also manage fairly any conflicts of interest between itself and its 
customers. I dont think URV has done this here  I think it has unreasonably put its own 
commercial interests (to pay the least amount of money for the treatment Ms A received) 
above her interests. 
When negotiations reached an impasse, URV ought reasonably to have been aware that the 
outstanding amount wouldnt be settled by negotiation alone - it ought to have explored with 
the debt collectors or medical facility the option of more formal adjudication to move forward 
without further delay.
Given the amount of time the outstanding amount has been unpaid for, and now that 
negotiations have reached an impasse, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to delay 
matters further by giving URV another opportunity to negotiate the outstanding amount or 
exploring the option of more formal adjudication. So I uphold Ms As complaint. 
I think URV should now settle the outstanding balance given the amount of time that has 
passed. 
Putting things right
As the invoice hasnt been agreed or adjudicated on, Im satisfied that there isnt an 
ascertained legal liability on Ms A to pay the outstanding amount to the medical facility. So 
URVs duty to indemnify them by paying the outstanding amount hasnt yet crystallised. But in this case, and for the reasons already mentioned, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable 
for URV to now make a further payment to the medical facility to the value of the outstanding 
amount to settle the invoice without further delay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Ms A accepts our final decision, I direct 
Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  
together with any interest due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Ms A is 
liable for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman