DRN-3029181
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold the PPI.
Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax at the time cover was sold. So to keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Shortly afterwards, Halifax offered to 
pay back some of Mrs Ms PPI premiums  because it didnt tell her about a high level of profit 
share and commission it received from them. 
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with what our adjudicator said about the mis-sale. They 
didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. I cant see that any response has been received to the 
commission offer. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to 
take out the PPI. The parties agree that cover was sold during a face to face meeting. Ive 
had the benefit of seeing the application form Mrs M completed at the relevant time. It isnt 
wholly legible and so Halifax also sent us a sample copy of the same form. I can see that in 
order for PPI to be added to Mrs Ms account, a box had to be ticked. I think its most likely 
that Mrs M ticked the box to say she wanted cover. If she didnt, there was an equally 
prominent no box to tick to indicate she didnt. 
Those representing Mrs M said the PPI was presented as part of a package alongside her 
credit card. I think thats unlikely. I say this because if the cover was presented as part and 
parcel of the credit card, I dont think Mrs M would have thought she needed to choose 
whether to take the cover out.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. To 
help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover and Ive 
also thought about what Mrs M told us about her circumstances at the relevant time. I can 
see that if shed had to make a claim on the policy, Mrs M would have been covered for up 
to 12 months if she was off sick or if she was made redundant. 
Mrs M told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay if she was off work, so it looks as though 
the cover would have lasted for longer than her existing means from work. I appreciate she 
said her parents would have been able to help out if she ran into financial difficulties. I dont 
doubt it would have been the intention of her parents to help her in such circumstances, but 
theres no guarantee that help would have been available to Mrs M as and when she needed 
it. 
Mrs M was eligible for the cover and the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest the policy was 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Although she told us shed been treated for depression 
in 1993, it is not clear whether this condition was ongoing. Mrs M hadnt taken any time off 
work because of it. So I dont think shed have reasonably thought shed have to claim for 
her mental health. I havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances 
that would have stopped her making a successful claim if she needed to. Overall, Im 
satisfied the policy was suitable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs M as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information provided at the point of 
sale. I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable. And taking account of what I 
said above, I dont think Mrs M would have acted differently if Halifax had given her more or 
better information.  
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. So I think she would 
have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mrs M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Halifax didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs M paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs M 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Halifax had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line 
with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mrs M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman