DRN-2695360
The complaint
Mr R, a sole trader, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
regarding the management of his business loan accounts.
What happened
Mr R complained to RBS about a number of matters concerning his business borrowing. Part 
of the complaint was about the period when the bank brought Mr Rs accounts under the 
management of its Global Restructuring Group (GRG) department. The bank investigated 
those matters as part of its GRG review and offered Mr R compensation to settle the 
complaint. Mr R signed the acceptance of that offer in January 2020. 
The other parts of Mr Rs complaint were about the period after his accounts were returned 
from GRG to mainstream RBS banking in November 2014. Mr R complained that the bank 
applied unreasonable interest and charges, and failed to provide regular statements for his 
consolidated loan.
Mr R was unhappy with the banks response and referred his complaint to this service in 
January 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the bank needed to do anything further. He gave the 
following reasons:
He didnt think the interest rates charged from November 2014 onwards had been 
charged unfairly or unreasonably. From November 2014 to October 2017, the loan 
interest rate was LIBOR plus 3.5%, which was a reduction on the rate paid previously 
and was within the banks own general lending guidelines at the time. From October 
2017 onwards, the rate was base rate plus 3.5%, which would not have resulted in a 
significant change. The investigator hadnt seen that the bank applied any fees to 
Mr Rs account after November 2014.
It wasnt clear why Mr R didnt receive annual or monthly loan statements, but RBS 
did send him monthly letters about the interest payments he was expected to make. 
The investigator therefore believed that Mr R was aware of the loan costs. There 
were no requests for statements or complaints at the time. No losses were caused to 
Mr Rs business. The bank has apologised and offered to provide any copies of any 
statements that Mr R now requires. The investigator didnt think the bank needed to 
do anything more. 
The ombudsman service wouldnt investigate the part of Mr Rs complaint about the 
actions of the banks GRG department, because he had already accepted the banks 
offer to settle that dispute. The rules of our service say that we may dismiss a 
complaint if dealing with it would seriously impair the effective operation of the 
service. Mr R had signed the acceptance of the offer in full and final settlement of any 
claims arising from the actions of the GRG department. For that reason, the 
investigator said it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to investigate this part of 
Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and made the following points, in 
summary:
There were no detailed/normal statements for the loan.
The ombudsman service ought to consider his complaint about GRG. Mr R had been 
blackmailed into accepting the settlement. The bank used blackmail tactics to 
withhold the funds of customers who had been had cheated or overcharged, by way 
of threat that they get nothing if they dont accept. In Mr Rs case, he had to get some 
money back immediately or go bankrupt.
He had withdrawn his consent from the settlement agreement within 14 days of 
signing it, which is allowed by law. A cooling-off period is a legal right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
The interest rates offered by banks are a matter of their own commercial judgement and risk 
assessment. But Im also satisfied that the rates that RBS charged on Mr Rs borrowing from 
November 2014 onwards were within the banks own guidelines and werent unusually high 
for the time. I dont think the bank applied unreasonable interest and charges from 
November 2014 onwards.
There may have been communication problems over the restructured loan, but Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr R was caused any losses. The information RBS sent would have made 
Mr R aware of his outgoings. The bank has apologised for any shortcomings and, in my 
view, it doesnt need to do any more.
As regards Mr Rs request for us to consider his GRG complaint, I agree with the investigator 
that we shouldnt investigate this matter, which has already been settled between the 
parties.
RBS made an offer and Mr R first signed the settlement form in November 2019 with some 
handwritten qualifications, which werent accepted by the bank. After some exchanges 
between the parties, Mr R then returned a signed copy of the settlement form, without any 
qualifications, dated 6 January 2020. 
Im not persuaded that offering a compensation agreement to be signed in full and final 
settlement should be regarded as blackmail. In a dispute settlement, its fair and reasonable 
for both parties to have an expectation of finality. It was clear from the offer documents that 
Mr R could, if he wished, refer his complaint to the ombudsman service rather than accept it.
There was no cooling-off period specified in the settlement agreement and Im not aware of 
any general legal right to a cooling-off period for dispute settlements between banks and 
business customers. Generally, I think its right for the ombudsman to respect legally binding 
settlement agreements.
Mr R signed the form which said the compensation was in full and final settlement of the 
complaint. Ive looked at the banks redress offer and the settlement form. In my view the offer was explained clearly and Mr R chose to accept it. Im satisfied it was clear that the 
acceptance was in full and final settlement of the complaint about the banks actions when 
Mr Rs accounts were under the control of the GRG department. For these reasons, I find 
that Mr R and RBS had resolved this part of his complaint before it came to this service.
I realise that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and I recognise the strength of his 
feelings about the complaint. But I conclude that RBS doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman