DRN-2690674
The complaint
 Mr E is unhappy with the amount of compensation Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has 
offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a loan. And also with the way his complaint has been handled.
What happened
 Mr E says he originally complained about mis-sold PPI after being contacted by Aviva about 
bringing a complaint relating to high levels of commission on a PPI policy he had that was  
associated with a catalogue account. He was unhappy with the response he received from 
Aviva and brought his complaint to this service.
After the complaint was received by this service and we contacted Aviva, the business 
agreed to uphold the complaint in full, agreeing that the PPI was mis-sold, and that it would  
pay Mr E compensation. Our adjudicator also indicated Aviva should pay £250 additional 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr E by the way Aviva had dealt with his 
complaint and a number of issues that had arisen. Aviva agreed to pay this extra amount 
and Mr E said he would be happy with this settlement, subject to receipt of the calculation of 
the compensation for the mis-sale.
Mr E came back to this service when he received the £250 for the trouble and upset but no 
payment for the mis-sale compensation. Aviva said there had been an error in processing 
the compensation, but it would be paid. Aviva then sent an offer letter to Mr E indicating that 
£497 would be paid for the compensation within 21 days of the date of the letter. Mr E 
wanted to have a full breakdown of the calculation for the compensation and also to know if 
any compensatory interest was paid net or gross of income tax. 
The offer letter had set out the premiums paid were £217.80 and the 8% compensatory 
interest came to a total of £350.21. Based on this figure for the interest the tax to be 
deducted was indicated as £70.04 and so the total due was £497.97. This information was 
set out in a standard format that Aviva used, and the letter included a number of references 
to other amounts that were shown as zero. It was unclear from the offer letter exactly what 
date the compensatory interest had been calculated to.
Mr E then wanted to know why the interest could not be paid gross as the first £1,000 of 
interest paid on investments and this type of compensatory interest was tax free. He asked 
that if tax had to be deducted, that a Certificate of Tax deducted (form R185) be provided. 
The business eventually confirmed that the compensatory interest had been calculated 
allowing 56 days after the date of calculation, to allow time for processing of the payment. 
The business however refused to issue a Certificate of Tax deducted as it said it was for 
Mr E to submit his claim for any tax repayment to the tax office on form R40 and the offer 
letter provided adequate information for him.
Our adjudicator said that since the date the offer had originally been made to uphold the 
complaint in full and pay £250 for trouble and upset, Mr E had suffered further inconvenience 
due to the way Aviva had dealt with the amount offered and to be paid. So she felt Aviva 
should pay an additional £100 for trouble and upset and also £10 toward the postage and 
costs Mr E had incurred in pursuing his complaint. 
She also said that in accordance with the Income Tax Act 2007 that the business was 
required to issue a Certificate of Tax deducted and it should do so, providing the information 
as required by form R185, to show the tax deducted.
Aviva did not agree that more compensation should be paid and refused to agree to issue a 
Certificate of Tax deducted. So the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Mr E first raised his complaint about mis-sold PPI with Aviva, following receipt of a 
letter from Aviva about possible high levels of commission, there seems to have been a 
great deal of confusion. However, Aviva eventually agreed to fully uphold the complaint that 
the PPI was mis-sold, and also to pay £250 for trouble and upset, as recommended by our 
adjudicator. 
Aviva had also indicated it was making an offer of full compensation for the mis-sold PPI in 
line with the agreed approach this service expects. That is to repay all costs of the PPI and 
pay compensatory interest on those costs for any time a consumer is out of pocket. 
Aviva has sent full statements for the account and also its summary figures used in the 
calculation it made for the compensation. I can see that the total PPI premiums actually 
charged whilst the PPI was active on the account came to £269.55. But in August 2008, 
following cancellation of the policy by Mr E in March 2008, Aviva refunded to the account 
£51.75 for premiums charged since the account reactivated in August 2007, after a short 
period of no usage. So this amount already refunded has been deducted from the total 
premiums charged. Compensatory interest has then been calculated on the amount paid for 
premiums, and an additional 56 days of interest included in the calculation to allow for any 
processing time for the payment and delay in Mr E receiving it.
At the point the offer was made by Aviva, I am satisfied that the compensation offered for the 
mis-sale and also the £250 for trouble and upset agreed to that point was all fair, taking into 
account all the issues that had arisen.
However, Aviva made further errors when dealing with payment of the compensation and 
providing information to Mr E about the compensation. 
Mr E was sent a cheque for the £250 compensation for the trouble and upset but did not 
receive the compensation for the mis-sale. Mr E contacted us on 27 July 2021 to say he had 
received this trouble and upset payment but nothing about the actual redress compensation 
payment for the mis-sole PPI. Attempts were made to contact the business but there were 
problems making contact and then in November the business advised there had been an 
error in processing the compensation and this would now be updated and sent out to Mr E 
as soon as possible.
An offer letter was sent to Mr E dated 10 November 2020, which also apologised for the poor 
service and delay in issuing the compensation amount offer, although no additional 
compensation was offered for the poor service or delays that had occurred in relation to 
processing the calculation and making the payment.Mr E raised some further concerns about how the compensatory interest had been 
calculated, and what dates had been used for this. He was also concerned about any tax 
deducted from the compensatory interest and if this would fall within the £1,000 tax 
allowance for interest on investments and compensation or if tax had been deducted. He 
also requested that if tax had been deducted that Aviva provide a Certificate of Tax which he 
requested as completion of a form R185 by Aviva.
Aviva clarified to this service how it had undertaken its calculation and indicated, as I have 
outlined above, that an additional 56 days of compensatory interest had been included 
beyond the calculation date in November 2020, to allow for any further delay in receipt of the 
payment by Mr E. But Aviva said the information Mr E needed to reclaim any tax was in its 
offer letter and that it was for him to complete any tax forms and submit them to Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
Aviva are obliged to deduct basic rate tax form the compensatory interest and pay the tax 
amount to HMRC. The Finance Act 2013 introduced the requirement that tax should be 
deducted from compensatory interest before this interest was paid to the consumer, and the 
tax has to be sent to HMRC. Prior to this the compensatory interest was paid in full to the 
consumer and any tax due was then a matter between the consumer and HMRC.
So in this case Aviva must deduct the tax before paying the compensatory interest to Mr E. 
But Section 975 of the Income Tax Act 2007 indicates that a recipient of a payment, from 
which income tax has been deducted, can request a statement in writing of the tax deducted. 
This is what we are referring to as a Certificate of Tax. And there are requirements as to 
what that written statement about the deduction should contain. One form used for this is the 
R185, which is the form Mr E requested from Aviva. 
When ombudsmen from this service issue final decisions on mis-sale complaints, where 
compensation with compensatory interest is due, we say that if required the consumer 
should request a Certificate of Tax deducted from the business and the business should 
provide such a certificate. 
In this case Mr E has requested a Certificate of Tax deducted and so the business is by law 
(under the Income Tax Act 2007) required to provide that Certificate. The offer letter sent to 
Mr E is not adequate for this purpose, as a Certificate of Tax needs to be provided after the 
offer has been accepted and paid, as it is only then that the exact amount of compensatory 
interest and tax deducted amount is known.
Mr E has requested this Certificate of Tax by completion of form R185 from the tax office. 
Aviva have said this form is only used for estates and trustees for certified tax deductions. 
This form is used for those purposes, but the form does set out all the information required 
for the tax office about deductions of income tax and can, I understand, be used to certify tax 
deducted by a business, such as in this case, from compensatory interest. If Aviva wishes to 
present this tax information in another form, then it can do so, but it must be clear from any 
written document provided to Mr E that the form or format used, is a Certificate of Tax 
deducted by the business and it must contain all the information that completion of a form 
R185 requires to be provided.
As Aviva has indicated, it is for Mr E to make the claim for any refund of tax himself to the 
tax office, but Mr E is not asking Aviva to make the tax claim on his behalf. He is merely 
requesting that a Certificate of Tax deducted is provided to him so he can submit his tax 
claim with the necessary supporting evidence. 
Putting things right In summary, as Ive indicated earlier, I think what Aviva offered and eventually paid to Mr E 
for the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair and also the £250 paid for trouble and upset 
up to the point the offer letter was sent to Mr E is also fair for the errors and upset caused to 
Mr E during that period of dealing with his complaint.
However further errors have occurred. As already acknowledged by Aviva, there was an 
error in processing the compensation payment which caused further delays and 
inconvenience for Mr E in chasing up this payment. I therefore believe that additional 
compensation should be paid by Aviva for these further errors and delays that have occurred 
which have caused more trouble and upset for Mr E. I think an amount of £150, is a fair 
amount for the additional trouble and upset caused after the offer letter was sent and also to 
cover any costs caused to Mr E in pursuing his complaint relating to payment of the 
compensation.
In addition to paying this further £150 in compensation, Aviva must issue a Certificate of Tax 
deducted, as requested by Mr E, to enable him to make a tax claim.
 
My final decision
 I think the compensation Aviva Insurance Limited calculated and offered to Mr E for the mis-
sold PPI is fair and the £250 additional compensation already paid, was also fair for the 
trouble and upset caused up to the point of the finding the PPI was mis-sold. 
However, for the reasons Ive set out above I am directing that Aviva Insurance Limited 
should pay a further £150 to Mr E for the delays and additional trouble he has been put to in 
pursuing matters related to his compensation payment. And  Aviva Insurance Limited must  
also provide a written Certificate of Tax deducted to Mr E. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman