DRN-3033280
The complaint
 This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mr and Mrs S made to Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Mr and Mrs S say the application was unduly delayed, 
and their vendor withdrew from the transaction in favour of a higher offer. Halifax has paid 
compensation but Mr and Mrs S dont think its enough. They want a refund of moving and 
storage costs incurred because they moved out of their existing home, and because they 
had to buy a different, more expensive, property at short notice.
  
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
I have  to decide  what  is more  likely,  on balance.  When considering any complaint like this, 
as Mr and Mrs S are the ones bringing the complaint against Halifax, for me to uphold the 
complaint means Mr and Mrs S version of events needs to be more likely than Halifaxs 
version; not just as likely.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, the conclusion Ive come to is that I cant say Mr and Mrs Ls version is 
anything more than just as likely. Ill explain why.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs S the 
compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Halifax unduly and excessively 
delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay was the 
sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mr and Mrs S. Looking at the 
overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that the latter applies. 
Its common ground that Halifax made mistakes; thats why it has offered compensation of 
£300. But its worth keeping in mind that Halifax corrected things in time for a mortgage offer 
to be issued little more than a month after the application had been received. That might 
have exceeded the four-week time period Mr and Mrs S were aiming for, but Halifax hadnt 
committed to meeting that, and I wouldnt have expected it to. For most lenders, the typical 
time frame for producing a mortgage offer is between six and eight weeks.
I understand its upsetting when things dont go to plan, but ultimately, Im not persuaded the 
main reason Mr and Mrs S ended up putting their possessions in storage and buying a 
different property is because their seller had withdrawn from the transaction due to delays. 
Rather, I think it was more likely because they feared that could happen. 
I think that was the dominant driver of Mr and Mrs S decision, and that isnt enough for me 
to say Halifax should meet their extra transaction costs. The fact that the seller did 
subsequently accept a higher offer doesnt change that. I fully appreciate why Mr and Mrs S 
would want to protect their house move. It might have been a choice between two 
unwelcome alternatives, but it was their choice to act as they did.
On the subject of compensation for time, trouble and upset, this is very much a subjective 
area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment, when 
subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving house. But I have to take a step back and 
assess things objectively. When I do that, Im not persuaded that Halifaxs initial offer of 
£300 was quite sufficient. I agree with our investigator that a further £250, making £550 in 
all, is a fair settlement in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Halifax will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ss right to take legal action against Halifax over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, to pay Mr and Mrs S £550. I make no other order or 
award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman