DRN-3624696
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Arrow Global Limited have been pursuing her for a debt which 
she feels she doesnt owe.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a Choice branded consumer credit account that was opened in 
1998, defaulted in 2003, and was eventually sold to Arrow in 2011.
Ms M confirmed she had a Choice account, but said the account references dont match. 
She also said she had cleared her Choice balance, and she provided a statement from 
2002. She said shed only started making repayments in 2007 because of threatening 
contact. She felt Arrow and their agents had harassed her, and she felt they owed her a 
refund of the repayments shed made.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
spoke to the lender and found that the account references and balances did link up  the 
references had just changed over time as the account had changed hands. 
Ms M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her case afresh, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can certainly understand why Ms M would want to make sure that shes been paying 
towards an account she actually owes.
However, I can see from the lenders records that Arrows account reference matches up 
with the old Choice account reference that Ms M confirmed was hers. Theyre the same 
account. The references just changed over time when the account changed hands  that 
does often happen when a new company takes over, and is normal.
The account was opened in Ms Ms name, at an address shed confirmed she lived in at the 
time, and the dates and amounts match up. Im satisfied that this was the same account that 
Ms M confirmed was hers.
I understand Ms M thought shed paid this account off, and I can see that she provided a 
statement with a zero balance. But that statement was dated a significant amount of time 
before the account was defaulted or sold on. And this was a revolving credit account, so 
Ms M was able to run up a new balance even after shed paid off her old one, similarly to a 
credit card. So this statement does not prove that there was no debt after that point. And 
both Arrow and the lenders records are clear that the account defaulted with an outstanding 
balance  and their records match up.
If Ms M feels that the lender got her balance wrong, then that would need to be looked at 
against the lender, rather than Arrow  the balance was run up long before Arrow were ever 
involved. I can see that our investigator has helped Ms M get a separate case set up against 
the lender.
Since this was a genuine account of Ms Ms, I dont think Arrow need to refund her 
repayments. As far as I can see, those were legitimate repayments for a legitimate debt. And 
I can see that the payments reduced the outstanding balance as they were supposed to.
I understand Ms M feels that Arrow and their agents harassed her. But since Arrow were 
pursuing a genuine account of Ms Ms, they had a legitimate reason to contact her. And 
having looked at the contact history, I cannot see that they communicated with Ms M 
excessively or unreasonably.
Im sorry to hear that Ms M was unhappy with some contact she received in 2007. But that 
contact was made by a wholly different company, some years before Arrow owned the 
account. So I cannot consider that in a case against Arrow or hold Arrow responsible for it. 
I hope I can reassure Ms M that its normal for debts to be sold on like this. Arrow and their 
agents still have to treat Ms M fairly, so for example her repayments should be based on 
what she can actually afford. Ms M may want to get back in touch with Arrow or their agent 
to see what assistance they can give her in repaying the account. Ill also send her the 
details for charities who can give her free, impartial advice about dealing with debt. And 
Ms M can always get back in touch with us as a separate case if she later feels that Arrow 
arent taking account of her circumstances when working out a payment plan.
But as things stand now, I have not found that Arrow did anything substantially wrong in this 
case, and I think its reasonable for them to ask Ms M for repayments on the debt she owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman