DRN-3112811
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy because Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, did not reimburse all the 
money he transferred to a fraudster.
Background
In July 2020, Mr A was contacted by a fraudster pretending to be from HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC). The fraudster told Mr A he owed around £4,000 in unpaid tax for the 
years 2015-2019 and that there was a warrant out for his arrest. Mr A was told that if he 
didnt pay, he would be blacklisted, and his driving licence would be taken away.
Mr A explained hed been fasting that morning for a blood test, which he thinks affected his 
focus. He said hed never owed tax before, although he had recently received a letter from 
HMRC, advising that in 2020 he had overpaid tax and was owed money back. He said he 
questioned with the fraudster how he can be sure the call was genuine. The fraudster told 
him to type a web address into his phone and was then given a code to enter. Mr A said 
some of his details were then displayed on screen, but he cant recall the specifics of what 
he saw, other than his name. Mr A felt under a lot of pressure and scared, so agreed to pay 
as instructed. All payments were made to the same account, held in an individuals name. 
For ease of reference, Ive included a breakdown of transfers made below, and detailed 
where Mr A has already received some refund from Halifax:
payment value method of transfer refunded provided by Halifax
£990 online banking No refund
£985 online banking 50% refunded
Third online banking payment of £980 attempted which was blocked by Halifaxs fraud 
team
£1,925 branch 50% refunded
£4,000 branch 100% refunded
£6,000 branch 100% refunded
Mr A initially tried to send £4,000 from another of his banking providers but the payment was 
stopped. The scammer suggested Mr A may have already been blacklisted and suggested 
trying another bank account. Mr A says he initially tried to send £4,000 from his Halifax 
account but this was also stopped, so he went on to make a number of smaller payments. 
Halifax has provided Mr As online banking records, which suggest the first payment Mr A 
attempted was the £990 transfer listed above. 
When Mr As online banking was blocked by Halifaxs fraud team, the fraudster told Mr A to 
visit a local branch to make further payments which he did. He was then told that, as he had 
taken too long, a further £4,000 of charges had generated. Mr A was told to visit another 
branch to pay an additional £4,000 and if asked by bank staff, to tell them the money was for 
a friend. 
Following this payment Mr A was told a further £8,000 in charges had generated and to 
again visit a branch to make a further payment. Mr A told the fraudsters he had £6,000 
remaining, which he sent. The fraudsters told Mr A to revert to the first banking provider Mr A 
had tried, at which point he refused and ended the call. Mr A contacted his son who advised 
Mr A he had been the victim of a scam. Mr A contacted Halifax to raise a fraud claim.
Halifax investigated Mr As fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mr A with a 
refund. Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case.
Halifax has said Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making genuine 
payments to HMRC. Halifax considers Mr A ought to have done more checks to make sure 
the call hed received was genuine. 
However, Halifax did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the 
CRM Code. It said it could have done more to protect Mr A at the time given the pattern of 
payments made. Halifax therefore refunded 50% of the second and third payments made 
by Mr A, and provided a full refund for the fourth and fifth payments.
It also contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Mr As money, but unfortunately 
no funds remained in the account.
Mr A disagreed with Halifax so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the case and didnt uphold it  he thought that, in the circumstances, Mr A ought 
to have completed further checks to verify that he was genuinely speaking with HMRC. The 
investigator therefore considered Halifaxs offer to be fair and in line with the Code. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have fully reimbursed Mr A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr A from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
making genuine payments to HMRC and that didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in and of 
itself, for Mr A to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on 
Mr A too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Halifax to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Halifax has accepted it didnt provide an Effective Warning and that it shouldve 
made checks with Mr A about the payments after the first one had been sent - which is why 
its refunded at least 50% of all subsequent payments Mr A made. However I think Halifax 
has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr A under the terms of 
the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the 
provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Halifax has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr A was making are enough to support its position that he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I 
dont think Mr A had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr A has said he didnt check the telephone number he received the call from to verify if it 
was a legitimate number for HMRC. Hes also confirmed the fraudsters werent able to 
volunteer any personal information about him such as accounts or recent bills. I think theres 
more Mr A could reasonably have done to assure himself that the fraudster had personal 
information relating to him and that he was being called from a verified telephone number.
Mr A has explained hes never owed tax before  but he had recently received a letter 
advising HMRC owes him money. I think Mr A should reasonably have questioned why 
HMRC would write to him advising hes owed a refund for more recent tax years, if he was 
wanted by HMRC with an arrest warrant for tax owed in earlier years. Mr A said he did 
question this with the fraudster and was told that was a different matter and for a different time period. I dont think this response by the fraudster was so compelling that it ought to 
have removed the concerns Mr A had.
Mr A was asked to make all payments to an account held in an individuals name and was 
told this was the accountant involved in his case. Mr A said he also questioned this but was 
told he would be blacklisted and that the longer it took to pay back the money owed, the 
more charges would generate against him. Again I think Mr A has shown he had concerns 
with the legitimacy of the caller and was rightly asking questions to verify them, but I dont 
think the answers the fraudster gave ought to have reassured Mr A that this was a genuine 
request from HMRC. I appreciate Mr A was very panicked at the time of the call, but I think 
the response provided by the fraudster was questionable and insufficient in response to the 
concerns Mr A had expressed.
Mr A has said when he asked how he could be sure the call was genuine, he was told to visit 
a particular website and enter a code, which then provided his name. Unfortunately Mr A 
cant provide much more detail than this  so its not clear what website he was on, how 
legitimate this appeared, or what information was provided about him. Without this additional 
context, its difficult to determine whether it was reasonable for this to have reassured Mr A, 
or on the contrary, whether the information the fraudster provided ought to have raised 
further concerns.
I appreciate Mr A had been fasting on the morning of the fraud call, which hes explained 
impacted his ability to focus. The CRM Code includes a provision to refund customers who 
are vulnerable. It sets out that a customer should be considered vulnerable if it would not be 
reasonable to expect those customers to have protected themselves, at the time of 
becoming a victim of an app scam, against that particular scam. This means an individual 
can be vulnerable to a scam based on their particular circumstances at the time of the 
scam. Ive considered whether I think this applies to Mr As circumstances, but I dont think 
he can be considered vulnerable at the time of the scam. While I dont doubt his focus may 
have been compromised, I dont consider it unreasonable to expect him to be able to 
protect himself in the circumstances, so I think Halifax has acted fairly by still applying the 
additional criteria of the Code when assessing Mr As claim. 
With all of the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr 
A ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the call he received and that, in turn, 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr As part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the call was genuinely 
from HMRC and so fell below the level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Should Halifax have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr A?
Ive thought about whether Halifax did enough to protect Mr A from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr A made this payment, Halifax should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Halifax has acknowledged it couldve done more to protect Mr A from financial harm after the 
first payment and so has accepted at least partial liability for all subsequent payments, but Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to protect Mr A when he made the 
first payment to the fraudster. 
In this case, Halifax has said that the first payment made by Mr A wasnt detected by its 
systems as being a potential fraud risk and therefore no warnings were provided.
Having considered the first payment Mr A made, I dont think it was so remarkable, in 
comparison to his usual account activity, that it shouldve appeared as suspicious to Halifax. 
I therefore dont think Halifax failed to meet its standards under the Code by not providing Mr 
A with a warning, prior to processing the payment.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Halifax tried to recover Mr As funds, but unfortunately 
was advised by the beneficiary account that no funds remained. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Halifax could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mr As 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifaxs position on Mr As fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Halifax shouldnt 
be held further liable for Mr As losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr A. 
I do sympathise with Mr A as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman