DRN-3130925
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded the 
premium they paid for a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In the Autumn of 2019, Mr and Mrs T bought a single trip, gold, travel insurance policy, 
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad which had 
been booked for a week in May 2020.
They had paid £549.36 for the policy and it covered them for the medical conditions theyd 
declared when taking out the policy. Mr and Mrs Ts trip was cancelled in early May 2020 
due to the Covid19 pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under the policy for their pre-paid costs of the trip theyd booked. 
That claim was declined by URV on the basis that the policy didnt cover claims for 
cancellation due to change in Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice. 
Mr and Mrs T then requested a refund of the premium theyd paid for the policy from URV 
but URV said when a claim had been made under the policy (even an unsuccessful one), no 
refund would be issued.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to our service. One of our investigators looked at what 
had happened. He set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied 
in the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
Our investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in September 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. The investigator acknowledged the unique 
and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. However, after the date the holiday was 
cancelled due to Covid-19, he said URV didnt bear any risk under the policy. The holiday 
had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and URV declined a claim under the policy due 
to this issue. So URV was no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any 
other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, URV was also no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs T were abroad. 
Our investigator thought it fair and reasonable for URV to provide the refund approach that it 
usually does where a single trip travel insurance hasnt been used  and a trip has been 
cancelled  due to Covid-19. That amounts to a refund of 75% of the total premium paid by 
Mr and Mrs T. 
URV disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator has set out in his view dated October 2021, the rules, 
regulations and law which are relevant to this complaint which Ive also taken into account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy with URV set out their 
cancellation rights under the contract. When the policy is cancelled outside of the 14 days 
cooling off period, it says: 
Single Trip policies - In the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on
the policy, a refund of 70% of the policy premium and any additional premium
applied (on a pro-rota basis). If you have travelled or are Intending to claim or
have made a claim (Irrespective of whether your claim was successful or not) we will not 
consider refunding any proportion of your premium.
Im partially upholding this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think URV 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not offering to refund to Mr and Mrs T part of the 
premium they paid for the policy. Ill explain why. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for URV to offer a full refund. 
The policy terms say that where cancellation occurs more than 14 days after 
payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, URV will refund 70% of 
the policy premium and any additional premium applied (on a pro-rota basis) but 
thats only if a claim hasnt been made (irrespective of whether its been successful or 
not). 
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19  which were wholly outside of the control of both parties to the insurance 
contract. And I dont think not providing a refund on the grounds that Mr and Mrs T 
made an unsuccessful claim under the policy to cover their pre-paid holiday costs 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case - when their trip was 
cancelled for reasons relating to the Covid-19 global pandemic.
URV says Mr and Mrs T cant have it both ways; if their claim had been successful, 
they wouldnt have requested a refund. So, it says its not fair that they should now 
receive a refund because their claim had been declined. Otherwise, every claim 
declined under a policy could lead to a premium refund being issued. I understand 
the point URV makes and just because a claim is declined doesnt mean that the 
policyholder should have their premium refunded (or part of it). However, Ive 
considered the circumstances of this particular case. And the claim wasnt covered 
as an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy because URVs 
position that cancelling a trip due to a change in FCO advice (or because of the 
global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic generally). So, here, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for URV to rely on the term that there would be no refund of the premium 
just because of an unsuccessful claim was made on the policy due to the trip being 
cancelled for the reasons it was in this case. Particularly as from the date the trip was 
cancelled URV was no longer at risk of a successful claim being made on the policy 
for the holiday being cancelled for another reason. Or for a claim being made on the policy in respect of something happening, which was covered by the policy, whilst Mr 
and Mrs T were away. 
However, as Mr and Mrs T were covered from September 2020 until the beginning of 
May 2020 for a number of listed events insured under the policy, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for them to receive a full refund of the premium. URV was on 
risk for a valid claim during that time. Under the policy, 70% of the premium paid for a 
single trip travel insurance policy can be paid together with any additional premium 
applied (on a pro-rota basis). However, Im aware that URVs general approach is to 
refund 75% of the total premium when a Covid-19-impacted single trip travel 
insurance policy has not been used. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for it 
to adopt that approach here. 
Putting things right
I direct URV to refund 75% of the premium Mr and Mrs T paid for the policy which is in line 
with the refund approach it frequently adopts where a Covid-19-impacted single trip travel 
insurance policy has not been used.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman