DRN-3991068
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK Plcs customer service when she visited the branch 
to make a deposit into her Barclays account. 
What happened
On 29 December 2022 Ms M visited her Barclays branch to make a deposit using the 
branchs banking machine. 
When Ms M struggled with making the deposit, she asked for help from a member of staff 
who was talking to another customer at the time. 
Ms M said the member of staff was rude and unhelpful, and ignored Ms M when she asked if 
she should wait. Ms M said the customer the staff member was speaking to then became 
abusive and aggressive towards her. 
Ms M says things escalated between herself and the other customer in that it became 
physical, with the other customer and a woman he was with threatening Ms M. 
Ms M says the staff member did not intervene, but rather joined the other customers side so 
Ms M was outnumbered. 
Ms M said that the staff member could have done more to help her with the transaction she 
was trying to make, and that the branch should have called the police because of what was 
happening with the other customer. But the branch didnt do this. 
During the argument between Ms M and the other customer, another member of staff came 
into the banking hall and helped Ms M to deposit her money. 
Ms M has said that had the first member of staff been professional and respectful to her, 
then the other customer wouldnt have been disrespectful or behaved towards her in the way 
they did. 
Ms M said the whole matter left her feeling traumatised. 
Barclays reviewed Ms Ms complaint on the same day, and told her they had considered, 
resolved and closed it. Ms M didnt accept this, so she raised the matter with Barclays again. 
On 16 January 2023 Barclays issued their final response on the matter. They apologised for 
what had happened and assured Ms M they had told the branch manager about the incident 
for it to be dealt with internally. Barclays explained they could not pursue anything against 
the other customer, but Ms M could contact the police about the other individual if she 
wished. 
Ms M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint should not be upheld as they said Barclays had 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. In summary, the Investigator explained that 
CCTV was no longer available, but it did not cover that particular section of the branch 
anyway and it would not have had any audio. The Investigator said theyd considered        
Ms Ms version of what had happened, and they had also seen the recollections of the 
branch staff member which, while included similarities to Ms Ms details about what took 
place, did also suggest there had been a racist remark made by Ms M. The staff member 
said they believed this is what had escalated matters between Ms M and the other customer. 
The Investigator explained they were not able to know what had happened, therefore Ms Ms 
version of events was equally as possible as that of the branch staff members. 
In a call with Ms M, our Investigator also tried to explain they thought Barclays had acted 
fairly given they had apologised and given feedback to the branch to deal with what had 
happened internally.
Ms M disagreed. To summarise, she said Barclays was trying to hide what had happened as 
the CCTV was in the area where this happened. Ms M said Barclays was lying. Ms M said 
this was about the trauma she had experienced due to Barclays poor customer service. And 
that Barclays needed to learn from their mistakes so it wouldnt happen again. Ms M said the 
staff member was a bully. 
As a resolution could not be reached, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M is a customer of Barclays and she was trying to pay money into her account at a 
Barclays branch. So Ms M feels strongly that the incident that took place with the other 
customer was ultimately Barclays fault because Ms M says it all stems from the Barclays 
staff members poor attitude and lack of professionalism. 
I am sure that what happened in the branch shook Ms M and was very upsetting for her. 
However, as our Investigator explained to Ms M, this service can only look at the actions of 
Barclays  not the other customer. And this service is not a court, so we do not cross 
examine witnesses. 
This service looks at individual cases to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of each case. So it is not for this service to fine or punish firms  that is for the 
regulator to consider. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Ms M, but having reviewed the submissions and 
available evidence from both parties, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
Unfortunately there is no CCTV available. I find it unusual that CCTV would not be available 
in the area where the banking machine is, although as the altercation may have happened 
away from this area I accept its possible there is no CCTV that covers the area where these 
events took place. That said, any CCTV would not have included audio  so it would not 
have been possible to know what had been said between Ms M, the staff member and the 
other customers  which is largely what Ms M is unhappy about, and which appears to be at 
the heart of what happened.  
So I have before me Ms Ms version of what happened, and the member of staffs version of 
what happened. Its not in dispute that Ms M was visiting the branch to deposit money into 
her account, or that she needed help to do this, or that Ms M asked for assistance or that 
matters then escalated. What is in dispute is whether the staff member was rude and unprofessional as Ms M 
describes. 
I understand Ms M is looking for this service to agree with her version of events without 
question, but Im afraid, based on the available submissions and evidence, I am unable to do 
that as there is not enough here for me to say that her version of what happened is any more 
likely than the version put forward by the staff member. 
However, Barclays appear to have given Ms M the benefit of the doubt and accepted her 
version of events in so far as Ms M did not receive the level of customer service she should 
have done. Barclays therefore apologised for this, and reassured Ms M that feedback would 
be given to the branch manager. 
Having reviewed the submissions, I can see that Barclays did raise the matter to the branch 
managers attention to be dealt with internally. And in the circumstances I think this was 
reasonable for Barclays to do. 
I realise Ms M has said Barclays should have called the police, but theres no obligation on 
them to do that and it would be at the branchs discretion to take such action. And as Ms M 
herself has said, another member of staff came out to help her complete the transaction she 
was trying to make, so it appears that this ended the exchanges between Ms M and the 
other customers. As both Barclays and our Investigator have noted, if Ms M had wished to 
take things further against the other customers in light of the physical escalation and threats 
she says they made to her, this would be something for the police to look into, not this 
service. 
I appreciate Ms M will no doubt be disappointed with my findings, but overall, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think Barclays have been unfair or unreasonable here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman