DRN-2112938
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains about the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its 
business account.
What happened
HSBC closed Is account in July 2019. This was confirmed in writing and I was sent a 
cheque for the balance of the account. 
I complained to HSBC saying it was unaware this was going to happen.
HSBC told I they had written to it three times requesting information as part of their 
safeguarding policy review, but because there was no response the account had been 
closed. I disputed this saying it hadnt received any of the letters, and nor had it seen the 
information HSBC said had been displayed as a banner on its internet banking. HSBC felt 
appropriate steps had been taken so didnt re-open the account.
Remaining unhappy I came to this service where one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She thought that HSBC had taken reasonable steps to make I aware of the 
requirements if it wanted to keep the account. 
I disagreed saying, amongst other things, it didnt feel HSBC made suitable contact prior to 
closing the account. It said that HSBC couldve emailed or called about what was happening. 
Our investigator considered what I had said but still thought HSBC had followed their 
safeguarding process and made contact using two methods of engagement. I didnt accept 
this view, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I has provided a lot of information about its complaint, including around why its unhappy with 
how HSBC acted. I want to reassure I that Ive read and considered everything its provided, 
even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive condensed all of the information into a brief summary 
which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Bearing in mind I says it didnt receive the letters I can completely understand why it thinks 
the account closure was unfair. And I accept its possible it didnt receive them. I see no 
reason why it wouldnt have done what was requested, or at least questioned the matter, if 
itd seen them. But Ive seen copies of the letters and persuasive evidence showing they 
were posted. So Im satisfied they were sent, and they were correctly addressed. I cant say 
why the letters werent received, but by posting them HSBC did what Id expect them to do in 
these circumstances. Ive also taken into consideration that three different letters were sent.
For me to be able to uphold Is complaint Id have to conclude that HSBC did something 
wrong, and I dont believe they did. Theyre entitled to ask their customers for further 
information, to help safeguard all parties, and  in the absence of that being provided  they 
were entitled to close Is account.
I appreciate I thinks HSBC shouldve done more, perhaps by phoning or sending reminders 
by email as well as by letter; but they werent required to do so. And Ive not seen anything 
to make me think HSBC ought to have done something different in this particular case, or 
that there were any errors in the process.
Ive also considered the banner displayed on the online banking. I says it didnt see the 
banner on its internet banking as it wasnt function properly, and Im happy to accept thats 
the case. However, Im satisfied HSBC did display the banner, and so used another method 
of engagement other than just letters to notify I. HSBC werent to know that I wasnt seeing 
the banner.
I thinks HSBC should've tried other means to contact it before taking action to close the 
account. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think that HSBC made any errors 
when they sent the notices, or when closing the account. HSBC didnt have to contact I by 
phone, email or other methods, and they gave notice in accordance with the account terms. 
Considering everything that happened, I'm persuaded that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
when closing I's account. Thats not to say that what happened hasnt been inconvenient for 
I; it clearly has, but Ive seen no errors in how HSBC acted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman