DRN-4240977
The complaint
Mr C has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him fee-paying 
Royalties and Royalties Gold packaged accounts (later renamed as a Select Platinum 
account) in July 1999 and June 2002, respectively.
Mr C has given a number of reasons why they were mis-sold. These include that he was led 
to believe he needed the Royalties account to obtain an overdraft. Mr C also questions why 
the Royalties Gold account was sold to him and has suggested he was mis-led into agreeing 
to it either to increase his overdraft limit, or perhaps to take out a loan.
What happened
RBS upheld Mr Cs complaint about the sale of the Royalties account and refunded the 
account fees Mr C paid for that account. RBS also paid Mr C 8% simple interest per year, 
less deductible tax, on the account fees that were refunded.
RBS did not uphold Mr Cs complaint about the sale of the Royalties Gold account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint. He acknowledged that the complaint about 
the sale of the Royalties account looks to have been resolved, so assessed whether the 
Royalties Gold account had also been mis-sold. He concluded that the Royalties Gold 
account was not likely to have been mis-sold. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the sale of the Royalties Gold 
account, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute, and evidence is incomplete, I need to decide what I think most likely 
happened, based on everything that is available.
Having read through Mr Cs testimony, I have to say that from the outset Mr Cs comments 
about the sale of the Royalties Gold sale appear to be more hypothetical, rather than based 
on his actual recollections of the sale. So Im not able to place as much weight on Mr Cs 
testimony, as I wouldve done had he recalled the specifics of the sale. Although having said 
that, given that the sale took place over twenty years ago, it is understandable if Mr C cant 
recall exactly what happened.
Nevertheless, I have considered all of the evidence that is available, and considered these 
alongside the reasons why Mr C suggests that the Royalties Gold account mayve been mis-
sold. But I dont think there is enough evidence to be able to say that the Royalties Gold 
account was more likely than not mis-sold.
I understand the main reason why Mr C says the Royalties Gold account fees should be 
refunded, is because he says he was led to believe he needed the earlier Royalties account 
to get an overdraft  and RBS upheld that part of his complaint. Mr C says that he still 
thought his ability to obtain an overdraft was governed by him having a packaged account 
when the Royalties Gold account was sold to him.
But I dont think this means that the Royalties Gold account therefore must have been mis-
sold as well. I say this because if Mr C didnt want a packaged account and only agreed to it 
in the mistaken belief he needed one to get an overdraft, then I wouldve expected him to 
have continued with the cheapest packaged account, rather than agree to an even more 
expensive one.
Mr C has suggested that the Royalties Gold account mayve been sold to him on the basis 
that he needed it to increase his overdraft limit, or perhaps to obtain a loan. But Mr C didnt 
change his overdraft limit either around the time he upgraded, or indeed for many years after 
the upgrade. Mr C did however apply for a loan with RBS in June 2002, and as the loan 
application looks to have taken place around the same time as the account upgrade, I think 
the two events were likely to have been linked. 
Mr C has suggested that he mayve been misled into thinking that he had to upgrade so that 
he could obtain the loan. However, at the time, one of the features of the Royalties Gold 
account was that it offered discounts on personal loans.
So in the circumstances, I think its just as likely, if not more so, that Mr C agreed to upgrade 
to the Royalties Gold account so that he could obtain a lower rate of interest on his loan 
application, rather than because he thought he had no choice in the matter. I also note that 
the account included an increased (compared to the Royalties) interest free overdraft of up 
to £250 with preferential terms. And based on what  Mr C has said about his overdraft at the 
time, I think this mayve been another feature that he was attracted to.  
I note that the adjudicator concluded that the Royalties Gold account was most likely sold on 
a non-advised basis. This was based on RBS saying that it, generally speaking, didnt sell 
packaged accounts on an advised basis in 2002. And there was nothing else to indicate that 
it was sold on an advised basis. 
Mr C disagrees with this. He says that banks are notorious for selling products to account 
holders when they visit branch. But just because a bank may sell a product to a consumer 
(as opposed to the consumer asking for the product), doesnt mean that the product was 
sold on an advised basis. For the Royalties Gold account to have been sold on an advised 
basis, I would expect RBS to have assessed Mr Cs insurance needs and then 
recommended the account because it met at least some of his needs. Asking if Mr C would 
be interested in upgrading to the Royalties Gold account so that he could get a lower rate on 
his loan application - which is what I think most likely happened - would not amount to it 
being an advised sale.
Having weighed up the evidence, Ive not seen anything (beyond Mr Cs hypothesising) to 
suggest that the account was sold on an advised basis. Therefore, RBS was not required to 
have checked if the account features were appropriate for Mr Cs specific circumstances.
RBS was required however, to give Mr C important information about the account so that he 
understood what he was agreeing to. 
Due to the lack of evidence that is available I dont know what information Mr C was given 
during the sale. But I do think its likely he was given at least some information about the 
account, otherwise I doubt Mr C wouldve agreed to upgrade (again) if he didnt know 
anything about the account. Furthermore, given that RBS has only limited records from 2002 
and Mr C doesnt remember the sale, its entirely possible that Mr C was provided with 
enough information about the account so he could make an informed decision about whether 
to upgrade or not.
Mr C has said that he didnt need the insurance benefits that were included with the account 
and gives this as another reason why he says it was mis-sold. But as outlined above, it 
seems to me that Mr C likely agreed to the account largely for the banking benefits it came with. So I doubt Mr Cs decision to agree to the Royalties Gold account wouldve been 
affected, had RBS given Mr C more information about insurance benefits that he said he 
didnt need. And as the account was sold as a package, Mr C was unable to pick and 
choose what it came with. So it was not the case that he couldve asked to keep the banking 
benefits and opted out of the insurance benefits. 
Finally, I note that Mr C asks at what point could he reasonably have known that he did not 
require a packaged account to have an overdraft? I have considered Mr Cs point, but I dont 
think what he says means that the Royalties Gold account fees should also be refunded. I 
say this because, even if Mr C still thought he needed his previous Royalties account to 
have his existing overdraft, the evidence indicates he likely agreed to upgrade his account 
again - and therefore agreed to pay the increased monthly fee - because he was attracted to 
a specific feature or features of the account, rather than because he thought he had no 
choice in the matter. 
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say, albeit on balance, that the Royalties 
Gold account was mis-sold. It therefore follows that I dont think RBS should refund the 
Royalties Gold account fees to Mr C.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman