DRN-2182179
The complaint
Mr M says Novaloans Ltd  trading as cash4unow (Nova) - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Nova provided to Mr M between July and August 2019. 
Loan 1 was for £300 and loan 2 was for £600.  Both loans were repayable over monthly 
instalments of between £120.01 and £296.30. At the time of writing this decision, loan 2 is 
outstanding.  
The complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint because they thought given that Mr M only had two loans with 
Nova, it wasnt unfair for Nova to have provided the loans. Mr M disagreed and the case was 
passed for a final decision by an ombudsman. Whilst the case was waiting to be allocated to 
an ombudsman it was reviewed by a second adjudicator. This adjudicator upheld Mr Ms 
complaint and thought the loans shouldnt have been given because had Nova done 
proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr M had other open accounts with high-cost 
lenders in addition to what he had told Nova. This all suggested he was having difficulties 
managing his money.  
Nova disagreed and said it had queried Mr Ms income and expenditure and that Mr Ms 
active balance of debt was not disproportionate to his income. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has now been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Nova says it carried out checks before it lent either of the loans to Mr M. And has provided a 
copy of the results of those checks. But had Nova properly verified the information he had 
provided by asking to see a copy of his bank statements and/or his payslips or bills, it would 
have seen that Mr M had loans with other short-term lenders as well as other borrowing.    
Mr M had exceeded the credit limits on his credit cards. The payments to the other short-
term loans and other loans would have been increasing his monthly outgoings by a 
significant amount and was more than his income. 
This behaviour was mostly likely an indication Mr M was in a cycle of debt which was 
becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain. I think this was shown by the fact the balance 
of loan 2 is outstanding. 
For the reasons explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
If Nova has sold the outstanding debt Nova should buy it back if Nova is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Nova cant buy the debt back, then Nova should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Nova should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 1, not including anything Nova has already refunded.
B) Nova should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Nova should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2 and treat 
any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal on loan 
2. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Nova should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Nova should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Nova 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Nova shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Nova has already written-off.
E) Nova should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
loans 1 and 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nova to take off tax from this interest. Nova must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Novaloans Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman