DRN-2782852
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society has given him consistently poor service, 
failed to make reasonable adjustments and unreasonably closed his account. 
What happened
Mr M visited a Nationwide branch to complete a banking transaction. He was unhappy with 
the service he received  in particular he was unhappy with the time taken to complete the 
transaction, he also felt the member of staff was dressed unprofessionally. Mr M expressed 
his dissatisfaction when leaving the branch. He later called the branch to complain and 
registered a formal complaint with customer services. 
Nationwide considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt agree its member of staff had acted 
unprofessionally or unreasonably. But it noted that when expressing his dissatisfaction, both 
in branch and over the phone, Mr M had made inappropriate and derogatory comments 
about its staff. It said as it had previously warned Mr M about his behaviour, it had now 
decided to end its banking relationship with him and would be closing his account. It initially 
gave him three weeks notice of the account closure to enable him to arrange a new account 
elsewhere. It later extended the deadline by a week to ensure the account switch was 
completed. 
Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides decision and referred a complaint to our service. He 
noted a series of incidents with the branch where he felt hed been treated unfairly. He 
explained he has a heart condition and suffers from anxiety. He felt Nationwide had failed to 
take account of his disability or make reasonable adjustments, as required under the 
Equality Act 2010 (the Act). He specifically recalled an occasion where he said he was 
ridiculed when he presented a CredAbility Access Card detailing his disability.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. He noted Nationwide had 
previously referred Mr M to its specialist support team when hed informed it of his disability, 
but that Mr M had not contacted the team. He felt this offer of assistance was reasonable in 
the circumstances. He was also persuaded that Mr M had behaved unreasonably when 
speaking with members of staff over the phone. So, he concluded Nationwide had acted 
fairly and reasonably by closing the account, which it was entitled to do under the terms of 
the account. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. He didnt think our investigator had properly considered his complaint that 
members of staff had acted unprofessionally towards him and had allowed personal feelings 
to impact the service he received. He was also unhappy our investigator had relied on 
information Mr M believed to have been shared with Nationwide in confidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision. 
Its clear from what Mr M has told us and Nationwide that he feels very strongly about his
complaint. I appreciate that hes upset with the way hes been treated by various members of 
staff and Nationwide as a whole. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied 
that Nationwide has done something wrong or had treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. 
And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
Reasonable adjustments
Mr M says he feels Nationwide discriminated against him and failed to make reasonable 
adjustments as required under the Act. I can understand why Mr M feels so strongly about 
this subject. And hes correct that Nationwide is under a duty to make reasonable 
adjustments for customers who have a disability, as defined by the Act. But its not my role to 
say whether Nationwide has acted unlawfully or not, or if its breached its duties set out in 
the Act  thats a matter for the courts to decide. My role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. But to do so I have considered the provisions of the Act. 
Mr M has explained he has a heart condition and suffers from anxiety which means he tires 
quickly and can also become agitated. Because of this he prefers to conduct his business at 
a counter rather than at an ATM. He feels this was a reasonable adjustment Nationwide 
could have made. 
Having considered the evidence from both sides, it seems to be accepted that Mr M was 
encouraged to use ATMs at times to complete his transactions. I dont think this was 
unreasonable, particularly given the need to observe social distancing rules and the desire to 
limit face-to-face contacts within branch. Nationwide has explained that staff were available 
to assist Mr M to complete his transactions using the ATMs if hed needed additional 
support. But from the examples Im aware of, Mr M was able to carry out his transactions at 
a counter. Indeed, the incident that led to the account being closed took place at a counter. 
So, it seems that Nationwide did make reasonable adjustments to allow Mr M to conduct his 
banking in a way that best suited his needs. I understand Mr M was unhappy about having to 
justify his reasons for using the counter, as he didnt feel he needed to explain himself. But I 
cant see that hed ever specifically informed branch staff that he needed to use a counter for 
all his transactions. In any event, I dont think it was unreasonable for branch staff to suggest 
that Mr M complete his transactions at the ATMs or to ask him why hed like to use the 
counter. I cant see he was put at a substantial disadvantage or was presented with 
unreasonable barriers that prevented him being able to use the counters, as he was able to 
complete his transactions in this way.
Nationwide has shown that when it became aware of Mr Ms disability it offered him the 
details of a specialist team that could provide him with additional support. Although Mr M 
never utilised the service, I think the offer was reasonable. 
I understand that Mr M was particularly upset by one incident where he felt hed been 
ridiculed by a member of staff, as they didnt recognise his CredAbility Access Card. 
Nationwide has provided a report completed following a complaint Mr M made in July 2020. 
The report says Mr M had attended the branch to send a payment. He was advised to use 
an external ATM, which he refused as he wanted to be deal with his transaction inside the 
branch. The report notes Mr M was unhappy when he was asked to wait for his turn in the 
queue before entering the branch. An altercation then occurred between Mr M and another 
member of the public who disagreed with the way Mr M was speaking with staff. The report notes that Mr M began to shout and swear, and it was at this point he presented his 
CredAbility card. The report notes that the branch staff didnt recognise the card. The report 
notes Mr M flew off the handle when he was challenged about his behaviour. He later 
complained about the attitude of the branch staff. 
I can see why it wouldve been very frustrating for Mr M that his CredAbility card wasnt 
recognised, and potentially wasnt given the attention it required. The purpose of the card 
was to make discussing his disability, and the impact on his daily activities, more 
straightforward. But as I was not present at the time, and without the benefit of some form of 
recording, its impossible for me to know exactly what was said or by whom. While its 
possible the member of staff intended to ridicule Mr M, I think its more likely there was 
simply a misunderstanding about what the card was and what actions the branch should 
take as a result of it. It seems that at the time Mr M presented his card tensions were already 
raised and this may have made it harder for both parties to understand each other. While I 
understand Mr M felt ridiculed, I dont have enough clear evidence to say that branch staff 
acted inappropriately towards him. 
It seems clear that the relationship between Mr M and the branch staff had broken down 
over a period of time. I understand Mr M has some thoughts on why this may be and 
believes members of staff have allowed their personal opinions to influence their interactions 
with him. But the evidence doesnt support this. While I can understand Mr M didnt feel 
branch staff were as helpful and accommodating as they could be, I cant conclude from the 
evidence presented that they treated him unfairly. 
Overall, while I can appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling, I dont think Nationwide has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards him. 
Account closure 
Its evident that the relationship between Mr M and the branch staff had broken down 
irreparably by the time Mr M referred his complaint to us. And it seems both parties were 
happy to end their banking relationship. Mr M has since opened an account elsewhere and 
does not want his account reopened. But he does feel he should be compensated for the 
way Nationwide treated him. Ive therefore considered if Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably when it closed his account. 
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
The account terms enable Nationwide to close an account, without notice, if a customer has 
been threatening or abusive towards its staff. 
I appreciate Mr M does not believe he displayed threatening or abusive behaviour towards 
Nationwides staff. He accepts that he voiced his displeasure with the service hed received. 
But he thinks Nationwide should have accepted his comments as honest feedback. I agree 
customers should be free to raise concerns and complaints about the service they receive. 
And they shouldnt feel restricted in doing so by the threat of having their account closed. But 
that does not mean a customer can be rude or aggressive when raising their concerns.  
People have different and varying degrees of tolerance when it comes to feeling threatened 
or abused. And its not my role to dictate what Nationwide should consider threatening or 
abusive behaviour. Its entitled to decide what behaviour it will tolerate and what it wont. But 
I would expect to see that it has a policy in place which details how it will determine if a customer has been threatening or abusive, and what steps it will take in this scenario. Id 
expect to see this policy applied consistently and acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. 
I can see Nationwide have followed a policy here which is specific to incidents involving 
verbal and aggressive behaviour. As part of this process Nationwide compiled a report about 
the events that took place, took statements from relevant members of staff and then 
forwarded the report to a senior colleague to decide what action to take. 
The policy sets out that Nationwide will seek to close a customers account if it has 
previously issued a warning about the customers behaviour.
Nationwide has provided evidence that it first identified that Mr M had acted unreasonably 
towards members of its staff in July 2020. At this time, it noted that Mr Ms inappropriate 
comments and intimidating behaviour had made its staff uncomfortable. It asked Mr M to 
remain calm and conduct himself with normal restraint in future dealings with the bank. It 
explained if he didnt, Nationwide may close his account without notice. While I feel 
Nationwides warning could have been more explicit about which of Mr Ms behaviours it 
found unacceptable, having spoken to Mr M about it Im satisfied he understood what 
Nationwide found unacceptable, although he disagreed that it was unacceptable. 
While I appreciate Mr M may not have agreed with Nationwides approach, and may have 
felt its response was excessive, Im satisfied it provided him with a fair warning of what may 
happen if he continued to behave in a way it found unacceptable. Im also satisfied that 
Nationwide fairly and reasonably followed its policy when it sought to close his account when 
it considered Mr M had behaved unreasonably again. 
The decision to ultimately close Mr Ms account was made by a member of staff independent 
of the events which occurred at the branch. I hope this reassures Mr M that the decision to 
close his account was impartial and was not driven by personal opinions of him. In any 
event, I think Nationwide followed a fair process when arriving at its decision. 
I can see that when deciding what action to take, Nationwide was conscious of Mr Ms 
vulnerabilities due to his ill-health, and this was factored into its decision making. As a result 
it gave Mr M notice before closing his account, and indeed extended the notice to allow him 
to open a new account. I think this was a reasonable step to take and was in line with 
Nationwides policy. 
Having carefully considered everything, while I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling and why 
he feels hes been treated unfairly, I dont believe Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking it to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman