DRN-3660750
The complaint
Mrs M complains, through her representative, that Neovision Wealth Management Limited 
gave her unsuitable advice to transfer three personal pension plans (PPP) to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), and invest the funds using a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
What happened
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of 
the complaint to both parties in June 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint and the reasons why he thought it should be upheld were set out in that 
assessment.
But in summary, it was recorded at the time of the advice that Mrs M was in her early forties; 
was employed; had an annual salary of around £22,000; jointly owned her property which 
was mortgaged; and had a dependent relatives property valued at £90,000 which had an 
outstanding mortgage of £45,000. No other assets were listed. 
Mrs Ms objectives were noted as:
consolidating her three PPPs together to achieve better and more stable growth
flexible drawdown as she didnt like the idea of an annuity
to ensure 100% of her fund was payable as death benefits rather than 50% she 
believed was the case on her current PPPs.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed which confirmed Mrs M was comfortable 
with the fourth most volatile fund out of five. In answering a series of questions she also 
confirmed she would not change her portfolio even if its value fell by 20% in a year, as she 
understood that investments can have occasional negative annual returns and she had a 
higher chance of reaching my investment goals if I stick with my portfolio over the long 
term. She was comfortable that investments frequently experience large losses in value 
if there is a potential for higher returns.
Neovisions adviser contacted the three pension providers to obtain the plans details. The 
values were recorded as approximately £43,000, £11,000 and £1,900. There were no 
penalties or exit fees. 
The adviser completed his research and presented it to Mrs M by phone on 11 April
2017. The adviser recommended Mrs M transfer all three PPPs to a Self-Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP), and have the money invested through a discretionary fund 
manager.
On the call the adviser said the proposition was designed to shield you away from that
(volatility)and give you a nice steady growth on your money.
The adviser went on to say the charges were fairly similar on each existing plan, but they 
would have undisclosed charges on them which they would never know. He said under a 
single new arrangement there would be one charging structure which was easier to 
understand than three plans.
The adviser went on to ask Mrs M if she was a more adventurous investor to which
she said Yes, I think so, ultimately I just want whats best for the future.
Mrs M signed the transfer paperwork on 19 April 2017.
A Financial Planning Report sent under cover of a letter dated 26 April 2017 said, amongst 
other things, that Mrs M:
was unhappy with the poor investment returns on her existing plans and lack of 
advice given
received very little paperwork from the existing providers so had little idea of what 
the performance of the funds has been
wanted to look at consolidating her plans into one scheme offering flexibility, with the 
ability to deduct an ongoing advice charge direct from the plan.
The report said that although Mrs M had no professional qualifications or experience in 
financial areas, given shed previously held assets (which the investigator presumed as the 
existing pensions), the adviser categorised her as someone with a reasonable knowledge of 
investments. The adviser also confirmed This opinion is based on you not having any 
personal experience of the unpredictable fluctuations in capital value because of sustained 
exposure to a stock market-linked investment.
The adviser went on to state: The impact of a potential loss to capital in a falling stock 
market is therefore not known to you. You are therefore deemed vulnerable in relation to 
financial products and investment products. It was also recorded that Mrs M didnt have any
capacity for loss  you do not have the ability to absorb any negative financial outcome 
that may arise from making an investment. But it stated she was willing to accept the risks 
in exchange for achieving flexibility and superior death benefits.
Mrs Ms attitude to risk was documented as Capital Growth. A Capital Growth profile
was described as:
The Capital Growth investor is willing to accept high risk and chance of loss to
achieve higher returns on his or her investment. Significant losses over an extended period 
may prompt the Capital Growth Investor to shift to a less risky investment.
The adviser recommended Mrs M transfer all three PPPs to a SIPP in order to:
place your investment under the supervision of a Discretionary Portfolio Service as 
your preference is for a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to look after and manage 
your investments
improve the diversification of the pension funds held within the retirement plan
give you access to a wide range of funds and fund managers that you can switch 
between for no extra cost
give access to E-services to improve the level of service that you receive
provide the potential for superior long-term performance. Albeit, you fully understand that future returns will not necessarily conform to those of the past
offer potentially superior death benefits and maximum succession planning.
The alternative options of transferring to another PPP or a new Stakeholder pension plan 
were discounted due to the lack of investment opportunity and wanting to appoint an 
authorised investment manager.
The charges were disclosed as an initial advice fee of 3% (£1,683), Annual Product Charge 
of £150, Ongoing advice fee of 0.75%, and a DFM fee of 0.9%. 
The transfer took place as recommended. However, due to the sharp fall in its value
Mrs M sought advice from another financial adviser which resulted in a transfer to another 
provider about 12 months later.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt seen any 
evidence that persuaded him Mrs M was actively seeking advice to consolidate her existing 
plans. He said she was first contacted via a cold call (by an introducer) which subsequently 
led to a discussion with the adviser at Neovision. The investigator said during his 
recommendation phone call, the adviser asked Mrs M about consolidating her
plans to which she replied  Well whatevers easier to be honest, I mean, I dont really
understand itif its beneficial having three, or two, or even one. He said these werent the 
words of someone who had decided they wanted to consolidate their pension plans. The 
investigator said he thought the adviser used consolidation as a reason to support his 
recommendation.
The investigator referred to the regulators Quality of advice on pension switching report 
published in 2008. He said the report provided some examples of poor advice including:
A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have fulfilled the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
the flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence this option was 
needed).
The investigator said the report clearly outlined what should be considered, and cost was a 
factor, as well as suitable reasons for transfer.
The investigator said the transfer to the SIPP resulted in higher costs. Mrs Ms existing plans 
were recorded as having combined charges of £352 a year. This compared to
the total annual charge on the SIPP (including the DFM fee) of £1,060, being £708 a year
more expensive. But it was only disclosed as £302.58 more expensive in the suitability 
report, as the adviser didnt include the ongoing adviser fee at 0.75%. So the true cost 
wouldnt have been immediately clear to Mrs M.
The investigator said the new plan would have to perform better than Mrs Ms existing plans 
just to cover the initial and ongoing costs. He said Mrs M wasnt a particularly experienced 
investor. Shed said in her own words I dont really understand it. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded Mrs M was seeking, or needed, the range of investment options available through 
a more expensive SIPP, for what was a total transfer value in the region of £56,000. Nor was 
he persuaded that the additional costs associated with a DFM arrangement were warranted for a fund value of this size. Mrs Ms existing providers offered sufficient investment flexibility 
and for the level of risk appropriate to Mrs M. He said there was no urgent requirement to 
switch to a plan that offered flexi-access drawdown as Mrs M was only in her very early 
forties at the time of advice. 
The investigator said in any event, one of her existing plans offered the flexibility of income 
drawdown as well as the ability to hold up to 50 investments at the same time. He said whilst 
adviser charging wasnt available on that particular plan, it was available on other plans 
offered by that provider. And if flexibility was required nearer to retirement, Mrs M couldve 
looked into that option at the time.
The investigator said it was recorded that Mrs M thought only 50% of the existing plan 
values would be paid as death benefits. The investigator said the adviser shouldve 
explained the position to Mrs M, and put her mind at rest that her existing PPPs all offered 
100% return of fund on her death. And there was no need to transfer to achieve this.
The adviser recorded that Mrs M was unhappy with the poor investment returns on her 
existing plans and lack of advice given. But then said Mrs M had received very little 
paperwork from the existing providers so had little idea of what the performance of the 
funds has been.
The investigator said in his opinion the recommended investment strategy was also 
unsuitable. He said some of the answers to the attitude to risk questions, which Mrs M had 
no recollection of answering, suggested she wasnt that concerned about volatility. However 
he noted the suitability letter contradicted this. It said Mrs M wanted to move to a less volatile 
fund, and didnt want to be so heavily invested into equities as she was aware how the value 
could be affected by swings in share values. 
The adviser determined Mrs M to have a Capital Growth attitude to risk. This was 
described as suitable for an investor willing to accept high risk. Yet Mrs M had little previous 
investment knowledge or experience. She had little to do with the existing plans, and had, 
according to the adviser, received very little information about them in the past. Mrs M also 
had no capacity for loss and wasnt in a position to take a higher level of risk. No other cash, 
investment or pension assets were recorded on file. So the advice exposed 100% of Mrs Ms  
retirement benefits to a level of risk that wasnt suitable for her circumstances and 
experience.
The investigator said Mrs Ms existing PPPs were all invested in what he considered were 
more suitable funds.
The adviser had recommended that Mrs M invest in the Growth Investment Portfolio which 
was targeted at investors with a risk profile of at least 4.5, as calculated with reference to the 
SRRI (Synthetic Risk and Reward Indicator) which is a rising scale of risk from one to seven. 
It was also aimed at those with a medium capacity for loss.
The investigator said the recommended portfolios documentation referred to it containing 
certain investments that might have liquidity restraints, might be difficult to value objectively 
and might be incorrectly priced. The recommendation also effectively placed all of Mrs Ms 
pension in one basket. The investigator said he thought Mrs M didnt have the knowledge, 
experience, ability, or capacity to accept the associated level of risk and potential loss 
associated with the portfolio. So he thought the recommendation was unsuitable.
Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that there was sufficiently good reason to transfer 
to a plan with substantially higher charges. He noted that the transfer options in the 
suitability letter made no mention of Mrs M staying where she was and investigating options with her existing providers. The investigator had said he was satisfied that Mrs M wouldve 
remained invested in her three existing plans if shed been advised to do so. 
The investigator went on to set out how he thought Neovision should calculate and pay fair 
compensation to Mrs M.
Neovision didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It said, in summary, that it was 
clear that Mrs M wished to consolidate her three pensions and have the flexibility of drawing 
her benefits in the future by way of flexi-access drawdown. She wanted to benefit from the 
superior death benefits from drawdown. It thought the investigator had missed and 
inaccurately represented this in his summary.
It said the original pension plans didnt offer drawdown options so regulated advice had to be 
given. If the advice hadnt been given, Mrs M would still be in pension policies not meeting 
her requirements, and it thought appropriate advice had been given.
Neovision said Mrs M was placed in the correct risk category following completion of the risk 
profile questionnaire. It said the new portfolio was in line with her existing portfolio. It said 
Mrs M didnt like the fact that her pension fell in value over a short period of time, and
took the unusual step of transferring it a few months later. The losses she incurred were in 
line with the potential losses highlighted in the risk profile questionnaire, and something that 
she said she would be willing accept. Therefore it said Neovision wasnt at fault. The FCA 
had clearly said that investment performance wasnt grounds for a complaint. Neovision said 
it was strongly of the view that the advice was suitable and Mrs Ms complaint was invalid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
Neovision was providing regulated investment advice to Mrs M.  It was required to provide 
suitable advice, which is reflected in the Regulators rules on providing such advice. These 
rules were set out in COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook), and in particular in COBS 
9.2 - assessing suitability.
For the reasons set out by the investigator, Im not persuaded that the advice to transfer the 
pensions (technically known as a switch here) was suitable in the circumstances. As the 
investigator explained, the new plan had higher charges than Mrs Ms existing plans. 
Therefore there needed to be good reasons to switch away from those plans to offset the 
higher charges associated with the new pension arrangement. As the investigator explained, 
this is reflected in the regulators Quality of advice on pension switching report published in 
2008.
The reasons provided to switch included to improve diversification, give access to a greater 
range of funds, and offer potentially superior death benefits. However, for the reasons set 
out by the investigator, in my view the new plan didnt provide any material improvement on 
the existing plans in these respects in the period up to taking benefits. And given the 
additional costs incurred, Mrs M could have waited until she approached retirement date to 
decide if she wanted to switch plans to access flexible benefits. 
One of the other main reasons to switch was to place Mrs Ms investment with a DFM. 
However Mrs M had a modest fund value; had little experience of investments and wasnt a particularly sophisticated or knowledgeable investor. I dont think she had the necessary 
experience or knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the transaction and 
make an informed decision. 
It was also recorded that Mrs M had little capacity for loss. And this was consistent with her 
circumstances at the time. In my view exposing Mrs Ms pension to the significant risks 
presented by the DFM portfolio wasnt suitable in itself  Mrs M wasnt in a position to be 
able to financially bear the investment risks presented by the recommended DFM portfolio. 
Accordingly, for the reasons set out by the investigator and as I have set out above, Im not 
persuaded that the advice to switch pensions and invest through the DFM was suitable in 
the particular circumstances. 
Im satisfied Mrs Ms losses flow from the unsuitable advice given by Neovision Wealth 
Management Limited.  But for the unsuitable advice to switch her pensions to the SIPP, Mrs 
M's losses wouldnt have happened. I dont think there was a good reason to switch, and Im 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Neovision Wealth Management Limited to 
compensate Mrs M in full for those losses.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs M as close as
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think with suitable advice Mrs M would have remained with her previous providers. Im 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
What should Neovision Wealth Management Limited do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly Neovision Wealth Management Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers until the date the SIPP was transferred. If the 
actual value was greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the 
notional value was greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If there is a loss, the amount of the loss should be adjusted from the end 
date (when the SIPP was transferred) up to the date of settlement by reference to the 
performance of the new SIPP. 
If there is a loss, Neovision Wealth Management Limited should pay into Mrs M's 
pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Neovision Wealth Management Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Neovision Wealth Management Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs 
M's pension plan, Neovision Wealth Management Limited should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid on its receipt.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal 20%. However, if Mrs M would have been able to take a tax- 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced following the 
unsuitable advice to transfer, and the further concern and inconvenience of having to 
seek advice to correct the situation.
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format..
investment 
name status benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional return 
on loss from 
end date 
SIPP transferred Notional 
value from 
previous 
providersOriginal 
date of 
switch 
in 2017Date of 
switch 
to new 
SIPPThe return achieved 
on the new SIPP from 
the date switched to it 
to the date of 
settlement
 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs M's investment had it remained with the previous providers
until the end date. Neovision should request the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Neovision total all those payments and 
deduct that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If a previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Neovision will need to 
determine a fair value for Mrs M's investment. In those circumstances it should use the 
following benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think Mrs M would have remained with her original pensions if shed been given 
suitable advice to do so. If a previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a reasonable proxy for 
those returns.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher. Although 
it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mrs M's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I order Neovision Wealth Management 
Limited calculates and pays any compensation due to Mrs M on the basis I have outlined 
above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman