DRN-3117956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about advice they received from Coutts & Company to invest 
£300,000 in a collective investment called the Orbita Capital Return Strategy. They say that 
advice was unsuitable because the investment represented more risk than they had been 
willing to take.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were existing clients of Coutts. In November 2006 they approached Coutts for 
advice on what to do with £300,000. Their financial circumstances at the time were that they 
had significant other investments and cash on deposit, as well as a number of properties. 
The suitability letter they received said that Mr and Mrs M wanted to invest in hedge funds 
as an asset class, with a bias towards capital preservation. The letter said they wanted to 
invest for capital appreciation and were not looking for an income. And it said they had a 
cautious attitude to risk for this element of their wealth. The letter said that they also wanted 
to provide diversification to their existing portfolio. 
The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs M invest £300,000 in the Orbita Capital Return 
Strategy  an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). He said that this investment 
provided access to a diversified portfolio of leading hedge funds, with a spread of different 
strategies which would provide them with diversification. He explained that the funds 
strategy was diversified across a range of external managers who are employing arbitrage 
and other investment strategies in a variety of bond and equity markets. And he said that 
the fund was designed to offer a return that is attractive relative to cash and bonds, with a 
low risk profile when compared to equities. It said that in a downturn in the equity market, the 
strategy should continue to produce a stable stream of positive returns while in a strongly 
rising equity market, it wouldnt expect it to match equity returns. 
The adviser explained that Coutts designated this investment as a cautious risk investment. 
He pointed out that there were specific instructions in relation to redemptions, including that 
holdings could only be redeemed on a quarterly basis and there may therefore be a delay in 
settling any redemption requests. 
In 2020 the fund was suspended and Coutts notified Mr and Mrs M of this, so they 
complained. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He concluded that it should be upheld. 
He said that the financial report from November 2006 showed that Mr and Mrs M were 
looking for advice to do with this specific sum of money  they were not looking for a broader 
review of their overall investments. For this sum, Mr and Mrs M had a cautious attitude to 
risk  and they were prepared to invest for a minimum of 5 years. He said that in the report 
the Orbita Capital Return Strategy was described as a cautious investment and there was 
insufficient information about the specific risks associated with an unregulated collective 
investment of this nature. As a result, he thought that the advice Mr and Mrs M had received 
was unsuitable, and concluded that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed with the investigator, but Coutts didnt. It said that given the 
characteristics of the fund it was entirely proper for the adviser at the time to recommend it 
as he did. It provided a fact sheet that it said compared the performance of the Orbita 
Capital Return Strategy versus two frequently used diversified equity and fixed income 
indices. It said that this factsheet showed that the fund demonstrated lower volatility than 
both indices. It said that in other periods of high market stress the fund delivered consistent 
returns with limited drawdowns. It said that this was attributable to the cautious investment 
policy by its investment manager, using diversified strategies to reduce volatility while 
achieving consistent returns. Coutts said that the risk/return profile of the fund and its 
behaviour during the majority of financial stress events is conform to the initial investment 
objectives. 
It acknowledged that unregulated collective investments could be volatile, illiquid or 
speculative  but it said that this depended on the underlying assets and investment 
strategy. It said that regulated investments could also show these characteristics. 
It said that the issue which triggered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was to do with the 
suspension of the fund in March 2020. It said that this was an exceptional event not linked to 
any investment concerns such as volatility or illiquidity. It explained that this was driven by 
the funds directors in order to protect the interests of investors as a whole, and this couldve 
happened to any type of fund  low risk or high risk, regulated or unregulated. It said that this 
event, which occurred many years after the original recommendation was not enough to 
affect the classification of the Orbita fund, or the suitability of the original advice. 
Coutts reiterated Mr and Mrs Ms objectives for the fund, and emphasised that Mr and Mrs M 
were looking for diversification, which this investment gave them. 
Coutts also acknowledged that there wasnt anything specific in the suitability letter about 
the risks which this fund represented  however it said that the complaint was based on the 
suspension of the fund in March 2020. It said that given the remoteness of the suspension 
happening [it considered] a general reference in the letter to the client not receiving their 
investment back [was] reasonable. 
Coutts emphasised Mr and Mrs Ms experience in investing and said that a meeting in June 
2014, they both confirmed that they were happy with the investments they held and that 
these were in line with their risk profile. Coutts said that Mr and Mrs M confirmed that they 
were prepared to hold investments where the risk category could be higher or lower than 
their agreed risk category providing their overarching risk profile was achieved. Their 
overarching risk profile was moderately risk averse. Coutts concluded by explaining that the 
recommendation to invest in the Orbita fund was considered as part of a bank-wide review of 
historical investment advice  this was overseen by a third party and reported to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said that the outcome of this review was that the 
advice given to Mr and Mrs M was suitable for them  and a letter explaining this was sent to 
them in March 2015. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I should start by saying that a lot of Couttss reply to the investigators letter is based on the 
historical performance of this particular fund. But I dont agree thats a fair and reasonable 
way of establishing whether the fund was suitable for Mr and Mrs M  in the same way that 
we wouldnt conclude that an investment is unsuitable purely because its performance has 
been unsatisfactory. In my view, the issue of suitability is resolved by reference to what Mr 
and Mrs M had explained they wanted from their investment, and the risk they were 
prepared to take in order to achieve their objective. 
In looking at the recommendation letter and the summary of what they told the adviser they 
wanted, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M were after an investment that carried the level of 
risk to their capital that this investment did. Im satisfied that despite their overall wealth, and 
the other investments which they held in their broader portfolio, they had a specific objective 
in mind with this particular sum of money  and that was moderately risk averse or 
cautious. I think this is key, because in my view, by specifying their risk tolerance with this 
sum, Mr and Mrs M expected to be advised accordingly. 
Whilst I acknowledge there is reference to Mr and Mrs M broader portfolio, and other 
investments, in relation to risk Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were looking at this sum in 
isolation. In this regard, I note that Mr and Mrs M dispute ever indicating they were interested 
in hedge funds  in the absence of a fact-find or any other evidence, I cant resolve this issue 
of fact. Whilst I note what Mr and Mrs M have said, I would say that having received a 
recommendation letter that specifically said that this is what they wanted, I wouldve 
expected them to query why the letter was saying they had asked for advice on hedge funds 
if that wasnt something they had said. 
However, Im not persuaded this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. It isnt 
uncommon for consumers to have ideas about where theyd like their money to be invested 
without fully appreciating the risks involved. It was for the adviser to reconcile what the 
consumers said they were looking for, versus the amount of risk they were willing to take 
with this money. As part of this, it was for the adviser to probe and understand, in far more 
detail, what the consumers understood by hedge funds and whether they appreciated the 
related risks of funds which were not regulated in the UK. Ive seen insufficient evidence that 
this was done. In my view had the adviser taken such further steps, it wouldve become clear 
that this investment was not what Mr and Mrs M were looking for
Furthermore, Im also not persuaded that the investment was properly described to Mr and 
Mrs M in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading. Despite what Coutts has said, Im not 
persuaded it was ever accurate to describe this particular UCIS as a cautious investment. 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has been clear that it considers a UCIS a high risk 
investment which is unlikely to be suitable for the majority of retail investors. This is because 
the fact that it wasnt regulated meant that the fund manager had a much broader discretion 
as to the investment strategies it would use, how the fund would be managed and what 
assets it would invest in. 
And Im not persuaded that the specific risks relating to this particular fund were actually 
discussed or raised with the consumers at the time. 
For example, the funds factsheet explicitly says that the product is illiquid by nature  and 
this feature does not seem compatible with a moderately risk averse consumer which Mr 
and Mrs M were. 
I acknowledge there was a brief mention of the specific ways in which this investment could 
be redeemed  but crucially, the adviser never used the word illiquid when describing this 
investment to Mr and Mrs M. This made it sound like the only issue with redeeming was the 
timing and speed of redemptions. So I dont agree that the risk of Mr and Mrs M not having 
access to their money at all was properly disclosed. Im also not persuaded that the underlying strategies and investments were aligned with a 
cautious investment, which is what Mr and Mrs M were told they were buying. The key 
features document of the fund explains, among other risks, that it used complex underlying 
instruments (such as derivatives), had underlying sub-advisors which were not required to 
make public disclosures regarding their performance, and was exposed to currency 
fluctuations  in addition to the illiquidity mentioned above. In my view, taking all these risks 
into account, describing this investment as a cautious one wasnt accurate.  
So overall, I dont agree that this investment was cautious or carried a low risk of capital 
loss. And for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were clear their 
appetite for risk with this element of their wealth was cautious or low. This means that the 
recommendation to invest £300,000 in this particular UCIS was not suitable for them. In my 
view, this means that Mr and Mrs M shouldve been advised to invest differently. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must Coutts do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, Coutts must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Coutts should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Orbita Capital 
Return Still exists and 
liquidFor half the 
investment: Date of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final Strategy FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdecision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Coutts should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Coutts totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs M into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs M would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs M could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Coutts & Company should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Coutts & Company should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman