DRN-3460160
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) blocked and closed 
its account, without explaining why. And that HSBC called in Ls Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
and offset the funds in Ls account against the outstanding balance. 
L is represented by its director, Mr S who claims HSBCs actions were motivated by 
discrimination on the grounds of his nationality.
What happened
The background of this case is familiar to both parties, and our investigator has already set 
out the full details of Ls complaint, so the below is a summary outline of the complaint.
L entered into a BBL in the sum of £9,000 on 8 June 2020, which was in addition to further 
borrowing L had with HSBC by way of a credit card. In October 2020, HSBC blocked Ls 
account while it carried out a review. Mr S called to find out what was happening, but HSBC 
didnt tell him why it had blocked Ls account, or how long the review would take. 
When he complained, HSBC issued a final response letter simply saying it was complying 
with its UK statutory requirements and that it would contact him if it needed further 
information. It later issued a 2nd final response letter on 10 February 2021, saying it had 
acted in line with its terms of business, and with bank policy.
On 5 November 2020, HSBC wrote to L saying it could no longer provide L with banking 
services, and giving two months notice of its intention to close the account. On 28 
November 2020, Mr S wrote to HSBC with further complaints/requests about Ls account, 
and other accounts he controlled. He wanted to know why HSBC had blocked and closed 
the accounts he controlled, and he wanted the funds in all his accounts to be transferred to 
an account he held with another bank. He also wanted HSBC to setup various direct debits 
from his accounts.
HSBC didnt comply with Mr Ss requests, so he brought Ls complaint to our service. After 
he did so, HSBC terminated Ls BBL and offset the funds in Ls account against the balance 
due (£9,000).
Our investigator looked at Ls complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was satisfied HSBC 
was entitled to block and close Ls account. She said it was entitled to decline Mr Ss 
requests, given the account was blocked. And she was satisfied HSBC had acted in line with 
the terms of the BBL when it called in the loan and settled the debt using Ls funds.
She said HSBC didnt have to tell Mr S why it had blocked and closed Ls account and called 
in his borrowings. And that she was satisfied HSBCs motivations were legitimate, and not 
motivated by discrimination. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. He didnt think HSBC had acted fairly, so he 
asked for an Ombudsman to review matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has set out the impact HSBCs actions had on him and his business and what he wants 
it to do to put things right. But, if Im to make an award in favour of L I have to be persuaded 
that HSBC has acted unfairly or did something wrong. And, having looked at the evidence 
both parties have submitted, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of these obligations, sometimes 
banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain documents or 
information.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to block Ls account, 
and keep it blocked until the account was closed. HSBC has explained that it was acting in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Ls account and, having reviewed the same, Im 
satisfied that it was and that it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in 
doing so. Because the account was blocked, it wouldnt have been appropriate for HSBC to 
reinstate direct debits or disburse funds in the account, so Im satisfied HSBC did nothing 
wrong in declining Mr Ss requests.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps HSBC took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Ls account, with which both HSBC and L had to comply, say that HSBC can 
close Ls accounts as long as it gives at least two months notice. And I can see HSBC gave 
L two months notice in its letter dated 5 November 2020, so it complied with its contractual 
obligations. That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award 
in Ls favour.
Bounce Back Loan
After HSBC closed Ls account, it sent a letter saying it would be recalling the £9,000 BBL it 
had paid to L. When it did so, HSBC offset the balance (£7,012.18) in Ls account against 
the BBL.
Ive looked at the terms of the contract, Ive listened to what Mr S has said, and Ive looked 
at the evidence HSBC submitted to explain why it was entitled to offset the account funds 
against the loan. The terms and conditions of the loan set out the circumstances in which 
HSBC can demand repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can 
offset funds maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. 
Having considered all of the evidence both parties have provided, Im not persuaded HSBC 
made a mistake or breached the terms of Ls contract. HSBC is entitled to take such actions 
in certain circumstances, and indeed our Service would expect it to do so when those 
circumstances are present. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to apply 
the funds in Ls account against the loan debt in the manner it did.I appreciate Mr S wants to know why HSBC blocked and closed Ls account and recalled the 
BBL. However, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for HSBC to disclose 
the reasons for its actions. So, I cant reasonably force it to do so if it doesnt want to. I know 
this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive given 
wont answer many of the questions he had. But I hope he can take some comfort from what 
Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing HSBCs actions.
With regard to the credit card, Im satisfied HSBC treated L fairly. L didnt make payments as 
they fell due. L failed to make payments when they fell due, so HSBC issued a default notice 
on 7 October 2021. In light of the missed payments, HSBC was entitled to default the 
account, in line with its terms of business.
Discrimination
Finally, in terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted 
unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each 
particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that HSBCs actions were motivated only by its duty to comply with its contractual, legal and 
regulatory obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman