DRN-3018782
The complaint
Mrs M complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr P, that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited unfairly avoided Mr Ps Mortgage Protection Insurance policy and refused to pay a 
life claim.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr P applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with 
Legal and General. The policy provided £300,000 life cover over a 24-year term. Cover 
started on 16 October 2017.
Mr P sadly died in February 2019, having suffered a pulmonary embolism. Mrs M started a 
claim with Legal and General later that month. While assessing the claim Legal and General 
became aware that Mr P had been diagnosed with polycystic kidney disease (PKD) before 
applying for cover. It said Mr P should have disclosed this in response to clear questions 
asked in the application. It said had Mr P disclosed hed been diagnosed with PKD it 
wouldnt have offered him any cover. So, it refused the claim, cancelled the policy from the 
start and refunded the premiums Mr P had paid. 
Mrs M complained. She said that Mr P had disclosed that he suffered from high blood 
pressure which he understood to be connected to PKD. Hed also given Legal and General 
consent to obtain his medical records at the point of application, but it had not done so. 
Legal and General considered Mrs Ms complaint but maintained that Mr P ought to have 
told it that hed been diagnosed with PKD before applying for cover. It explained that while 
Mr P had given it consent to obtain his medical records, it had been given no reason to seek 
medical evidence as Mr P had declared his last blood pressure reading was normal to low, 
which was acceptable to it. It said the letter asking for Mr Ps consent made clear that it may 
not need to seek further medical evidence, as was the case for Mr Ps application. It 
acknowledged that Mrs M believed Mr Ps death was unrelated to his diagnosis with PKD, 
but it noted that there can be a link between the two conditions. Legal and General also said 
even if there were no link between the conditions, the relevant issue was whether it would 
ever have offered insurance. And Legal and General said it wouldnt have.  It considered that 
Mr Ps misrepresentation should be considered deliberate or reckless under the ruling 
legislation  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
 and as such it was entitled to avoid the contract and refuse any claims. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He concluded Legal and General had acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with CIDRA.  
Mrs M disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. She noted that Mr P had another policy with Legal and General which had 
successfully paid out. She said Mr Ps answer to the relevant question was out of character 
but suggested this may have been due to anxiety and mental health problems that were 
diagnosed soon after the policy was taken out. She questioned why, if Mr P wanted to 
deliberately hide his condition, hed have consented to Legal and General obtaining his 
medical records. She also complained that Legal and General had taken a year to reach a 
decision on the claim, which had caused her a lot of uncertainty and inconvenience. She 
also complained its communication with her had been poor. 
As Mrs M disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
Legal and General advised us that Mrs M had not previously complained about the delays or 
its communication. It said this would need to be raised as a new complaint so it could fully 
investigate her concerns. A separate complaint has now been started. As such I wont 
comment on the time taken to reach a conclusion on the claim or the way Legal and General 
communicated with Mrs M as part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as 
our investigator. I know this isnt the answer Mrs M was hoping for. But Id like to reassure 
her that I havent taken this decision lightly. Ive carefully considered the circumstances of 
this complaint, taking into account the relevant legislation, and what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Before I go on, Id like to offer Mrs M and her family my condolences for their tragic and 
unexpected loss. I appreciate this complaint has arisen from some very difficult 
circumstances, and I dont underestimate the emotional toll it has taken on her and her 
family. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered CIDRA, which mirrors this services longstanding 
approach to complaints like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer 
when entering into a consumer insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a 
duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue 
or misleading). Whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is to be determined in the 
light of all the relevant circumstances  this may include how clear and specific the insurers 
questions were as well as the consumers knowledge and understanding at the time. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
When Mr P applied for cover, he was presented with the following warning:
Important Customer Information
You must answer the application questions truthfully and accurately. This is to help 
ensure Legal & General can pay valid claims.
When answering the health questions, he was also advised about the importance of full 
disclosure, and was advised if he was unsure whether to tell us about a medical condition, 
please tell us anyway.
In the declaration section, which Mr P agreed to, it states:
The information given in this application has been provided truthfully and accurately 
[]I am aware that the information provided will form part of the legal relationship 
between us and if any of it is found to be incorrect it may mean that a claim is not 
paid or the policy(ies) is amended or cancelled. 
Mr P was also later provided with a copy of the questions and answers hed provided. He 
was given the opportunity to check his details were correct. He was reminded of his duty to 
answer the questions fully and accurately: 
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may 
mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. In the event of a claim 
we may request a report from your doctor to support your application answers. Please tell us 
straight away if you need to change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please 
read the 'personal details' document carefully.
In light of the various warnings given, Im satisfied Legal and General did enough to draw 
Mr Ps attention to the importance of answering all questions fully and accurately, and the 
potential consequences if he didnt do so. 
As part of the application, Mr P was asked questions about his health in the last five years 
which included:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or health professional for:
any condition affecting your kidneys, bladder or prostate, for example blood or 
protein in the urine, kidney or bladder stones?
Mr P answered no. But his medical records show hed been diagnosed with PKD in 2013, 
been under the care of a renal unit and had attended multiple hospital appointments 
regarding it. The most recent appointment took place in September 2017, where Mr P 
discussed his condition. It was noted by the attending consultant nephrologist that Mr P was 
disappointed that his kidney function had continued to decline and also that Mr Ps kidney 
function [was] unfortunately likely to progress further in the future. As Mr P had seen 
medical professionals about a condition affecting his kidneys on multiple occasions in the 
five years before application, and as recently as a month prior to applying for cover, he 
should reasonably have told Legal and General about this in response to the clear question 
asked. 
Mr P was also asked:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that; 
youre are waiting to be seen at or attending hospital for?
Again, Mr P answered no to this question. But his medical records show hed attended a 
hospital renal unit in September 2017 and was told he was due to be reviewed in three 
months time (December 2017). So, he was also waiting to be seen at a hospital. I think Mr P 
therefore had a second opportunity to disclose his relevant medical history, and I think he 
ought reasonably to have done so. 
I appreciate Mrs M is keen to stress that Mr P was honest and sincere, and that his answers 
to the relevant application questions was out of character. Ive carefully considered her 
suggestion that his answers may have been due to him suffering anxiety and other mental 
health issues. But while I appreciate Mr P may have been struggling with his mental health at the time of applying, its not been demonstrated that this impacted his ability to understand 
the questions hed been asked, recall details about his health and medical history, or answer 
the questions accurately.
I note Mrs M has also questioned why Mr P would have given his consent to 
Legal and General requesting his medical records if he intended to hide something. While I 
understand her point and agree this could be a factor when classifying the misrepresentation 
(i.e. whether it should be considered deliberate or reckless, or careless), its important to 
note that under CIDRA the responsibility was on Mr P to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. That meant he was required to answer questions fully and accurately. It 
wouldnt be reasonable for him to omit an answer in the belief that Legal and General would 
discover the information in another way.  
So overall, while we sadly cant know Mr Ps reasons for answering the application questions 
in the way he did, I think Legal and General was entitled to conclude that hed failed in his 
duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  
What would Legal and General have done differently?
Where its shown that a consumer has made a misrepresentation, CIDRA provides certain 
remedies to the insurer provided the misrepresentation was qualifying. To be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer needs to demonstrate that, had it known the misrepresented 
information, it wouldnt have entered into the contract or would have done so on different 
terms. 
Legal and General has demonstrated, with relevant underwriting evidence, that had Mr P 
told it hed been diagnosed with PKD it wouldnt have offered him any cover. This means 
that the policy would never have been put in place. 
Legal and General classified Mr Ps misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. This 
means, under CIDRA, it would be entitled to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and retain the 
premiums. Whereas if the misrepresentation was classified as careless, Legal and General 
would still be entitled to avoid the policy and refuse the claim, but they would be expected to 
refund the premiums. As the premiums have been refunded, the estate of Mr P has received 
the most favourable outcome irrespective of how the misrepresentation was classified. I 
therefore think this is fair and I dont consider Legal and General must do anything further. 
In summary, whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms strength of feeling, Im satisfied Legal and General 
was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in 
effect  the policy never existed, Legal and General does not have to deal with any claim 
under it. So, overall, I think its decision in this case was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman