DRN-2745215
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) failed to tell him hed missed a payment and 
recorded the missed payment to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr I, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Mr I says he wasnt aware hed missed a payment towards his agreement that was due in 
January 2020. Hes explained that as soon as he became aware of that, in October of that 
year, he paid. 
I am required to decide if Lex were reasonable when reporting the missed payment to Mr Is 
credit file. 
Lex say they informed Mr I and Mr I says they didnt. As the information Ive got is 
contradictory I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Im persuaded that there is more evidence Mr I should reasonably have been aware of this 
missed payment than not. I say that because:
Lex have provided a copy of their contact notes and those notes explain that letters 
were sent to Mr I in February, March and September 2020 to remind him the 
payment due in January 2020 hadnt been received;
those notes also show that an email was sent asking him to contact Lex to discuss 
his account on 12 February 2020. I think its reasonable to suggest that was in 
relation to the arrears as there appears no other reason in the contact notes for the 
email.
Ive seen copies of the letters and email Lex sent. The addresses are the same as 
those we have on file for Mr I and Im therefore persuaded that they are most likely to 
have been dispatched;
I think its likely Mr I would have been aware of payments leaving his account and 
would have been more likely than not to notice if a payment to Lex had been missed. 
I think its fair to say he had a responsibility to ensure payments were made on time 
and if they werent Lex have a responsibility to record account activity accurately to 
the credit reference agencies.
I understand Mr Is frustration but Im afraid Im persuaded that Lex have behaved 
reasonably here and it wouldnt be fair to ask them to remove the reports they made to the 
credit reference agencies.
I understand that since this complaint has been submitted Mr I has also raised concerns 
about unauthorised and excessive payments being taken by Lex since his agreement ended. 
I can see that Lex have now provided their final response on that matter. If Mr I is unhappy 
with that decision he can refer it to this service but its not something Ive considered here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman