DRN-3394759
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited in respect of 
a settlement it paid to him when his car was damaged beyond repair by flooding.
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged and he claimed from Admiral. Admiral said it would pay Mr H the 
market value for his car, which it deemed to be £8,790. Mr H said he couldnt replace his car 
for that amount  he asked it to pay him around £1,000 more. Admiral wouldnt agree to that 
so Mr H complained to us.
Our Investigator noted that Admiral had consulted two trade guides before determining the 
market value for Mr Hs car. He also noted that Admirals settlement was based on the 
highest of the two values returned. He thought that was fair.
Mr H disagreed with our Investigators findings. He said he was concerned that trade guides 
arent something he has access to, or give values he would be able to benefit from (being for 
the trade and likely adding profit). Mr H maintained he has no way to buy a car, like the one 
he had, for the price set by Admiral. And that is despite the fact the policy promises to cover, 
he says, the purchase price of an equivalent vehicle. His complaint was passed for 
consideration by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H is frustrated and feels he has lost out due to the settlement figure 
Admiral has paid. But having considered the circumstances, I dont think Admiral has done 
anything wrong. Ill explain.
Admiral provides cover for Mr H and his car. The policy explains that Admiral will cover Mr H 
for damage caused to his car either by paying to repair the car or settling for the replacement 
cost of the car. And where Admiral decides to do the latter, the policy explains that 
settlement will be based on the cars market value at the time of the loss. The policy also 
defines what Admiral means by market value:
The cost of replacing your car with a similar make, model, year mileage and condition 
based on market prices at the time of the loss.
This service has a longstanding approach to assessing what a fair market value for a car is. 
We consider that reference to figures set out in trade guides is a fair way to determine the 
likely value of a car. The trade guides do not just refer to trade sales as Mr H has indicated 
he is concerned about. And his not having access to them doesnt mean Admiral cant fairly 
rely on them as they arent a method in themselves via which cars can actually be bought 
and sold. Rather the guides collect details of sales and by so doing can generate reasonably 
accurate data about the value of cars for sale in the general marketplace. 
I see that, on this occasion, Admiral consulted two trade guides. And it chose to settle Mr Hs 
claim based on the higher of the two figures returned. Im satisfied that value took into 
account the extras Mr H had on his car, although no specific additional sum was attributed to 
them. But as our Investigator explained, adding extras to a car, whilst sometimes increasing 
its re-saleability, doesnt necessarily improve its market value.  
Whilst I understand that Mr H hasnt yet been able to find a replacement car for the 
settlement value paid by Admiral, I am satisfied that value was determined fairly and 
reasonably. So Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint that Admiral should pay him more in 
settlement of his claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman