DRN-2835327
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent him an email to advise it 
intended to reduce the credit limit on his credit card. 
What happened
In September 2020 RBS sent Mr J an email to advise it intended to reduce the credit limit on 
his credit card. Mr J was concerned about whether the email was genuine so spoke with 
RBS via an online chat facility. Mr J was advised not to open the email or click on the link by 
the advisor he was speaking with via the chat facility. 
Mr J complained and said that the information he was sent by RBS was confidential and 
shouldve been sent by post or secure email. Mr J had concerns over the use of a link in 
RBS email. Mr J also said RBS couldve used its own secure messaging systems. RBS 
looked at Mr Js complaint and said the advisor hed spoken with via the chat facility had 
incorrectly told him not to open the email or click the link. RBS apologised and paid Mr J £30 
for the mistake. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
RBS had acted in line with its policy for contacting customers about their account and had 
dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly. Mr J asked to appeal and said the business approach to 
sending information about his credit card compromised the level of privacy to which the 
online banking procedure entitles him. As Mr J and the investigator didnt agree, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr J for the level of detail hes included in his submissions to us. I can see 
Mr J is concerned that RBS email compromised the level of privacy he believes the bank 
should offer. Ive read and considered everything Mr J has sent us. Ive considered all the 
points Mr J as made. My response and decision will focus on what I feel are the key aspects 
of the case and scope of our service. If I havent specifically referred to a point Mr J raised it 
doesnt mean I havent taken it into account. 
RBS privacy notice sets out how it can contact customers. Section 10 Communications 
about your account says We will contact you with information relevant to the operation and 
maintenance of your accountby a variety of means including via online banking, mobile 
banking, email, text message, post and/or telephone RBS privacy notice confirms one of 
the options available to notify Mr J about a change in the operation of his credit card was to 
send him an email  which is what happened in this case. Im satisfied RBS has acted in line 
with its policy on communicating with customers. 
Mr J says his confidentiality has been breached. But the email contained the last four digits 
of the credit card number, Mr Js first name, the amount the credit limit would be reduced to 
and the date the reduction would take place. The email later confirmed the existing credit 
limit. I also note the email was sent to an email address Mr J had registered with RBS and 
hes confirmed it was received by him. I havent seen any evidence that shows confidential 
information was share with an unauthorised third party because RBS chose to email Mr J 
about its decision to reduce his credit limit. 
As our investigator has said, we dont set the rules for how business handle data and 
information or communicate with customers. Ive considered Mr Js complaint on the basis of 
whether RBS actions led to a loss, if confidential information was shared with an 
unauthorised third party or whether it failed to follow its policies and procedures concerning 
how it communicates with customers. Having done so, I havent found that RBS made a 
mistake or treated Mr J unfairly. 
When Mr J contacted RBS about the email an online chat advisor told him not to open it or 
click the link. RBS has apologised for this information as the email was genuine. I can see 
RBS paid Mr J £30 to apologise for its error and Im satisfied thats a fair approach. Mr J also 
says he was expecting further contact about the issue but instead received notice his 
complaint was resolved. Whilst I understand Mr J wanted more answers from RBS, I can see 
it responded to his concerns and gave referral rights for this service. I havent found Mr J 
was treated unfairly in this case.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman