DRN-3811409
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that ReAssure Limited has stopped paying a claim she made on a 
mortgage payment protection plan.
What happened
Miss B has an insurance policy which is designed to cover her monthly mortgage 
repayments if she is unable to work because shes ill. Miss B successfully claimed on the 
policy and was receiving the monthly benefit.
In 2021 ReAssure reviewed the claim and carried out a functional capacity assessment. 
They concluded Miss B no longer met the policy definition of incapacity, so they stopped 
making payments to her. Miss B complained but ReAssure maintained their decision was 
correct. Unhappy, Miss B complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He said 
ReAssure hadnt demonstrated Miss B no longer met the definition of incapacity. He thought 
that the functional capacity assessment showed Miss B was unable to carry out three of the 
required activities of daily living (walking, climbing and bending). So, he thought Miss B still 
met the relevant criteria for incapacity.
ReAssure didnt agree. They said there were two elements to the test relating to bending 
and Miss B must be unable to perform both elements to meet the definition.
In November 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to uphold Miss 
Bs complaint but for different reasons. I said: 
ReAssure accepted Miss Bs claim and so its for them to demonstrate that she no 
longer meets the definition of incapacity.
The policy terms say that Miss B will considered to be incapacitated if she is unable 
to perform three or more of the following as a direct result of an accident or illness or 
incapacity which has occurred after the policy date  walking, bending, 
communicating, reading, writing or climbing.
Each activity has a further definition. Under bending it says:
The ability to get into or out of a standard saloon car, and the ability to bend 
or kneel to pick up an object from the floor and straighten up again.
Its not in dispute that Miss B could carry out communicating, reading and writing. Its 
also not disputed that she could not carry out walking and climbing.
So, the claims decision turned on whether Miss B was unable to carry out the 
activities described as bending. ReAssure says Miss B must be unable to get in and 
out of a standard saloon car and unable to bend or kneel to pick an object off the 
floor and straighten up again.
The functional capability report, which was carried out remotely, says:
Miss B was not observed bending. She reported that if she tried to bend, she 
would be at significant risk of falling and if she knelt she would not be able to 
stand back up without the assistance of another person. Given that she was 
alone, an examination of this appeared inappropriate, and she politely 
declined.
Miss B reports she can bend at the waist enough to sit down into a chair or a 
saloon car however she is unable bend to pick items up off the floor or kneel 
down for reasons stated above. She reports she is unable to bend down to 
pick something up off the floor even from a sitting position which is why she 
needs to use her grab aid when dressing her lower half.
The report concluded:
Although she may be able to perform a particular activity or range of 
movement once, the overall evidence suggests that it is unlikely she would be 
able to do so repeatedly, reliably or safely Although she appears able to get 
in and out of a car independently, she is unable to pick something up from the 
floor level.
I dont think it was fair and reasonable for ReAssure to terminate the claim. I say that 
because:
The claim was terminated because Miss B said she could sit in a car. I dont 
think the conclusion Miss B could get in and out of the car fairly reflects the 
overall evidence in the report.
The report says Miss B reported she can bend at the waist enough to sit 
down into a chair or a saloon car. But Miss B also said she could get herself 
into and out of the car using her stick and the car to hold onto. I also note that 
whenever she needed to sit in a car shed be accompanied by a friend. So, I 
dont think its fair to say Miss B could independently get in and out of the car.
I also think its important to bear in mind the wider evidence referenced within 
the report. Miss B was taking a significant amount of pain relief, has 
considerable adaptations to assist her day to day living (including an 
electronic hoist for her bathroom) and is registered as disabled. And, the 
report also noted that whilst she may be able to perform a particular activity or 
range of movement once that it was unlikely shed be able to do so 
repeatedly, reliably or safely.
I think ReAssure could have done more to explore Miss Bs ability to get in 
and out of a car before stopping the payments on this basis alone. The 
conclusions in the report dont fairly reflect the totality of the evidence. And I 
think it would have been reasonable for ReAssure to question this further 
before stopping payments. 
I dont think it was fair and reasonable to conclude Miss B could get in and out 
of a car based on the description she gave in the report and the wider medical 
evidence. So, I dont think it was fair for ReAssure to say that she didnt meet 
the definition of incapacity on that basis. I think the medical evidence 
indicates it is most likely that she couldnt perform three of the activities set 
out in the policy  walking, climbing and bending.Putting things right
ReAssure needs to put things right by:
Reinstating the claim and covering all of the missed payments since the 
claim was terminated
Refunding Miss B the premiums shes paid since the claim was 
terminated (as Miss B didnt need to pay premiums when a valid claim 
was made)
Paying 8% simple interest per year on all the payments from the date the 
claim was stopped until the date of settlement.
If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Miss B said that she didnt have any further comments to make or evidence to submit. 
ReAssure didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss B and ReAssure didnt make any further comments or submit any further evidence 
theres no reason for me to reach a different decision to my provisional decision. 
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above and in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
ReAssure needs to put things right by:
Reinstating the claim and covering all of the missed payments since the claim was 
terminated
Refunding Miss B the premiums shes paid since the claim was terminated (as Miss 
B didnt need to pay premiums when a valid claim was made)
Paying 8% simple interest per year on all the payments from the date the claim was 
stopped until the date of settlement.
If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about ReAssure Limited and directing it to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman